on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the draft resolution of the european parliament on the implementation of the european arrest warrant and extradition procedures between member states, which is being discussed, does not raise any major doubts and its content focuses on suggestions addressed to both the european commission and the member states on improving the eio procedures and their even more effective application. the resolution also called for a cross-cutting analysis of mutual recognition instruments to prevent divergences and ensure coordination. a holistic approach to the entire system of mutual recognition in criminal matters is essential to ensure its coherence, as has been repeatedly stressed. however, in the light of the generally positive assessment of the ena contained in the first part of the resolution, the suggestions to consider changes to the decision, mainly with regard to the waiver of the double criminality test, seem not entirely reasonable and incomprehensible. the more appropriate way to improve the application of the epc is also to refer repeatedly in the draft resolution to soft law measures such as procedural manuals or recommendations and to focus on the practical aspects of the functioning of the instrument, including, in particular, the continuous training and upgrading of the competences of persons who use the instruments of the union's criminal law in their professional practice.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the strengthening of the common area of freedom, security and justice in the european union cannot be achieved without improving the implementation of the european arrest warrant, one of the main instruments in the fight against serious crossborder crime. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to give a ruling on the question of the legality of the use of the term 'defendant' in criminal proceedings. the current pandemic has also highlighted the central role played by digitalisation in judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the timely transposition and application of the framework decision on the emj and the procedural guarantees directives, taking into account the case law of the court of justice of the european union, are therefore a duty of the member states and are indispensable to ensure that perpetrators of crimes are brought to justice in compliance with fundamental rights and the rule of law, and to increase mutual trust in national criminal justice systems.
madam president! the european arrest warrant is the cornerstone of judicial cooperation in the european union and is based on mutual trust, trust in the rule of law. in 2018, an irish judge refused to enforce a warrant issued in poland. the reason? the rule of law is under threat in poland. the fight for the systemic rule of law has thus been extended to the ordinary courts of the union. it is good that there are more and more of us in this fight, but it also proves that the eu institutions are not doing enough. polish judge igor tuleya has been talking about it with great sadness lately. the erosion of the rule of law is destroying cooperation in the european arrest warrant, it is destroying trust in the european project, which is now very high, but it is not a given once and for all. the citizens of the union did not deserve to see the institutions do too little. it is about their rights, about the guarantee of those rights, and so i say to the commission, to the council, to all of us: it is time to act. now or it's too late.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i agree with you: the internal market is the heart of the european union and european politics. the british are now learning the pain of not being part of this single market. i also find it very, very unfortunate that they're not anymore. the freedom to provide services is one of the most important parts of this internal market. it can only be accompanied by a well-thought-out free movement of people within the european union. it is a matter of cooperation, and it is something we want to promote and must continue to promote. yeah, that's a good thing to do. the european parliament has once again set out very clearly in its resolution the signs of this freedom to provide services. the european parliament is very clear about the mutual recognition of professional qualifications, a recognition based on quality, on clear criteria, which have also been drawn up. the european parliament is also very clear about the basic principle of the services directive, namely the destination country principle. because the law of the state in which the work is done must be respected. we do not want social dumping, we do not want the social systems of the member states to be at odds with one another, but rather to work together and to improve the rights of citizens, whether it be social rights, consumer protection, environmental protection, climate protection and all these issues which are so close to our hearts. we are also very clear about the protection of services of general economic interest, also known in germany as social security. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. and finally, yes, it is very important that european law is implemented and implemented well.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the european union's efforts to deepen the free flow of services, which will increase europe's sovereignty and competitiveness, especially now, after the experience of the coronavirus epidemic, should be an absolute priority for us. as the initiator of the subject of the report which is the subject of today's debate, in the absence of any significant initiatives in this area as set out in the european commission's priorities at the beginning of this term, i would like to congratulate mr løkkegaard on a very good report. the report addresses a number of very important issues that we are facing in the european market. not only was the importance of the services sector to the european economy recognised, but also the losses suffered by the community due to existing barriers and the limited implementation of the rules by the member states. the development of disruptive technologies in europe is significantly hampered by the fragmentation of the eu services market. i therefore welcome the fact that the final text stresses the urgent need to create an efficient services market, which should be one of the priorities in the fight against the effects of the covid-19 pandemic. they are also crucial for an effective industrial policy and for increasing the competitiveness of enterprises. i hope that the proposed solutions will help to remove unjustified barriers to the free movement of services. we must constantly strive to support small and medium-sized enterprises and their cross-border activities. i hope that the report will guide the european commission for the remainder of its mandate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the corona crisis has - it has already been said - shown, particularly in the border regions of europe from which i come, how important the european single market is for people to meet and also to work in their professional activities on the other side of the border. the services directive, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, has been in place since 2006. it was adopted jointly by the council and parliament. the fact that the member states are now trying to repeatedly overturn certain provisions of the services directive is rightly causing citizens in the border area to take issue with the european union. three quarters of the european union's economic output is made up of services. and, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to get out of the crisis, we need this european single market, and service providers will be able to make a very important contribution to this. we should make use of this contribution, ladies and gentlemen. they can be cultural workers, they can be architects, there are many nurses or dentists. there are a number of activities which are now expected to play an important role in the single market and in europe in order to increase growth. and this growth should be possible not against the member states, but with the member states. i hope that the report will receive a great deal of support in this respect.
i have to say, madam president, i also thank you for a good debate on this report on the free movement of services. the socialist group believes that the single market is the motor of european cooperation and that, of course, for it to work, there must also be some form of free movement, including for services. but this will only work if we ensure that free movement goes hand in hand with fairness. in the report we are discussing today - the løkkegård report - we social democrats have achieved a much better balance between freedom of movement and fairness. and that is why we support the report. let me highlight a few of the things we think are really good about the report: firstly, with the report we are sending a very clear signal to the commission that we do not want an e-service card. so we support the decision to withdraw it. we don't want that. we do not believe that this will create a fair internal market. secondly, i also think it is very important that we ensure fairness for workers, and that is why it is good that we are putting emphasis on the european labour authority being fully operational, and we are putting pressure on that. the third point, which i also think is important, is that we should focus on developing a european social security number so that we can strengthen the legal security of our workers and fight social fraud more effectively. all this is a prerequisite for a fair internal market in services. we must ensure that freedom of movement goes hand in hand with a fairness around it. and then, of course, it is also enormously important that we protect all the special services that are in the public sector - the public tasks of health and education, for example. it should not be subject to the ordinary classical freedom of movement. we believe that we have ensured that in this report. that is why we support it.
i'm not going to tell you. ladies and gentlemen, it is the corona crisis that shows us the importance of the european single market. today, many companies that have lost the ability to do business in their home country can find customers in other countries in the common market. this is particularly true of the services sector, which accounts for up to 70% of european gdp and a similar share of employment. we have been talking about completing the single market for a long time. i myself, including as president of sme europe, have contributed with several proposals. i want to highlight three areas today. first, there are still serious obstacles to the common market, which prevent small businesses in particular from taking advantage of it. for example, the lack of translations of rules and legislation into national languages is cited by as many as 36 per cent of small businesses as a barrier. secondly, while progress has been made in the area of recognition of qualifications, there is still a need to improve the comparability of levels of professional qualifications, in particular because of the mutual recognition of training and experience in the service sector. thirdly, the evaluation process of the european semester should also be used to strengthen the common market. the removal of barriers in the area of services should therefore be part of regular country-specific recommendations. the report presented is useful, it identifies many obstacles and i believe that this report too can contribute to a more intensive work in promoting entrepreneurship and completing the common market, especially in the field of services.
madam president, we have been insisting for years on the need for a seamless internal market in services, unlocking the benefits for businesses and consumers. today, this objective has become an urgent one. in the face of the crisis, the completion of a europe of services goes hand in hand with the continent's recovery. we have voted measures that were previously unthinkable to respond to the crisis. so, ladies and gentlemen, is it unthinkable to achieve a genuine european market for services today? i do not think so, because, yes, today there is an urgent need to act also for the ecological transition and for the digital transition. the report by mr løkkegaard makes this very clear. it is time to deepen our single market for services, it is time to put an end to unjustified barriers. to this end, we must make full use of the tools at our disposal, accelerated infringement procedures - and i am referring to the commission here - performance tools, such as the internal market scoreboard or the solvit service. because today, dear colleagues, we no longer have time to make excuses: it is time to act.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is constantly making mistakes and falling into outdated ideological orientations, and this report we are discussing today is a caricature of that. however, the pandemic has demonstrated the importance of controlling our borders, our supply chains, our short circuits and regaining sovereignty in strategic areas. and what does the report say? quite the opposite. he calls for the establishment of foreign companies to be facilitated, says that reopening borders is the priority and fanatically rejects any idea of localism. on the other hand, the pandemic has revealed that liberalism, globalism, has allowed big business to off-shore their operations in countries with the most despicable social conditions. and what does the report say? instead of remedying it, he throws himself into even more complete freedom of movement. finally, the pandemic has shown that it is essential to maintain the right of the state to intervene in the economy. and what does the report say about that? it called this right illegitimate and called for the abandonment of safeguards in the public interest, which it described as unjustified. so, ladies and gentlemen, the spectacle would not be complete without one final horror: the inclusion of each state in a table of performance in terms of freedom of movement, with annual objectives for the removal of obstacles under the supervision and control of the european commission. as if states were small employees evaluated by their boss on their performance. well, we reject that organization. we reject this catastrophic world organization and the damage it causes. we must abandon these dogmatic fantasies based on the abstract ideology of pure freedom. it is urgent to build a national society, humane, resilient, protective of our economies and the social conditions of our workers.
madam president! one of the fundamental values of the treaty on the functioning of the european union is the freedom to provide and to move services within the common market. this freedom, together with the freedom of establishment, guarantees mobility and facilitates the functioning of businesses within the european union. strengthening the services market will bring tangible benefits to all member states, and the gradual elimination of barriers in this area must become a priority for the coming years. we must effectively combat restrictions and behaviour which discriminate against a service provider on the basis of its origin or the place where the company is established. such unfair practices affect not only the service provider but also, and above all, the recipients. additional certification requirements, frequent and excessive controls are just a few examples of the inappropriate treatment of polish companies providing services in the common market. restrictions on freedom to provide services do not lead to a level playing field in the union, but on the contrary to a perpetuation of inequalities. we should change that.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the archdefender of the internal market, we have been talking for 25 years about improving the internal market, because that is the most important thing the european union has achieved. i agree with that. a free market, which must exist, because it creates additional wealth, can never be a reason for social injustice. and yet we see them happening all the time. we also see that the internal market is not functioning or not functioning sufficiently. i call on the member states to give the european commission greater scope in the council to improve the internal market and to ensure that abuses do not occur. since january 1st, we have brexit. we know that the english economy is mainly a service economy. the united kingdom is no longer a member of the single market and should not therefore be given the same opportunities as the countries that are members and contribute to all that the european union represents. i hope that the memorandum of understanding which will be signed shortly will leave open the door and make a clear distinction between the countries which are members of the european union and those which are third countries or are not members of the european union. i call on the commission, and i call on everyone, to ensure that europe first is always an important starting point for that single market and that the european commission is eventually given real powers to intervene, to improve that single market and to prevent social misconduct.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen, i've been listening to you for a long time, and i've been wondering how you can look in the mirror. because you come here to the podium and say that we need more of a single market. and then you go back to your cabinets and you pass a mobility package that restricts the single market just because the countries of old europe have done better, the companies of old europe have done better than those of new europe. you come here and say that we must treat workers in the single market with solidarity, and then you go back to your offices and pass the directive on posted workers, restricting those opportunities to workers because workers from the old countries are doing better than workers from the new countries. tomorrow, we'll have a debate here, where you'll say, "we can't let putin arrest navalny!" and then you'll go back to your offices and sign nord stream ii. it's time for you to put your words in line with your actions.
mr president, commissioner, it is very curious that two years before the commission reviews the operation of the common fisheries policy, without giving itself time to make a rigorous assessment of whether or not the decisions are effective, there are already groups proposing revolutionary and sophisticated objectives, clearly dissociating legislation from reality. if we legislate without a solid basis, without scientific criteria and without discussing it with the actors involved, we will have failed. and that's what's happening right now. we have not yet fully implemented the concept of 'maximum sustainable yield', and there are already those who want to change it to 'maximum economic yield', without any scientific basis. protecting is good. i strongly support it. i am not against marine protected areas, but we distinguish between tools and targets. marine protected areas are a tool, not a target. activities in an area cannot be limited without first assessing the conservation objectives of that area and their consequences. nor can certain fishing techniques and practices be criminalised a priori. it's okay to demonize fishermen. it's okay to accuse them of being the cause of all the evil. fishermen are the greatest protectors of the seas and biodiversity, not some politicians and radicals who only look in one direction. we all want more fish in the sea and that is why the main proposals in this text need a thorough review.
member of the commission. – mr president, i welcome the interest of this house for the very important issues of sustainable fisheries and marine environmental protection and i have carefully listened to your interventions. and yes, i cannot stress it often enough as ms carvalhais stated, that strengthening scientific coverage and control will be key. replying to mr ruissen and mato, as regards the concept of maximum economic health, i’ve already mentioned it in my introductory remarks that our first ambition of course should be to properly implement the maximum sustainable yield, which is at the moment our current legal obligation and of course top priority. and let me say that i particularly welcome also the involvement of the members of the environment committee in this debate the issue we discussed tonight is so cross-cutting that we need to ensure close cooperation between fisheries and environmental communities experts to ensure the necessary coherence and credibility of our actions and policies. apart from a lot of support and ambition, i also heard some of you raising concerns in particular about having 30% of europe’s seas covered by marine protected areas, of which 10% will be strictly protected. let me reassure you that i fully understand that you want to ensure that our fishermen and women can fully benefit from marine resources, in particular in the current economic context of the global pandemic and the challenges several member states face in the aftermath of brexit. and let me be very clear, so do i. however, it is precisely our fishermen who will be the first to benefit from more abundant fish stocks in the areas around those marine protected areas. there are very concrete success stories of fishermen and women with increased income around well-functioning mpas, such as the columbretes area in spain, the torre guaceto area in italy and the jabuka/pomo pit in the adriatic sea. these positive examples should encourage us all. honourable members, i hope that the final report as it will be voted on thursday will underpin our common efforts under the european green deal and the biodiversity strategy for 2030, in line with the resolutions of the european parliament of january 2020 on the european green deal and on the 15th conference of parties of the convention on biological biodiversity. all the issues raised in this report will be very valuable input for the preparation of our report on the implementation of the common fisheries policy, due too for the end of 2022, as well as for the first report on the technical measures regulation and for the action plan to conserve fishery resources and protect marine ecosystems, as announced at biodiversity strategy for 2030.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 21 january 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. article 13 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union clearly indicates that animals are sentient beings. this fact must therefore be taken into account in the formulation and implementation of union policies, including, inter alia, agricultural, fisheries and transport policies. the presence of such rules in one of the legal acts laying down the basis for the functioning of the eu would make it possible to assume that the protection of animals from suffering is one of the community's priorities. unfortunately, the legal protection of animals, including farmed animals, in the european union still leaves much to be desired, and fish and other aquatic animals are perhaps the most striking example of this. since the beginning of my mandate, i have stressed the need to introduce appropriate legal protection standards covering all animals, including aquatic animals. i therefore supported the amendments prepared by the gue, which stress the need to regulate such fundamental issues as more humane methods of fishing and killing fish. we also call for the legal protection of marine invertebrates, including crabs and lobsters, which are still commonly prepared for consumption by putting live animals into a pot. if the eu's ambition to improve the welfare of farmed animals is not just an empty declaration, changes must be made to the situation of all animals, including those that have been often and unjustifiably overlooked, namely aquatic animals.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the decision to establish a union strategy for vaccination and to organise joint procurement was a good one. the voices that are being heard in the context of the global covid strategy are mainly concerns about too slow implementation of vaccines, the risk of delayed delivery of the vaccine, issues of contracts, procurement, transparency. from a medical perspective, none of this is a ticket out of a pandemic. despite the clear importance of the issues in this debate, parliament should not forget the patient. in the coronavirus era, care must be taken to ensure that pharmacological treatments are systematically updated, antibiotic recommendations are considered, and the age-related impact of cardiovascular disease and covid risk factors is determined. take care to use geosocial gradients to seek to mitigate social and ethnic differences in the population, thereby reducing covid. particular attention should now be paid to monitoring emerging cases of re-infection and infection during the transition between the first and second doses of vaccine, and in particular to support patient care through an appropriate information campaign. it is crucial that nurses, doctors, pharmacists and politicians are on the same side the patient side in implementing a multi-pronged strategy to fight the virus.
madam president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. on the one hand, it is a matter of satisfaction and joy that we have managed to reach an agreement and that we are jointly placing orders for the benefit of our citizens. on the other hand, there is a reality that is unrelenting, and which, if it does not change in the next few days and weeks, will undermine confidence in european solidarity. there is a lack of transparency here, but there should also be a demand that we demand transparency. and we demand answers to the questions: why, despite these joint agreements, do the germans have agreements outside our joint declaration, and that was when they were in office? it's particularly immoral and particularly should be stigmatized. and finally, the second question - i ask it systematically and get no answer: how is it possible to sign a contract with a company that has not declared in advance that it will carry out a reorganization and renovation in two months at the most critical moment? it's just a scandal, not a lack of responsibility. we demand, commissioner, that all answers be given within the next few hours, weeks.
in writing. the ten-t network is crucial for ensuring the economic, social and territorial cohesion and accessibility of the community's countries and regions, in particular those on the periphery and at the border, which, because of their difficult history, are much less well connected than their western partners. the action needed to achieve this should be the integration of the central communication port (as part of the core network of airports), the entire international road corridor via carpathia, selected sea ports and waterways and other infrastructure elements such as high-speed rail lines in the v4 region into the ten-t. poland supports the strengthening of the coherence between the national transport plans and the ten-t deployment strategy and the issues related to the revision of the eu ten-t guidelines are absolutely crucial for poland as well as for other countries, and in particular the visegrad group countries. it is necessary to provide the necessary financial resources for infrastructure investments both already undertaken and planned, also at eu level, as the financial resources of the member states may prove insufficient for this purpose. licensing and other administrative procedures should be adapted to the individual needs and conditions of the country concerned and should therefore be established at national rather than union level.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the humanitarian disaster in the migrant camps in bosnia and herzegovina and on the so-called atlantic route in west africa once again demonstrates the naïveté, stupidity and irresponsibility of the so-called open door policy of some european countries, led by germany. we all remember angela merkel's words: herzlich willkommen, which was addressed to illegal - i emphasize - illegal immigrants, not to any refugees. today, too, the tragedy of the people in the camps, and the tragedy of the situation in the countries outside, which are suffering the most from the consequences of this irresponsible policy, calls for the solidarity of all the member states. the aim of this assistance should be to secure our external borders even better and to continue to support frontex. we will not solve this situation without close cooperation with third countries in the maghreb region, the middle east and west africa. a good example is my country, poland, which has been providing enormous aid for years to the people and victims of conflicts, such as syria. the eu should help, not encourage, illegal immigration by indirectly supporting international criminal groups involved in human trafficking.
i am not sure you can make a point of order at this stage, ms björk. please submit it in writing, and we will proceed according to the rules.
member of the commission. – madam president, this has been a very interesting debate. i started my intervention by talking about values and i think that this debate has clearly shown that this is about values and fundamental rights. i would like to comment on some borders that i didn’t mention in my first intervention. first, on the canary islands, there is a very severe situation. last year, we saw an increase of 1 000% of irregular arrivals on the canary islands. this is of course a very difficult situation. that’s why the commission has been providing extra money. we have been providing personnel from our agencies. somebody asked for frontex to be there. frontex are on the canary islands and they are happy to help the spanish authorities with whatever kind of help they need. it’s also important to address their routes. this is absolutely one of the most deadly routes to the european union and we don’t actually know how many lives have been lost on this route. i think that was rightly pointed out by mr lópez aguilar. i have of course been to the canary islands, i have been to morocco and i’ve been to mauritania. we also need to work with our external partners to fight the human smugglers and to protect people’s lives. i was asked questions on how we work on the external aspect of migration. i will be happy to answer that in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) or in a special debate here in the plenary. we have done a lot, but there is also a lot more that we need to do. many of you also mentioned greece and the greek islands. we also have a serious situation there with a lot of problems still to be addressed, but i must also say that i reacted when i heard that nothing has happened for a year. one year ago, we had 42 000 migrants on the greek islands. now there are around 15 000 – still too many of course, but actually things have improved. we have relocated migrants to the mainland, to other member states, and we also have a programme for voluntary returns. the backlog on greece assessing their asylum applications is close to zero. this is good, but i’ll be the first to say that a lot more has to be done. we do not of course have a satisfactory situation, but it’s not fair to say that nothing has happened. many of you have asked for the sustainable regulations to deal with a proper way of managing migration. we have these proposals on the table and i hope the pact on migration and asylum can be adopted by both parliament and the council because we need that. the last thing i would like to say is that, when listening to this debate, i think it’s important to point out one thing. not everybody that wants to come to the european union has the right to come here or to stay here. we welcome those in need of international protection and we welcome those regular migrants that come to the european union, but let me make one thing crystal clear. we are talking about human beings. we are talking about people. all human beings have rights and dignity. even if they don’t have the right to stay in the european union, they have the right to be treated in line with their rights and their dignity. that is our obligation to our values and as human beings ourselves.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank you for this debate. the input coming from these discussions is important for us all to find answers to current challenges. there is no doubt that the situation in our external border must be addressed, and in an effective and timely manner. as i have already stressed, we are committed to improving migrants’ conditions, especially those of vulnerable groups. all the interventions coincide here today in the rejection of the dire situation where thousands of migrants and asylum seekers are living in our borders. this is not sustainable. we all worry about the fundamental and the humanitarian situation of migrants and refugees. this is what i’ve listened to in this noble assembly. but i also listened to very divisive lines, when it comes to the analysis of the problem, the causes of the situation and the solutions we find. unfortunately, it is also difficult to reach consensus at the council level. nevertheless, i would like to reiterate that the portuguese presidency will look, will continue to reach out for solutions: focusing on implementation, focusing on a comprehensive approach to migration, looking into external relations, the need to find partnerships with other countries, so that we can save lives, so that we can fight the smugglers. we will look into all these elements with the political will to try to find a consensus. we know that this is a european question, that needs a european coordinated response and we will continue to strive for solutions, always, always having in mind our basic fundamental values — these we need to respect.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in writing. it is regrettable that this debate has focused on the situation in bosnia and herzegovina, which should only raise one question: how to ensure the effective return of migrants who do not meet the criteria for asylum? this is not to deny the human tragedy that took place in this country this winter. just remember that, according to the very representative of the international organization for migration on the microphone of euronews in 2018, 85% of the people in these camps are actually economic migrants. a significant proportion of them are from pakistan, with allegations of visa trafficking also in the background. the bosnian representative of the tripartite presidency visited bosnia in november, confirming the scale of the problem. the european union is largely responsible for this tragedy, because of its inability to ensure effective protection of its external borders, and once again, its action seems to have been limited to pouring its humanitarian aid into wasted funds. the portuguese presidency's determination to complete enlargement to the western balkans will only exacerbate this irrepressible call for action.
in writing. the commission announced that it would provide an additional €3.5 million for humanitarian aid to refugees in difficulty in bosnia and herzegovina. refugees and migrants are left without shelter and support after the closure of the lippe centre. since 2018, eu funds for this purpose have totalled eur 13,8 million, and in total for capacity building in bih in the area of migration management over eur 88 million. despite the support for the third year in a row, we are facing a crisis. this country is identified as a potential candidate for eu membership, although the bih report states that bih is at an early stage of preparation in the field of consumer protection and public health. i would like to stress the need for further decisive action in the area of external border security, including with the involvement of frontex, and to underline the role of further cooperation with third countries in the fight against smuggling. how does the commission intend to create a clearer synergy between these initiatives and the additional aid granted, and thus channel it to include refugees in the healthcare programme, especially since bih has joined the eu agreement on joint procurement and received from the jrc covid-19 test control materials, as well as eur 7 million from eu funds for the purchase of urgently needed medical equipment?
in writing. i am pleased that we are once again discussing the humanitarian situation of refugees. this shows the importance which parliament attaches to this issue. although the subject was raised on several occasions, no concrete solutions were adopted. the migration crisis along the mediterranean route remains unresolved, and new situations emerge that require immediate action, such as the one in lipa. local authorities are blocking the relocation of refugees to the nearby town of bihac, where an eu-funded rehabilitation centre is located. the situation on the greek islands is also worrying. while the number of migrants has dropped from over 40,000 to 15,000, there is a lack of information about the conditions of refugees in the so-called moria ii camp on lesbos, which humanitarian workers are not allowed to enter. there's no way to document what's going on in the camp, and there's very little known about the epidemiological situation. this situation is not only in conflict with human rights but also with the dignity of the eu's actions and its importance. recent years have shown that the responsibility for managing migration cannot be entirely in the hands of individual countries. let us therefore ensure that the asylum and migration pact is based on a fair sharing of burdens and responsibilities between member states. let's also ensure that migrants have equal access to covid-19 vaccines in the eu.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. russia has done it again. russia has used chemical weapons against its own citizens again. so we have a crime. we ask ourselves, like dostoevsky, do we also have a punishment for this crime? as russia continues its repressive policies, both domestic and foreign, we rightly demand an international investigation involving the institutions that deal with the issue of chemical weapons exclusion. we must probably use the entire magnitsky act procedure to defend the opposition and activists. but is that enough? shouldn't we be demanding more sanctions, like the removal of swift's financial settlements, the freezing of bank assets, the exclusion of russian goods from our markets? these are expensive solutions, of course, but they are also less expensive. the costs must be borne by the russian society, the russian middle class the oligarchs, artists, athletes, scientists. shouldn't they be excluded from our lives, too? the oligarchs are not going to move their assets from london to beijing, the russian scientists are not going to leave harvard and go to african universities. russian celebrities will not give up shopping in paris for middle eastern bazaars, so russian society, or at least the part of it that supports putin, needs to know the costs of this imperial policy, needs to start paying the price of this policy. we must try different instruments to stop the imperialist drive of russia.
madam president! on behalf of the polish delegation of the po-psl, i would like to say that it is very important that the european parliament does not stand by and watch the unlawful arrest of alexei navalny. this is an important signal to all russians, as well as to citizens of the european union, who want a clear condemnation of the further violations of human rights, including political and civil rights, by the authoritarian government of russia. the european union has the instruments to respond to what happened on sunday, and these are arguments of force, because this is the language that vladimir putin understands. it's about tough economic and personnel sanctions. these economic ones should be extended by the council to the nord stream 2 project. we can count on transatlantic cooperation with the united states on this. the personnel ones should be about the russian oligarchs. as alexei navalny himself said when he was a guest of the european parliament's foreign affairs committee on november 27, 2020, russia will only fear eu sanctions if they threaten the richest and most involved in putin's interests oligarchs. moreover, such sanctions will be positively assessed by 99% of the russian public.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for their participation in this debate. the question is what is the timeline for the european union to continue addressing this matter further, in what fora and doing what. well, first of all, the arrest of navalny will be discussed in the relevant bodies in the council. we expect it to be raised in current affairs in the upcoming foreign affairs council on 25 january. we will continue to follow the situation closely and consider its implications. any further listings in sanctions, as some of you have proposed, are subject to a decision of the council by unanimity under the proposal of some member states. we have called, and will continue to call, on the russian authorities to investigate this crime thoroughly and transparently and to cooperate fully with the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons – russia has signed this treaty – and to ensure an international investigation. in calling for a joint response, the european union will do whatever it takes, including through restrictive measures if the member states consider them appropriate, and it will be discussed at the next foreign affairs council. some of you have raised the issue of the nord stream pipeline. well, you know the situation of nord stream 2. this is a project by a group of private firms. the commission has stated several times that it considers that this pipeline does not lead to diversifying the energy sources of the european union. this is one of the objectives of our energy union and this project is not in the framework of our objectives, but we cannot prevent the companies from building it if the german government agrees with that. should these companies finalise a pipeline, they should know that they will need to operate in line with european union law. but this is the most we can do at european union level. does the arrest of mr navalny have any other implications for european union relations more broadly? well, you know that our relations with russia are based on the five guiding principles, as reaffirmed by the european union foreign ministers on 12 october last year. as i explained after this council, the whole of the eu—russia relations cannot be reduced to the poisoning of mr navalny. we will respond swiftly and decisively to this poisoning, but we have other dimensions in our relations with russia that we need to continue to address, such as, for example, implementation of the minsk agreement. we maintain open channels of communication with russia to enhance engagement on issues of common interest. the five guiding principles approach gives this possibility in order to continue defending our interests and values, which certainly include respect for international law and fundamental rights. i think this is everything that i can say at the moment. let’s see what the member states decide to do and how the discussion at the next foreign affairs council goes in order to know what the next steps will be. in any case, we are putting on all political pressure in order to get mr navalny’s freedom and i will continue to do so through whatever ways and means that i consider appropriate.
i have received, pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure, two motions for resolutions*. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. * see minutes. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in writing. the arrest of alexei navalny is in clear violation of those obligations under international law. it is clear that there is systematic harassment, persecution and intimidation of political activists and the opposition in russia and that the european union must be strong and united in its response and sanctions policy. the sanctions should be extended to all those involved in the arrest and detention of navalny and his supporters. the council must continue to apply pressure on russia to investigate the attempted assassination of navalny and to hold the perpetrators accountable. navalny and all other persons detained for returning to russia must be released immediately and unconditionally.
in writing. sergei magnitsky died trying to expose a vast network of corruption reaching to the very top of the government. anna politkowska died because she was not afraid to expose the crimes of the regime. after the murder of boris nemtsov, putin's main opponent was alexei navalny, whom russian intelligence tried to poison using banned combat chemicals. in russia, eliminating enemies by assassination has become commonplace. the kremlin is unable to silence all voices of discontent. protests against corruption, deteriorating living conditions and lack of freedom have spread beyond the major cities of the european part of russia. support for putin has dropped to an all-time low. it is no wonder that in the run-up to the duma elections, the kremlin has taken a series of measures to ensure its continuation in power. one of them is the arrest of navalny. the west can no longer turn a blind eye. we call on the council to impose sanctions on russian oligarchs with ties to the regime. the eu should not be a friendly place for capital of unknown origin. those who benefit from the system putin has built - officials, businessmen, people of culture - cannot comfortably enjoy its fruits, hiding their wealth in the eu, buying luxury goods or educating their children. the height of hypocrisy remains the nord stream 2 project. his future is not just a signal of the state of the west. it's a red or green light for the putin regime's further oppression of the russian people and aggressive policies towards its neighbors.
in writing. we will not stand by and watch the unlawful arrest of alexei navalny. the reaction of the european parliament and the eu is an important signal to all russians, as well as to the citizens of the european union, who want to condemn further human rights violations by the authoritarian russian president and his subordinate services. the european union has the instruments to respond to what happened on sunday, and these are arguments of force, because this is the language that vladimir putin understands. it's about tough economic and personnel sanctions. the economic sanctions should be extended by the eu council to the nord stream 2 project. we can count on the cooperation of the united states on this. the personnel sanctions should be targeted at russian oligarchs. as alexei navalny himself said when he was a guest of the ep foreign affairs committee on november 27, 2020: fear of eu sanctions will only appear in russia when they threaten the richest and most involved in putin's interests oligarchs. moreover, such sanctions will be positively assessed by 99% of the russian public. i hope navalny is the face of the year in russia, and the democratic world stands in solidarity to defend him. and there's a chance that it could be because of the new president of the united states, joe biden. may alexei's courage in fighting for personal and political freedom be a symbol for russians and the entire eastern european region.
in writing. no eu member state should support the regime of vladimir putin, which is a symbol of violations of international law and human rights. the eu's inaction is accepting the occupation of the ukrainian crimea. poland has welcomed hundreds of thousands of refugees from ukraine, seeking peace and a chance for a better future. but the union is not doing anything to solve the problem. meanwhile, germany and other ec countries are building nord stream 2 with russia. the arrest of alexei navalny was another step in the wrong direction, a demonstration that the russian authorities can do anything and that they have no respect for any civilized standards. the european union's values are now being discredited, because unfortunately many member states are not behaving properly and are simply doing business. we'll pass more resolutions that russia doesn't care about. it's sad, you know?
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. thank you, mr. david mcallister, for an interesting report, quite positive, but i still feel we're talking about a yeti. everyone talks about it, but few have seen it, and few have seen the common foreign policy of the european union. we have the report, but is it a common policy or a solidarity policy? have we resolved any of the conflicts that surround us: russian-ukrainian, middle eastern, syrian, libyan? do we have a common position on china and taiwan? the recent agreement with china, which was forced upon us, shows that it represents in principle the interests of only a part of the union the richest and largest countries in the union. nord stream ii is also an icon of the lack of solidarity that lies at the bottom of the baltic sea. we managed to get britain out of the union together, but i think it's a shame. what are our recipes? strategic autonomy, an escape from transatlantic cooperation, from our obligations to nato, from the united states. but we have not been able to resolve many of the conflicts i mentioned for 30 years. it's not a recipe. is the recipe qualitative majority voting? nor does it mean that the security interests of many eu countries will be marginalised. the report also includes a reference to human rights. but this part is pretty weak, it doesn't mention any of the countries. if there are violations of fundamental rights, if there are tortures, if there are executions, we should not be afraid to point the finger and speak out. nor does the report deal with the persecution of christians. we believe this issue should be addressed and we call for support for the ecr amendments. we will abstain in the hope of a better report and better cooperation in the future.
madam president! the european union's foreign policy too often ends up in media propaganda and leaving the problem behind when it disappears from the front pages of the newspapers, or in the little-noticed resolutions of the european parliament, as exemplified by the reports being debated today. the union's empty words about the territorial integrity of ukraine or georgia and the deteriorating human rights situation in the russian federation have not come to fruition. the case of alexei navalny is the best example of this. we faced this problem in poland when, on 10 april 2010, a plane with the president and the entire military command of a member state on board crashed near smolensk, russia. where was the union then? another issue: the report on human rights and democracy in the world does not mention the rights of christians once, while the rights of lgbt people are mentioned 26 times. christians, on the other hand, are the most persecuted religious group in the world: 80% of religious persecution is directed against christians, and some of it falls under the definition of genocide. the union is doing nothing. that's a foreign policy and human rights thinking that you can't agree with.
madam president! the voice of the european union should be clearly heard wherever human dignity and human rights are at stake. meanwhile, the worsening human rights situation in the russian federation, belarus and the territories of georgia and ukraine outside the control of the authorities in kiev and tbilisi is a matter of concern. areas like abkhazia, ossetia, crimea have been in the zone of putin's russia for years, contrary to international law. what is the european union doing? i am debating again some interesting reports, but they have nothing to do with real politics. he's laughing here in this room, and he's mocking the former president of the united states, but he had what the spanish have a great term for, but for obvious reasons i'm not going to use that word to really oppose china or putin's russia. what are the eu and its officials doing in the meantime? they publish interesting resolutions, or, like germany, they build the second nord stream ii gas pipeline, in opposition to european solidarity, in opposition to energy solidarity, together with putin.
i'm closing the joint debate. the vote on the amendments will take place today. the final vote will take place on wednesday 20 january 2020. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
madam president! i would like to call on this chamber to make a sober and honest assessment of the situation in the united states and an honest assessment of president trump's policies. i think we're wrong to demonize the president. he didn't attack the capitol. we have faced numerous provocations. looking at european-american relations from the perspective of my part of central europe, the united states is a european power that has come to europe's aid many times in the 20th century. looking at the relationship with the united states during the presidency of donald trump, it should be mentioned that he strengthened these ties - military, energy, supporting the three seas issue. i'm just trying to be a sober judge of character. i believe that president biden will uphold the actions and commitments that have been made by president trump towards our part of europe.
in writing. one of the most important international events of recent times was the inauguration of joe biden as the 46th president of the united states, a country of great importance in terms of its common relations with the european union. we look forward to working closely with the new president to further strengthen both the polish-american strategic partnership and in many ways at the level of the european union. it is in our common interest to consolidate our strategic partnership in security and defence and to further develop our cooperation in the fields of economy, energy and energy security. europe and america need each other. given the role that the united states plays in the global political and economic system, i believe that we can and should focus on the most serious challenges and threats facing the international community today, especially in the management of the covid-19 pandemic and the reconstruction of economies, the promotion of human rights, and the fight against disinformation and false narratives. european defence initiatives should complement nato's capabilities, not replace them. all eu initiatives to enable cooperation with nato, especially with the united states, the united kingdom and norway, are therefore very important. it is in our common interest that the united states be strongly engaged in europe. i believe that we will continue our cooperation successfully in all new areas.
in writing. the term of the 46th president of the united states, joe biden, which begins today, is a hope for a new beginning. it's a new opening after the difficult years of the presidency of donald trump, who turned disinformation, fake news, division and exclusion into tools of political struggle. it's also a testament to the fact that democracy is resilient - resilient to hate and lies. but we can't be naive. this resistance, if overstretched, can end. history provides us with a wealth of evidence in this regard. democracy is something that you have to fight for every day, and you have to nurture every day. we cannot allow it to be attacked and weakened. the presidency of joe biden is the hope for the united states to return to the mainstream of international politics in a constructive, not destructive, role. for the european union and the world, america's strong constructive presence in international circles is of great importance. today also marks the first time a woman has ever been vice president of the united states. history is being written before our eyes. i have my fingers crossed for president biden and vice president harris. the united states deserves wise leadership.
in writing. the united states of america plays a key role in the global economic and political system. what happens there will sooner or later translate to much of the world. so we need to keep a close eye on the alarming situation in the united states. in the last few weeks, we have witnessed events that should not take place in a democratic state. i mean, like, voter fraud or internet censorship. here's the president of the united states, openly censored not only by the internet companies, twitter, facebook, instagram, but also by the big tv stations. corporations decide what's true. we are seeing what appears to be a process of corporate takeover, including big tech, on a scale never seen before in history. it will be the inevitable consequence of a denial of the values on which the united states and western democracy were built. but if we look at donald trump's policies objectively, we have to look at them positively. it certainly was from the point of view of the interests of the countries of central and eastern europe, including poland. military, economic, energy ties have been strengthened. the us has backed the three seas initiative, which aims to create a sustainable foundation for economic development in the region. the initiative was set up as a cooperation forum for 12 countries: austria, bulgaria, croatia, the czech republic, estonia, lithuania, latvia, poland, romania, slovakia, slovenia and hungary. i hope joe biden will uphold those actions and commitments.
madam president! it's a difficult six months, a lot of difficult issues that will decide the future of europe: the pandemic, vaccines, rebuilding trust after what pfeizer did by limiting vaccine supply, or germany negotiating its contracts outside the european agreement, and climate law that is still unfinished work on it needs to be accelerated (the votes of the parliament, the commission and the european council are divergent), adaptation to climate law of regulations, including the regulations on absorption, as well as the very important ets regulation. as you can see, the ets, the european carbon levy system, has gotten out of hand. in the last few months, we've had to pay twice as much for a ton of carbon dioxide. this is an alarm which must lead to the amendment and revision of this regulation in the coming weeks.
madam president, prime minister, please! instead of enjoying the pleasures of winter, many europeans today are concerned about how to survive this time of year. their fears are justified. we've been witnessing an unprecedented wave of disruption in energy supply and electricity price spikes. winter has exposed the reliability of renewable energy and restored concerns about energy security. the portuguese presidency has not addressed this issue. the recent months have shown that too rapid an energy transition risks serious disruptions in energy production and distribution. plus, we have space power bills. it's already happening in france, austria, ireland. and winter's not over yet. i therefore urge you not to ignore the problem of energy security and access to energy. we need to ensure a reasonable pace of transition, but with indigenous fossil fuels as stabilizers of the energy system. our continent cannot be plunged into cold and darkness just because wind turbines and solar panels are in fashion and bring profits to the chosen few. i think it's time to apologize to coal.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the social and employment crisis during the covid-19 pandemic and the eu response in the recovery plan and the mff (2020/2934 ((rsp)).
madam president! the social and employment crisis during the covid-19 pandemic is the impact of this pandemic that will be with us for a long time. the question is therefore: what actions have already been taken, is the level of funding sufficient, and what will be and is the effectiveness of the mitigation instruments? some answers we have to wait for. the crisis is ongoing. the main challenge, which reduces social impacts such as increasing poverty, social inequalities, reduced access to health care, and the deteriorating situation of the elderly, the sick and the disabled, has been to protect jobs, maintain employment and fight for every job. poland, my country, is an example of a country that has so far successfully protected its labour market with the help of the support instruments it has put in place, using its own resources and eu support. poland has benefited from the sure programme and is preparing a national recovery plan to benefit from the instrument for recovery and resilience. vaccines are an opportunity for all of us, but if we want to have a healthy economy and a modern job market, we need to be innovative and not afraid to reform.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the report by lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 223/2014 as regards the introduction of specific measures in response to the covid-19 crisis (com (2020) 0223 - c9-0151/2020 - 2020/0105 (cod)) (a9-0174/2020).
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. in the more prosperous europe, we still have enclaves of poverty and a profound diversity of poverty. before the pandemic, 13 million people benefited from the european fund for the most deprived, including 4 million children. that shows the scale of the problem. during and after the crisis, the number of people in need of food assistance will increase exponentially. we see that today. particular attention should be paid to the elderly, the disabled, the chronically ill, the lonely and the homeless. we need help fast and well organized. the fead regulation has been amended in part to respond to these growing needs, with a key element being the increase in additional appropriations. however, the mandatory 3% contribution for all these measures may restrict the freedom of action of the governments. time is short. the priority is to bring the regulation into force as soon as possible in order to immediately mobilise additional funds, amend operational programmes and purchase food and quickly distribute it to those most in need.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! universal housing is clearly a priority. there's no life worth living if you don't have a chance to have a place to live. this applies to young people who are planning their future and want to start a family, as well as to older people who are often in a difficult financial situation: they cannot afford to pay rent, they cannot afford to buy an apartment. but very often for these people, as well as for people with disabilities, the additional obstacle is architectural barriers. and then there is the homelessness that affects so many europeans. all of this requires our care and support. and in this respect i agree with the report as much as i can. i also agree that housing is the economic hub. but i do not agree with this report in that part where it tries to impose new standards, new regulations and to place itself within the competence of the member states. we should support member states in funding good projects, but not in imposing further regulations.
mr. chairman, please! equitable access to decent and affordable housing is a right of every human being that should be universally guaranteed. the lack of this possibility could have fatal economic consequences for the european community as a whole, and could have a negative impact on already fragile social attitudes. unfortunately, the covid-19 pandemic has not spared this sector of the economy. the problem affects tens of millions of europeans, who are having serious problems paying rent and housing bills as a result. what our economy will look like after the coronavirus will depend largely on whether we work together and engage the eu institutions to increase the availability of housing for people with different housing needs. often, the number of units given away does not translate significantly into an improvement in their accessibility. this problem affects young people entering the labour market, as well as large families whose incomes are too low to buy housing at market prices and too high to qualify for public housing. today we must make it clear and assure the citizens that the european union will not leave anyone without a roof over their heads.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. online work is a blessing because it protects you from the coronavirus, it gives you the ability to work in these difficult times, but it's also a curse because it blurs the line between your personal and professional life. there can be absolutely no agreement that people do not have the right to privacy, to a private life - after all, there are laws that should guard against this. there is a 2003 directive that clearly defines the right to rest, it shows how the working time standards apply, there is national law on working time, so it seems that these solutions that are being proposed right now are another over-regulation. it might be worth looking at these existing laws and wondering why it doesn't work, why workers don't have a chance to have this 2003 directive protect them, rather than create another law.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the cost of tax havens worldwide to honest taxpayers is 360 billion euros. and of that 360 billion euros, just 2% is collected by the countries on the eu's list of tax havens. so it is good that we have a large parliamentary majority here to thoroughly revise this list of eu tax havens. countries that have 0% corporate taxes, countries that allow shadow companies with little economic substance, should automatically be on this list in the future. the list must also be in line with european standards and must therefore be drawn up in a transparent manner. the commission is therefore asked to be bold, to come forward with a bold proposal and, if possible, one which - unlike what some people in this parliament have found difficult so far - openly admits that we also have tax havens in europe, in the eu.
ladies and gentlemen! the european union countries lose €170 billion a year in tax havens and cross-border profit shifting. they receive on average 13% of the annual budget of each eu country. according to the polish institute of economics, the elimination of artificial profit transfer by multinational corporations between different jurisdictions within seven years alone could lead to the recovery of eur 420 billion. this is more than the amount the union will spend on cohesion policy over the next seven years. today, we need solidarity on this issue. these funds are needed to save our economies, especially in the fight against covid-19. we must therefore demand decisive action by the union as a whole. enough of the double standards, enough of the silence. there are six beneficiaries of these rotten transactions in the community, who are feeding off the abuse and oppression of others. the netherlands, the author of this article mentions, is undoubtedly the most profitable country.
mr president, commissioner, madam president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in may 2016, the council decided to establish a blacklist of tax havens. four and a half years have passed. the list has been updated several times since then. a number of jurisdictions have been added to the list and taken down. most of these were small island states in the south pacific, whose lack of cooperation on tax matters was probably most likely due to their lack of effective tax administration. it is time to reflect on the basic meaning and absurdity of this list and to see whether it really helps us further in the fight against tax havens. i think we have three problems that i want to address briefly. first, with a few exceptions, the list does not include the right countries. the council has always been bold in including small states on small islands somewhere, but has always been reluctant to tackle large chunks. why is the state of delaware -- after all, someone from that state was sworn in as president today -- not on this list, just to give you an example? secondly, the so-called safeguards attached to the list are simply not sufficient. so we should also think about what it really means to create sanctions. thirdly, the list is not credible unless we ourselves in europe start fighting our tax havens. madam president-in-office, i recommend that you follow the commission's advice and take a look at madeira. i think this is part of portugal. it's a tax haven too.
mr president, i think the council should start this debate by recognising that the current list of tax havens does not work. and we could probably agree on two big reasons. the first is that there are no clear criteria, so that diplomatic issues, or foreign policy issues or other considerations that have nothing to do with monitoring the control of tax havens are always introduced. the second major element is the absolute absence of transparency, accountability and control by this parliament, so that if we take into account that the council incorporates assessments or criteria which have nothing to do with the fight against tax havens and that, moreover, there is no democratic accountability, we have a list which is not credible. and this list must be thoroughly revised, because at this moment, in this difficult crisis europe is going through, citizens need to see more of the example of public officials. i therefore hope and trust that the commission, commissioner gentiloni, will present new initiatives in the near future to improve transparency, to improve predictability as to which states may or may not be on that list and that we will not be in the dark about countries entering and leaving that list without any criteria, without any control, without any democratic traceability. and let us hope that this proposal incorporates greater transparency, greater control by this european parliament and that the council, of course, accepts it.
mr president, on 31 december the united kingdom and spain concluded an agreement in principle on gibraltar. i will not talk about sovereignty, because if the spanish government does not care about that, i do not know what you would care about. what they do care about is avoiding unfair competition. the pre-agreement aims to remove physical barriers to the mobility of people and goods. this is not easy, because they are two territories with different tax systems. there is no value added tax in gibraltar, and no tax on tobacco, alcohol or oil. corporate tax is not levied at all on profits made outside the rock. today there are 80,000 companies in gibraltar, 25,000 of which are financial institutions. and gibraltar has come to control 60% of the world's online gambling. the pre-agreement enshrines this tax regime. what company is going to set up in the adjacent european territory if it can access the european internal market without paying taxes? we were concerned that the uk was becoming a singapore and we are shocked by barbados. it makes no sense to tolerate a tax haven at the door, remove the lock or hand over the keys.
mr president, the european list of tax havens is a great idea that has been very badly implemented. paul tang said someone forgot to put tax havens on the list. i couldn't agree more. i think there are three urgent things that need to be fixed. the first is the criteria used to introduce countries. they are more political than technical and objective, and they urgently need to be corrected. second, the sanctions. the sanctions on companies that are on the list are very few. those on the grey list are practically walking out of the frying pan, with no sanction whatsoever, and that can't be. and third, transparency. the list will never be credible if we are not able to explain it to the citizens and if this parliament is not able to control how this mechanism is made. finally, the most important thing in all this is that we have to tackle tax havens within the european union, which is not the case with this list. and the resolution we are about to vote on proposes a measure which would help a great deal, which is a european minimum rate of corporation tax. i therefore regret that some groups have tabled amendments to remove that part of the text, and i would like to invite all my colleagues to vote tomorrow to retain that part.
mr president, madam secretary of state, commissioner gentiloni, ladies and gentlemen, the current crisis has put the public finances of the european union in the red and, in addition to the growing poverty in our country, there is the insolent health of finance and tax evasion allowed by tax havens. shame on them! our response to this scourge is a list of minor countries accounting for a painful 2% of tax evasion. where's the rest of it? where are the eu member states such as malta, ireland, the netherlands and luxembourg, which have nothing to envy to the cayman islands or panama? in fact, the united kingdom will soon have to be added to the list, as it is said that, in the event of brexit, it will look like panama on the thames, right on our doorstep. it is high time, ladies and gentlemen, to put an end to the hypocrisy and the moral complacency shown to fraudsters. let us sweep our doors and impose our standards on those who want access to the internal market. any value created in the union must contribute to the solidarity of the union: this is the very essence of the european economic project.
member of the commission. – mr president, i think in this debate it was very clear, first of all, the awareness of the dimension of the tax avoidance. mr giegold mentioned eur 360 billion. this enormous dimension also moves very fast and quickly, adapting to different situations, different countries, frequently with new methods. it’s a challenge for us. what can we say, i think, first, we have a tool. i understand the limits, the difficulties, the criticism towards this tool; but indeed for a few years we have had this tool. i assure you from the short experience that i have here in the commission, but also from previous experiences, that this blacklisting is in any case something effective for the countries involved. this tool should be strengthened. we have to work on criteria to avoid the risk of formal decisions being inconsistent with substantial reality in tax havens. second, i think we have to control defensive measures taken in member states against blacklisted countries. because if these measures are not there, or not rightly there, i think the commission should propose to intervene, as i said in my introduction, with a legislative proposal. then we have a different file from the one of the non-cooperative jurisdictions, which is the file of what happens within our club, and within our member states. is there a problem with aggressive tax planning, with a race to the bottom? yes, there is a problem. we have repeated this in our semester surveillance process for years, and i want to seize this opportunity to stress the fact that we not only have the process going on with pillar ii in the oecd discussion, but we also have the recovery and resilience facility with the commitment to be consistent with country—specific recommendations, and in a few cases these country—specific recommendations give some importance to the issue of aggressive tax planning. i think we should work to make this commitment practical and solve these issues. a final point: several members asked for the commission to be ambitious. i think we will try to do so. but quite frankly, to do so, we need your control and your support.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i’ve heard the honourable members of parliament and i’ve heard the commission. i want to thank you for this clear and open exchange of views and it’s good to see that the three institutions think that good tax governance is a priority. so, as the commissioner said, we have a tool and the work of the code of conduct group is carried on a continuous basis under the guidance of the ecofin council, so things can evolve. the issues discussed in this context are both important and sensitive, and the working group will continue to generate concrete and positive changes in tax legislation both at the eu and international levels. the results of the work of the group are made public systematically in a transparent manner, and they will continue to do so. so thank you very much once again for this debate, and thank you for your attention.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, wednesday, 20 january 2021. the final vote will take place on thursday 21 january 2021. ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, i suggest we proceed with a slight departure from the daily routine. in order to allow the groups to prepare the voting recommendations for the next round of voting, i would not now wait until the next debate to announce the results, but would do so now. that's scheduled for 7:00. we're right on time, too. i see no contradiction in that. so we come to the results of the first round of voting. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – isn’t it ironic that in this house we don’t get bored of taxes? however, more than 80% of eu citizens agree that tougher rules on tax avoidance and tax havens are needed. and yet around 20% of the eu’s corporate tax revenue is estimated to be lost annually due to profit shifting to tax havens. something is still going wrong. firstly, it is not proven that black lists hurt tax havens. paradoxically, they might even serve as guiding maps for wrongdoers seeking secrecy, lack of transparency and low tax rates. we need sanctions now! secondly, a very low or zero-tax rate should be a basic criterion for these jurisdictions to be blacklisted. moreover, we need more transparency from the code of conduct. the list should be less political, while the methodology must be easily explainable to our citizens. finally, we can’t preach what we don’t deliver. our own usual suspects when it comes to tax deals in the eu have to reform – not undermine a fair internal market. when one thinks of tax havens, we imagine a luxurious club of tropical islands. in this club tropicana drinks might be free, but it is our citizens who pay for them. let’s make that club bear a fair share!
in writing. fair taxation, tax compliance, transparency and accountability are essential features of our democracy. according to research, eu citizens lose €140 billion in corporate income tax losses every year. it's money that you can spend, for example, especially in a pandemic, on health. 86% of eu citizens want the eu to fight tax evasion. we can no longer turn a blind eye to the utmost irresponsibility and hypocrisy! how do you remove the cayman islands from the list of tax havens? the number one tax haven in the world, responsible for 16.5% of global tax avoidance. why do we turn a blind eye to european tax havens, which are responsible for one third of global tax avoidance? especially now, when the crisis caused by covid-19 is taking away thousands of honest taxpaying businesses, thousands of jobs of our citizens, this is unacceptable! we're not going to help small businesses by allowing the giants to avoid taxation. we will not speed up the recovery from such a serious crisis by applying unclear rules that harm the economy and every eu citizen. our responsibility is to develop and implement transparent and impartial criteria for listing and delisting. honesty, fairness and cooperation between member states in this matter are essential!
the next item on the agenda is the vote. we will vote on the items on the agenda. voting will be open from 8 p.m. to 9:15 p.m. the same voting method as in previous elections was used. all votes will be cast by name. i call the second round of voting open and remind you that you can only vote until 9:15. the house will adjourn at 9.15 p.m. today and resume at 8.30 a.m. tomorrow, with the first item after adjournment being the announcement of the results of the second part of today's vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. of course, i would like to start by expressing my deepest sympathy to all those affected by this tragedy of the earthquake in croatia, to all those who lost loved ones, and to those who were also affected in a material way. the situation in croatia after the earthquake has once again demonstrated international solidarity in times of crisis. assistance under the union civil protection mechanism was launched and poland and turkey provided bilateral assistance. in response to a request from the croatian side, my country, poland, provided military living tents for several hundred people and additional necessary equipment such as beds, mattresses, sleeping bags and bed linen. thanks to swift action, the relief supplies reached those in need on new year's day. this was not the first or last aid that came from poland to a country that had been hit by a tragedy, in this case an earthquake, as part of european solidarity. in 2018, as minister of the interior and administration in the government of prime minister mateusz morawiecki, i made the decision, at the request of sweden, to send polish firefighters to fight the unprecedented plague of forest fires in the history of that country. i still have in my mind the image of polish and swedish firefighters fighting fires together. this situation, as well as the rapid response of the states to the current situation in croatia, demonstrates the true nature of international solidarity in the face of tragedy.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. fellow workers! thank you for taking up this important subject during the european parliament's session. closing the digital divide and women's participation in the digital economy is a highly topical issue in an era of economic competitiveness challenges. but not only that, because especially today, it's a huge challenge to combat the economic crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic. it is precisely this economic crisis and the long struggle against it that is now hitting with a double edge in sectors where women are the majority of the workforce. it's been years since digitization has fundamentally changed most aspects of our lives. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary support to the member states in the implementation of the union's policy on digital skills. it is not only gender stereotypes that are a major obstacle, but also work-life balance solutions and opportunities. because we cannot afford to deepen the digital divide, to exclude women from participation. we need to take full advantage of the role of women as users, innovators, creators, participants in life, in the challenges of the economy, especially the digital economy. unfortunately, even today, in the 21st century, women are less confident in their digital skills, and it is these skills that provide the opportunity for equal and equitable access, which today more than ever, in the months of lockdown, we see every day, in our families and in the workplace. and there can be no consent to digital exclusion. already, the data that's available is startling, showing that most employees need to acquire digital skills to stay in their jobs. globally, 75 million jobs could be lost to automation. thank you very much for taking up this topic and i ask (words not heard) for additional resources for access and digital skills.
madam president, if i’m allowed, just give me five seconds to say: aren’t we all overly joyful about the historic moment that happened yesterday, where for the first time a woman became us vice—president, and on top of that, a black and asian-american woman. to me, it was really a moment of shattering of glass ceilings and a great moment of joy. now, talking about the gender equality strategy: i was born in 1987 in western germany. my mother always wanted to work and for that, a lot of barriers were put in her way. last week, my sister became a mother for the first time, and the fact that for her, it’s going to be much easier to combine her work life and her family has a lot to do with the european union, with a very proactive anti-discrimination policy that has really shaken up conservative countries like, for example, germany. but today, if we’re being honest, the women in germany are not as equal in their rights, as for example, women in france or sweden. that is why, especially for conservative countries like germany, we need a strong european union. be it on equal pay, on the fight against gender-based violence, or for sexual and reproductive rights. we need a push from brussels, madam commissioner.
i would like to thank all the members for these excellent reports on equality. digitalisation is rapidly changing the economy, society, work and everyday life. the covid-19 crisis has only accelerated this development. has switched to distance learning and telework. the internet is increasingly used for hobbies, sports and culture. online sales have increased. it is a very big concern that women will be left behind in this development if we do not get more girls and women into the it fields. it is very worrying that, as the report states, only 18% of ict professionals in europe are women. the european economy will suffer a great loss if women's potential is not fully exploited. it is also a big loss for women's labour market position, and of course it affects the content of these digital services if women are not making them. so it's very important that we encourage all girls and women to choose digital careers, ict careers, and this starts from very young, from the very beginning of primary school. this requires role models, as this report has pointed out. it is also necessary to increase further training in the ict sector especially for women already in the workforce and, above all, to reform the workforce so that women can fully participate in the workforce throughout europe and bring this important potential to bear also in the field of digital services.
madam president! poverty, violence, discrimination, unemployment, wage inequality, all have their gender. most women are affected by all of this. the rule has been simple for centuries: where there is care, care and economic poverty, there are women; where there is money and power, there are men. this is clearly seen in the european parliament: 91% of the femm committee is female, and 28% of the budget committee is female. and that's also reflected in our debate today. i would like to ask you a question: where are all the knights, gentlemen, feminists, where are all those who have their mouths full of phrases every day to stand beside women and fight with them? so i appeal to my colleagues: this is our issue too, because it affects our grandmothers, mothers, wives and daughters. i'd like to warn you, there really is a special place in hell for men who don't support women.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. violence against women is a violation of fundamental human rights. i will keep saying this until every woman in the european union is safe in her own home. meanwhile, domestic violence has nearly tripled in recent times. these data are not just the result of the covid-19 pandemic. it's a testament to our failure to address violence against women. the objectives set out in the gender equality strategy can change this. but what we need are not just words, not just declarations of commitment and determination, but action: the union's ratification of the istanbul convention, the extension of the european catalogue of crimes to include gender-based violence, the strengthening of the guarantees of the directive on victims' rights. these and other demands were set out in a letter to president ursula von der leyen and i would be grateful if commissioner dalli could discuss them with me. this letter was signed by almost 60,000 poles and poles. it's with them, i repeat, that i take the women's side.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 21 january 2021. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the crackdown on the democratic opposition in hong kong (2021/2505 ((rsp)) *._______________* look at the minutes of the meeting.
author. – mr president, the eu has recently extended its hand to vietnam with a free trade agreement (fta) widening the horizons for companies both in vietnam and in europe, but we cannot continue to ignore the violation of fundamental rights currently happening in our economic partner. so today we call on the vietnamese authorities to immediately release the three journalists recently incarcerated, as well as all journalists, bloggers and human rights defenders currently unfairly detained for having tried to express their opinions. over recent years, the safety of journalists and whistle—blowers has taken a dramatic turn. last year, while we were concluding our fta, reporters without borders ranked vietnam 175th in the world press freedom index. that is one place below syria. this is why we urge the vietnamese government to also end the arbitrary censorship of independent news and media and delete the restrictions on online information sources. through our new—found economic friendship, we probably have some tools to further bring this issue to the core of our exchanges with our partner country. fundamental rights should definitely not be compromised with.
the commission shall propose: mr president, vietnam and the eu have historically enjoyed close relations and our cooperation has never been more important. together, we're lifting a thousand people out of poverty, spreading green technology and advancing worker rights. we are weaker alone, but we are stronger together. that is why it is so much worse that the human rights situation in vietnam is in decline. recently, several independent journalists and human rights defenders have been detained and sentenced for their political activities. dung, thuy and tuan have been sentenced to between 11 and 15 years in prison for so-called propaganda against the state. this is completely unheard of and unacceptable. such actions are not only a blatant suppression of free and independent journalism, but also a clear attempt to discourage citizens from criticizing the authorities. vietnam should release the wrongfully convicted immediately and revise its criminal code to bring it in line with international standards. the commission is also proposing that the eu should be able to provide the necessary financial support to vietnam in the form of loans. the eu and vietnam are working closely together and must continue to do so. but vietnam must understand that our relationship is based on a common agreement on respect for human rights and freedoms. i am therefore glad that we are sending a strong signal today with this resolution, which i look forward to voting through in parliament.
author. – mr president, vietnam might be and is a rapidly emerging economy, but it also leads the track of human rights violations. we are observing an intensifying crackdown on basic civic and political rights in the country. press freedom is squashed by state ownership of media sources. censorship is thriving, as the new cybersecurity law enables control of the global social media networks. any criticism of the government is a ticket to prison. the three journalists whose case we are discussing today chose to carry out their professional duties despite any risks. one of them – pham chi dung – reached out to us and warned about the false promises the vietnamese government makes in order to secure the trade deal with the european union. we should have listened better! the european union must use every available tool to assist and support these journalists along with hundreds of other civic activists imprisoned for simply doing their job while serving the public interest. vietnam’s economic growth is dependent on the free trade agreements. since the language of economic gains and losses might be the only language that the vietnamese government understands, we should consider reinstatement of tariffs for vietnamese goods.
i can smell it. uachtaráin, choimisinéir, dia daoibh or bhaile átha cliath. the first of these is the cathedral of the holy cross. there were a lot of trips to vietnam when there was an exchange of information about the trade. tír álainn is and vietnam are the people's flagship countries, and so there is an important trade relationship between the european union and vietnam now. it is without doubt, that we cannot remain silent and remain human in our eyes. the vietnamese authorities have adopted all pieces of legislation, national and international, that protect human rights and protect the chur chun cinn. le mo chomh-fheisirí, i am waiting for you to write the laws and three iriseoir who are named in the rún, immediately and on their terms. he was thrown in jail because he was trying to get the girls to drink. the vietnamese authorities are obliged to stop the use of all sorts of information and to ensure that the lawyers who are working on their case are honest and sincere. you should go to the police station and ask them to do something. i urge the vietnamese authorities to act in accordance with our letter of today and the three leaders, pham chi dung, nguyen tuong thuy and le huu minh tuan, to allow the immediate release of all prisoners. i urge the commissioner to take the necessary steps to ensure that the vietnamese authorities are not misled. the uachtaráin was the author of this important report. go raibh míle maith agaibh to bhaile átha cliath. i'm going to see him.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the degradation of human rights in the socialist republic of vietnam is serious, public and notorious. the single communist party of vietnam has not called an election for years. there is no respect for human rights and there is no harm in eliminating any opponent, political activist or journalist who denounces the lack of these rights. i shall be very interested to hear what my communist colleagues in this house will say on this particular point. you have heard - and i say this to european journalists - some communist colleague in europe say that the killing and persecution of journalists in vietnam is not given the same priority as other issues in the world. vietnam has a privileged trade relationship with the european union. not so countries with an established democracy, like new zealand, or others on the way to development, like cambodia and other countries. i hope that at the next vote we will all unite clearly and without distinction of political groups in support of the denunciation and the changes that have to be made in vietnam, which is this country that has this commercial relationship with the european union.
i am not going to address the authoritarian communist regime in vietnam, mr president, because i do not believe it is prepared to change its approach to human rights, but i will address european democracy. on 12 february 2020, this parliament ratified a trade and investment agreement between the european union and vietnam, despite all the reports that were made since 2018, 2019, 2020 by amnesty international or human rights watch that denounced crimes and violations against the rights of vietnamese people. the rapporteur of the committee on international trade in charge of this dossier, mr bourgeois, had visited it in 2018 when he was belgian minister. he must have known. yet he did not address the issue of human rights. and the same rapporteur who found himself in this parliament was telling us that if we registered serious and systematic human rights violations, we would suspend trade preferences. well, i am addressing mr bourgeois, i am addressing the commission, these serious violations exist, they existed and they will continue to exist. and so i ask that there be a suspension of the preferential agreements with vietnam.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. communism always ends up just like we see it at this moment with the implementation of the policies of the communist authorities in vietnam. because it is an ideology that defies human rights, common sense and logic, sooner or later it must stifle freedom of speech because it hates free debate. that is why it is good that we have this draft resolution today, because what has happened, which has been happening for a long time, but what has happened recently, namely the sentence of 11 to 15 years in prison for journalists who criticize the communist authorities, is something that is unacceptable. and it is right that the eu institutions take very firm action on vietnam. you can't agree to this kind of activity. but what's really worrying is that big tech companies like facebook and google are also involved in censorship. here too the european parliament and the european institutions should take a firm stand, because these companies also earn a lot of money in the european union and they cannot be allowed to participate in censorship.
in writing. the roadmap for the transition to a circular economy contains recommendations proposed under the concepts of a green economy, sustainable development and a low-carbon economy, which are inextricably linked to the circular economy. the action plan refers to the principle that goods should be produced and used for as long as possible in accordance with their position in the value chain and that waste, if generated, should be treated in accordance with the waste hierarchy that is best for both the economy and the environment. poland is one of the 10 eu countries that have prepared and adopted a circular economy (ce) strategy, and the first such country in central and eastern europe. the goz is one of poland's priorities and the 'roadmap for the transition to a circular economy' is one of the strategic projects of the responsible development strategy. the roadmap identifies four priority areas for poland: sustainable production, sustainable consumption, the bioeconomy and new business models. the map sets out the legal framework for the implementation of the eap in the coming years, but to fully implement the idea of the eap, it is necessary to have the cooperation of the administration, science, business, ngos and consumers in our daily lives. the successful implementation of the circular economy will depend above all on our awareness, imagination and openness to the civilizational challenges of the future.
in writing. the eu action plan on the circular economy is a forward-looking agenda for a cleaner and more competitive europe, co-created with business, consumers, citizens and civil society organisations. the objective of this plan is to accelerate the transformational change required by the european green deal, while taking advantage of the circular economy actions implemented since 2015. the action plan must strengthen the eu's competitiveness while promoting environmental protection and new consumer rights. i welcome its focus on the design, production and development of a mature secondary raw materials market. these issues have been given priority, with useful recommendations on digitalisation, recycling, better waste treatment and green public procurement. however, several compromises are unattainable, which may undermine the objectives of the action plan. looking at the changes that are happening, covid-19 will impact economies in different ways. therefore, the post-epidemic state of the eu economy, the different economic potential of individual member states and the impact of the pandemic on their economic situation should be taken into account. the priority for the implementation of the ppps in the coming years should therefore be given to those actions where there is the greatest synergy at member state level between the response to the covid-19 pandemic and the achievement of the objectives of the ppp strategy.
in writing. the new circular economy action plan is a major project in the field of climate and environment policy. however, it should be borne in mind that a very important aspect of this plan is the drive to increase the efficiency of the european economy and the competitiveness of european businesses. greater sustainability of value chains will improve the competitiveness and profitability of european industry and the strategic autonomy of the union economy. especially in the current crisis and supply chain disruption, we have seen the crucial role of strategic autonomy. the circular economy action plan should be seen as a potential and an opportunity. this is an opportunity for european smes to grow rapidly and to exploit new opportunities. however, to realise this opportunity, the action plan must be implemented in a responsible and effective manner. many smes are already being supported to move to more sustainable business models, but the complex and outdated procedures and administrative burdens are hindering this. we need to make sure that these obstacles are removed as soon as possible.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. human trafficking is one of the most heinous crimes. the deprivation of human beings of their basic dignity, the sexual exploitation, the taking of the lives of enslaved people to harvest their organs, or finally their exploitation as labour must be fought ruthlessly and with all determination. the ecr has always supported any action - including a european union directive - that can help to combat this particularly heinous practice. since a significant part of trafficking in human beings is cross-border, very close cooperation between the special services and police of the member states is necessary, with the support also of europol and fronteks. however, the fight against this heinous practice cannot be the gateway to open the european union's borders as part of the 'safe and legal pathways' as defined by the european parliament. such naive thinking, like the involvement of ngos in the practice of facilitating illegal migration, can cause much more damage. this will result in more victims who, in their search for a better life, will fall into the hands of ruthless criminals. one thing to note, commissioner, is that men are also involved in the fight against this practice. such a vulgar, you might say, recall of the strindberg battle of the sexes serves no one. as a former home secretary, i want to emphasize that many men have been involved in the fight against human trafficking, the problem is the way they have been fighting it.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: poverty in the european union remains a serious social problem and the fight against poverty is a constantly evolving issue. the europe 2020 targets have not been met, and so has the target of reducing by 25% the number of people living below the poverty line. this is where the efforts of the european union and the actions of the member states must meet. poland is a good example of this. reducing inequality, reducing social exclusion has coincided not only with a good labour market, wage growth, low unemployment, but also with a lot of social investment, such as: the 500 plus family, maternity pensions, the valuation of the lowest benefits, school leaving, also the increase of the minimum wage, which in 8 years has increased by 50% in real terms. this has helped to reduce poverty by 1.2 million people. you can!
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. the pandemic has affected all areas of socio-economic life, and has also had a negative impact on sport, including competitive sport. but school-age children and youths are particularly vulnerable. all of these can have a significant impact on the physical fitness, physiological performance and health of children and adolescents. independently of the pandemic, the changes in civilization have led to significant declines in motor skills such as strength, agility, endurance, and coordination. i think we should do cross-sectional studies of motor skills using european fitness tests to get comparable data. in sports, we say, we play the way our opponent lets us play, so we have to outrun that opponent, the pandemic. we need to adopt new approaches, new forms of activity, so that the next generation is healthy and active.
ladies and gentlemen! the resolution prepared by our committee on education and culture is a very important signal for the support of the european parliament for young people and for the sports sector. the pandemic has had a huge impact on young people, their future, their education, their employment opportunities, their well-being. it also has a devastating impact on the sports sector, not only professional but also amateur, as small sports clubs contribute significantly to the development of young talent and are mostly volunteer-based. the sports sector accounts for over 2% of european gdp and provides almost 6 million jobs in europe. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on sport and its impact on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on sport and its impact on the environment. we therefore call on member states to support sport from national funds, structural funds and recovery and resilience plans, as well as from the eu health programme. we also ask the european commission to develop concrete short and long-term measures to support the sector in the new european union work plan for sport 2021-2024 and in the new edition of the erasmus+ programme. a coordinated dialogue between member states, the european commission and european and international sports federations is also essential to discuss the possibility of reopening sports facilities and the safe continuation of sporting events. these concrete solutions and support are essential not only for the health and wellbeing of our young citizens, but also for the wellbeing of our citizens themselves.
in writing. the coronavirus restrictions have had an unprecedented impact on the work of schools, universities, and professional and amateur sports. researchers have found that children and adolescents are particularly vulnerable to exacerbations. experts have no doubt that school closures have a devastating impact on education. the result of the lack of direct contact with teachers and other students will be a significant reduction in social competence. isolation has a negative effect on children's psychology, and constant exposure to computer screens leads to an increase in internet addiction. school closures have therefore had a detrimental impact on the mental health and education of children and young people, and are the least effective prevention strategy. the sports sector has also suffered. lockdown has had a huge impact on both professional and amateur sports. professional sports suffered an immediate financial impact from the lack of live sports viewers. amateur sports, local clubs, sports organisations and recreational facilities, including gyms, swimming pools, tennis courts, etc., have also suffered financially. i also draw attention to the situation of young people who are low paid and have lost the opportunity to train, volunteer and work during this period. i call for more investment in sectors that can provide jobs for young people. programmes such as erasmus+, the european solidarity corps, the youth guarantee and the child guarantee need to reach their full potential.
i am not going to say that the commissioner has not been consulted. we all remember the post-pandemic contraction of gdp in the european union from 7% to 10%. we welcome the wise compromise reached in december and look forward to its swift implementation by transferring funds from the reconstruction plan. until now, the states have been saving themselves. the polish government helped businesses, entrepreneurs, the disabled, the elderly. the union cannot therefore operate through the use of extraneous ideologies. important climate targets should not be imposed on the economies of weak countries. the union cannot be a hit with free soups, as it is now in spain, where there is unemployment. digitization should not be an end in itself and eliminate people from electronic processes. the pandemic has taught us that europe needs to have its own medicines, its own pharmaceutical industry. this winter has taught us that fossil fuels are not dirty when there is no electricity or heat. in sweden, green energy just lost to frost, and the swedish government is proposing to turn off the vacuum cleaners. this is all happening in the european union. the priorities and the pillars of the reconstruction plan must be human, realistic, because then we will succeed. they also have to be tailored to the individual countries. i wish you all the best in your endeavors.
mr. chairman, please! i am glad that we are discussing a concrete programme of aid to europe and not another project of ideological reconstruction. the european instrument for reconstruction and resilience (eur 672 billion for europe) is the result of joint, painstaking negotiations and hard work involving the interests of all member states. but is it sufficient and fair? there is an undeniable need to commit huge common funds to invest in the green transition, which must be seen across europe in the long term as a common, important instrument of european union policy. it is important that member states have different starting points and development, and today, in common solidarity, we need to understand what investments and reforms they need, creating national recovery plans as individual economies of europe. poland needs financing for transmission and distribution infrastructure. today, poland needs gas-based electricity and heat production as a necessary transition to meet common climate goals. i would urge that instead of bureaucracy, the real needs of each member state should be taken into account.
mr president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, today is a great day for european federalists because it is an important step forward in the process of european integration. in the 2008 crisis, the european reaction was slow and timid, and we had to endure lasting and probably unnecessary sacrifices. we have reacted infinitely better today on the basis of two principles: solidarity and responsibility. you have to spend what you have to spend, you have to spend it soon, but you have to spend it well, and in my opinion there are four commandments that should be fulfilled. firstly, the principle of transparency in the selection and award of projects to avoid discretion and patronage. secondly, reinforcement of ex post controls as public procurement rules are relaxed to prevent waste and corruption. thirdly, monitoring, that the measures taken comply with the country-specific recommendations without looking for shortcuts. it is not permissible, for example, to combat school dropout by decreeing a general pass. and fourth, sustainability. the recovery is currently based on many pillars, not least the flexibility of the stability and growth pact, which allows borrowing as much as necessary, but there will be a period of stabilisation and markets will begin to prioritise, select and punish those who do not comply.
mr. president, please! respected colleagues! the recovery and resilience plan, together with the multiannual financial framework, is the right, robust response to the crisis that has emerged in europe as a result of the covid crisis. the plan has a strong note of solidarity, which we have seen to be necessary in difficult matters, and this plan provides more resources to those who have been most affected by the crisis. the key to this plan is also that the investments, which are being made in conjunction with the multiannual financial framework and the mechanism, can respond to the key vision of the european union green europe, digital europe building on the competitiveness of the european economy, which is also crucial to respond to social cohesion and, above all, to respond to the shortcomings that have emerged in the field of health, long-term care. in my country, slovenia, too, we have seen the need to invest in health, in long-term care, and how well the funds will come from both the recovery and resilience plan and the multiannual financial framework. the key steps now are to adopt our national plans, to adopt the reforms that are the basis for drawing on these resources and to respond to them for future generations. i am also pleased that special attention is being paid to the young people who would lose the most in this crisis.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the corona reconstruction fund is a powerful expression of european solidarity. a great opportunity for the future if we do it right. we are responsible for 750 billion euros. the commission has not been able to do so, and i am not sure that it is possible to do so. payment at the limit of feasibility by 2050. 750 billion euros the european union has only this one arrow in the bow in the corona crisis. he's got to go to jail. otherwise, next generation is gonna have a bad taste in dessert. if the money leaks into the rotten coffers of the state, it will be the next generation that holds us responsible. if we don't pay our debts, we'll be accused of something. therefore, the money must be invested in the energy transition in a targeted and binding manner. it has to make health systems more efficient and digital. it must modernise many national education systems and universities and make vocational training much more responsive to the needs of the economy and society. i am worried that some governments are not capable of doing this. if they had understood the signs of the times, ladies and gentlemen, 290 billion euros of eu funding from the structural funds would not be on hold today. because in many countries the process of recovering funds is too slow, because ideas are lacking, because the approval procedures are too complicated. ladies and gentlemen, 750 billion euros now, that's a jolt for the nation states. make an effort to use this money quickly, wisely and efficiently for reconstruction and the future.
mr president, mr dombrovskis, today's sitting is a confirmation of the struggle of dozens of colleagues here in the european parliament for common borrowing and 'at last' solidarity and a common response to the consequences of the war of our generation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first parameter is time; we have to run. today begins the marathon of recovery efforts. the member states and national parliaments should urgently approve the same resources in order to guarantee the repayment of the joint borrowing. my country, greece, has already planned and programmed a series of major interventions to digitize the public sector, education and health, to deeply upgrade buildings and the environment, to sustainable transport and to permanently decarbonize our energy mix. these actions require strong private sector involvement, with mature projects that support green growth and the digital economy. the second parameter is that the funds for the recovery reach the citizens. support for small and medium-sized enterprises through special schemes. support for small and micro innovative enterprises will give taxpayers' money a premium; it will give young people in particular a perspective. today we vote to borrow in the name of our children. the way we invest every last euro is what determines their future.
mr president, today is an important historic moment for the european parliament and the european union, because for the first time the european parliament and the european union have managed to respond to the socioeconomic crisis together with a powerful weapon of 672 million from the recovery and resilience fund. we must be proud of the european parliament, because through the committee on budgets - first and foremost with our dear colleague siegfried mureşan, who was one of the rapporteurs - we have achieved an important framework for supporting the economies of the member states of the european union and of the european citizens. and it's particularly important to note that, in order to be considered successful, the recovery and resilience plan has to ensure the next generation; to ensure the well-being of the next generation. this plan must secure new jobs and bring unemployment to zero. this plan must give money and liquidity to small and mediumsized enterprises in difficult economic situations and, more generally, support society so that no european citizen is left on the sidelines; so that no european citizen is left homeless; so that no european citizen is left without a job. i come from a small country, cyprus, which was tested in 2013 and is still being tested today by the socioeconomic crisis. it's based on tourism. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first i would like to thank you for today’s very comprehensive debate. if the european parliament endorses this regulation today, the council presidency has foreseen a fast process so that the agreement can be signed as soon as this friday. so if all goes well, the regulation could enter into force as early as this month, with the publication date in the official journal likely to be in late february. we could then look ahead to the remaining steps before a formal submission of the plans for the assessment by the european commission. it will require a great deal of effort both to get member states’ plans ready for formal submission, and to get the plans assessed and approved quickly. this will be the focus of the commission. the european parliament’s involvement is very important and so the commission is ready to continue our exchanges in the context of structured dialogue. the communication on the recovery and resilience facility must be strong. so i trust the voice of parliament to support member states and the commission on these efforts. ownership lies at the heart of the recovery and resilience facility. this is why it is important to work closely with local, regional and national authorities, social partners and relevant stakeholders at all stages of preparation and implementation. a key element is ratification of the own-resources decision. and we must not lose sight of this. only then can we start borrowing under next generation eu and provide the first payments to the member states. and in parallel, we must make sure that all measures are put in place to finance a recovery by issuing green bonds. the commission will present a legislative proposal to this end as soon as possible.
acting president of the council. madam president, rapporteurs, distinguished members, mr vice-president dombrovskis, thank you very much for the opportunity to participate in this debate which has clearly shown the relevance of the recovery and resilience mechanism, particularly when associated with the implementation of the financial framework and also the next generation eu. this parliament is making history today. several points have been raised which i think are of great importance. first, the rfm must be managed efficiently and transparently, respecting the role of the three institutions. the commission will have to report regularly to the european parliament on the situation and parliament will have an important role in monitoring and scrutinising the whole process. it is also important that, in addition to digital and climate transitions, the european pillar of social rights is at the heart of the rfm. this regulation is very clear on the social quality of expenditure, in particular on promoting social cohesion and gender equality. it is also important, as has been said here, that the rfb is aligned with the multiannual financial framework and the next generation eu as regards respect for the rule of law and the defence of the financial interests of the union. finally, several members of this parliament referred to the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises. they are the backbone of our economies and without them there will be no recovery. we agree. the council stands ready to continue working with the european parliament and the commission to find the best solutions to meet the many challenges that lie ahead in the years ahead. we must therefore have a sense of urgency and work on implementing the regulation. as already mentioned, member states now have to ensure the ratification of the own resources decision by their national parliaments and, at the same time, present good national recovery and resilience plans, ensuring that reforms and investment reach regions, cities, businesses, citizens quickly, making a difference in recovering from the crisis and reorienting our economies towards a more sustainable, innovative and inclusive future. as the motto of the portuguese presidency says: for a fair, green and digital recovery: it's time to act. thank you very much.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in writing. the recovery and resilience mechanism is the core element of the next generation eu instrument, aiming to mitigate the economic and social impact of the covid-19 pandemic in the eu. member states should prepare simplified recovery and resilience plans, covering reforms and sustainable public investment projects. national plans should mitigate territorial disparities, promote balanced regional development and support economic and social cohesion. creating well-paid jobs and protecting existing ones must be among the priorities of national governments. only then will the eu countries have strong and resilient economies. romania will receive approximately eur 30,5 billion from the recovery and resilience facility, with pre-financing of eur 3,95 billion. this will allow for swift and concrete measures to mitigate the negative effects of the pandemic in the most affected economic sectors. romania will also be able to modernise its health system and finance major infrastructure projects by developing mature plans. the recovery and resilience facility will help the european union emerge stronger from this crisis, better prepared to address future challenges, turning them into opportunities for all and enhancing its long-term competitiveness.
in writing. last december, hungary achieved a historic success in the negotiations on the eu budget. unfortunately, the hungarian left is mobilizing all its energy to work on how it can harm hungary. he's working to take it away, reduce subsidies, to gain political advantage for himself at the expense of hungary before the 2022 parliamentary elections. first, the left-liberal meps wanted to get hungary's money into the direct brussels funds. this would have meant that the money would be taken from the hungarian people, because from the common hat we would have only been able to get a fraction of the money that we were due. then they lobbied unsuccessfully to have some of the development money that countries were entitled to get labeled politically and only given to opposition settlements. this endeavor also failed. now they're attacking with no consultation with the municipalities. however, the hungarian government has fully complied with this obligation since 2010, but under the left-wing governments there was no consultation with the municipalities on the preparation of the so-called national development plan. despite all the attempts by the left to undermine their own country, there is a good chance that our country will be among the eu countries where the job opportunities will open up the fastest. thanks to the agreement reached in the european council and the european parliament's decision to confirm the framework budget, we have protected the resources of the hungarian people in the european union.
in writing. – with the adoption of the recovery & resilience facility (rrf) during this month’s plenary, we have a potential crisis-solver tool. if member states use it smartly, we can fundamentally improve the eu’s crisis-preventing capabilities in the future as well. the eur 672.5 billion in grants and loans will support the citizens and businesses who have been hit the hardest by this crisis, such as smes. this unprecedented economic recovery mechanism is a tangible example of european solidarity and the lessons we draw from it will strengthen europe’s response to potential future shocks as well. the rrf offers not only a tremendous opportunity to aid the recovery from the crisis but also to invest in the modernisation of our economies. with clear targets for green and digital investments and reforms, this economic package can be a catalyst for innovation and sustainable resilient economic growth. while member states have the flexibility to decide the exact sectors in which they will spend the money, they are encouraged to invest in flagship areas such as clean technologies, data cloud capacities, and education and training. it is only through smart investments of rrf money that we will come out stronger from this economic crisis.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. my fellow members of the house of representatives! the european union is about to adopt the largest rescue package in its history, the recovery and resilience facility, comprising €312.5 billion in grants and €360 billion in loans, to kick-start the post-covid economic recovery. what we have been saying since the beginning of the health crisis -- that we need to work together to address global challenges -- now seems to be happening. let us not forget that the europe of our children is at stake. it is therefore of the utmost importance that, as described in the recovery fund regulation, member state governments fulfil their obligations to develop recovery plans on the proportions of the distribution of the programmes supported only after consulting local and regional authorities and civil society organisations. the allocation of union support under the recovery and resilience facility should respect standards of transparency and fair competition. to meet these conditions, the european commission recently called on the government of my country, hungary, to increase the transparency of public procurement procedures, to curb corruption, so that hungarian households and businesses in greatest need can really access eu funds. i would ask the commission that if the orbán government does not comply with these obligations of consultation and transparency, the commission should allocate the eur 6.3 billion for hungary directly to local and regional authorities and ngos, so that hungarian citizens are not penalized for the corrupt policies of the orbán government.
in writing. dear colleagues, we are in the midst of the greatest economic crisis since the second world war. many people have either lost their jobs or are struggling to make ends meet with their income. we must do everything we can to revive the economy. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full part in the world of work. investment is needed more than ever to not only create jobs but to make europe fit for the future. but above all, it needs european support. the commission's proposal is therefore of particular importance. the financial resources thus freed up must be invested in europe's future. and we're doing that by investing in climate change and digitization. i come from the burgenland, a federal state in austria with particular economic challenges. we must seize the opportunities here and push forward broadband expansion. but also subsidies in the field of photovoltaics can take us forward and strengthen our competitiveness. we must do everything together to strengthen europe, austria and regions such as burgenland in a sustainable way and to create new jobs.
in writing. the post-coronavirus recovery package, including the creation of the rff, is undoubtedly a landmark in the eu's history. the financial envelope in the reconstruction package is brutal and the general objectives set out in relation to its use are certainly to be supported. as a hungarian social democrat, however, i argue that the use of a development package of this scale should favour health improvements, housing and job protection, and a substantial reduction in government spending. i also consider it essential that there should be a broad consultation in the member states on the spending of the fifg. i know that there are states where the government conducts open and responsible consultations with stakeholders, civilians and a wide range of citizens before it submits a reform plan on the use of resources. unfortunately, i see that in hungary - where the fidesz government is so proud to consult people on all important issues - they are trying to drown out this consultation. it is extremely unfortunate that the orbán government has almost no involvement at all in the use of the several thousand billion forints that hungary receives from reconstruction funds. in fact, once again, he uses money from the union for his own propaganda campaign, denying that the funds for development are provided by the eu programme. we are facing a great reconstruction process, which can only be a success story if it is transparent, serves genuine restoration and reconstruction, but also keeps social goals in focus.
in writing. the european parliament has made a significant contribution to improving the european recovery and resilience mechanism, a central element of the next generation eu instrument, which aims to mitigate the economic and social impact of the coronavirus pandemic. the commission is proposing to increase the amount of prefinancing granted to member states from 10% to 13%. another change gives meps the power to evaluate programmes and decide, every two years, if necessary, to improve those aspects that are not working properly under the mechanism. the funding will support projects in the member states in the fields of greening and digitalisation, competitiveness and economic cohesion, territorial and social cohesion, as well as projects for youth. romania needs to make full use of the €30.5 billion it will receive through this mechanism and will need to continue the process of modernisation through investment and reforms with this money. our country needs to be properly prepared to meet the challenges of the transition to a green and digital economy, and with the eu's support, our society needs to become more sustainable and resilient once the pandemic is behind us.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statement on the de facto abortion ban in poland (2021/2537 ((rsp)). i would like to inform the honourable members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for allowing the presidency of the council to intervene on this important topic. on 27 january, the polish constitutional tribunal ruling of last october which restricted abortion to cases of fatal defects came into effect. this has prompted a wave of women’s demonstrations in several polish cities, as was the case last november. abortion and reproductive rights are highly sensitive and complex issues across europe, including from a legal perspective. the european court of human rights has consistently ruled that the council of europe member states enjoy a wide margin of appreciation as to whether and under what circumstances abortion is permitted under their national law. but once a member state decides to allow abortion, it has, according to the european court of human rights, a positive obligation to create a procedural framework enabling a pregnant woman to effectively exercise her right to have access to lawful abortion, in compliance with relevant provisions of the european convention on human rights. as far as the european union is concerned, primary law confirms that union law in principle does not interfere with constitutional provisions and other national legislation of eu member states relating to abortion. the charter of fundamental rights does not provide an autonomous right to abortion, even though it contains various rights that are potentially relevant for reproductive matters. pursuant to article 51(1) of the charter, these rights apply only when member states are implementing union law. in accordance with article 168(7) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, union action in the field of public health should respect the responsibilities of the member states for the definition of their health policy and for the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care. in this regard, the european pillar of social rights states that everyone has the right to timely access to affordable, preventive and corrective health care of good quality. indeed, the eu has no competence on abortion policy. but as a woman and as a member of a government, i would affirm that women’s rights are fundamental human rights and that sexual and reproductive health rights are at the core of gender equality and human rights. also, the union has a strong policy in terms of gender equality with a cross-cutting approach to all policies. the council has in several instances reaffirmed the eu’s commitment to the promotion, protection and fulfilment of the right of every individual to have full control over, to decide freely, and to have full responsibility on matters related to their sexuality and sexual and reproductive health; free from discrimination, coercion and violence. in this regard, let me stress that we certainly need a gender—sensitive approach in our responses now more than ever, and i thank the commission for all the initiatives and actions included in this gender-equality agenda. the presidency also calls for support for women’s ngos in their advocacy role, ensuring that they can access eu funds – including those of the european social fund – in the new programming period, the rights, equality and citizenship programme, and other funding and schemes.
member of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members, after our debate in this chamber in november, the situation in poland regarding sexual and reproductive health rights has not improved. the ruling of the polish constitutional tribunal of october last year stipulating that the abortion law is unconstitutional has now come into effect, bringing a near total ban on abortion. abortion will no longer be permitted in the case of a severe and irreversible impairment of the foetus. in practice, this means that 98% of abortions so far carried out in poland will become illegal. the eu has no competence on abortion rights within a member state. legislation in this area is up to the member state concerned. when making use of their competences, member states must respect fundamental rights which bind them by virtue of their national constitutions and commitments under international law. high-quality sexual and reproductive health services are essential to women and girls and to men and boys, and this goes beyond abortion and includes access to contraception, education and prevention, as well as the treatment of hiv and other sexually transmitted diseases and fertility and sex-specific cancers. we must take an intersectional approach. women with disabilities, for instance, or with a minority racial or ethnic background can be more vulnerable to violations of their sexual and reproductive health rights than other women. as regards the constitutional tribunal, back in december 2017 the commission already formally considered in its reasoned proposal under the article 7 procedure, that the independence and legitimacy of the constitutional tribunal is seriously undermined and the constitutionality of polish laws can no longer be effectively guaranteed. as the 2020 rule of law report recalls, these concerns have so far not been resolved. so i thank you and i look forward to your interventions.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. no one thought that we would be speaking about polish women in the european parliament again. we had the illusion that the constitutional court's decision would not be published and that no one would force the poles to heroism and take away their already very limited choice. that's why i want to make it clear: it was the pis government that decided on today's debate. it seems that such a socially important subject is trying to cover up a series of failings, and that is evil. i repeat what i said in the european parliament not so long ago: no one has the right to be the conscience of polish women. i hear more and more that poland is not a good country for mothers, and pregnancy instead of being an exceptional and expected condition becomes a condition fraught with risk and fear. if we look at the statistics, we see that polish women are having fewer and fewer children in the country, and in 2020 we achieved the lowest growth in 20 years. unfortunately, this problem is being downplayed. we know how many women have trouble getting pregnant. yet, the in vitro program, which has been very successful and has given thousands of couples the opportunity to have their own offspring, is being eliminated. there is a lack of access to prenatal care, antenatal care, adequate support for mothers with disabilities, and sex education. no woman will get pregnant because politicians want them to. no bill or welfare reform will change that. it's time to create smart solutions that allow women to make choices, and above all, make them feel safe in making those choices. i have the impression that the polish government is trying to force women into the role they were in decades ago. i believe that this will not work. i am with the polish women, as are my colleagues from the civic coalition and the ppe group in the european parliament.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, madam commissioner, they finally did it, perhaps hoping that we would be distracted by other discussions or caught off guard. but it's not like that. today we are debating in the house the rights of women in poland. because it's about debating women's rights. because it's about human rights. the publication of the judgment of the polish constitutional court and the support of the polish government implies the de facto ban on abortion. the decision is taken by a court which should not be called that, since it is entirely controlled by mr kaczyński's law and justice party, which does not respect the separation of powers. and that is a matter for this parliament to deal with. let's consider something else. the ban on abortion is not ending the practice. what we are doing is playing with women's lives, because those women who have the need to terminate their pregnancy will do it - have no doubt that they will do it - risking their own lives. they'll do it without the sanitary conditions. they'll do it in other places outside of poland. but they will. we therefore need to discuss these issues here in the european parliament: how to prevent clandestine abortions which cause the death of thousands and thousands of women. some people have wanted us not to have this debate, to have parliament not talk about women's rights in poland. i will make it very clear: we will speak once, we will speak five times, we will speak as many times as necessary, because it is not the women of poland, we are all. and i will repeat the same message that i launched less than a month ago: 'you are not alone.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. we're not here to discuss an independent court ruling, but a political decision. it was taken by people who were not authorized to rule, sitting in the constitutional court under the ruling party. this is not a ruling, but a political attack on a woman's fundamental right to self-determination. another one of those in poland. there is no rule of law in poland anymore and there are no women's rights. this was also due to the european commission's failure to effectively enforce poland's respect for the rule of law. the european commission has also been unsuccessful in its efforts to adopt a horizontal anti-discrimination directive guaranteeing equal treatment for all women in the european union in the area of health protection, including access to abortion. because abortion is a normal medical procedure. it should be seen as such by the law. when will the commission finally take action and use all its tools to protect women in poland? we're running out of time.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. it's the year 2021. we're in the middle of europe. in 2021, in the heart of europe, the current rulers have raised their hand against women. they have curtailed the rights of women, which generations of poles have fought for for centuries. moreover, this government has raised its hand against women who have taken to the streets to defend their rights. she used gas against women, broke their arms. she was holding them for no reason. and these right-wing fanatics are of course not going to stop today, because they have led to the fact that today polish women have more restricted rights than women in iran. and often the example of iran comes up here as an extremely conservative country. the situation is absurd, because in 2004, when poland joined the european union, polish women had more rights than today in 2021. therefore, i call on the european commission to supplement the rule of law proposal in poland (based on article 7 of the eu treaties) with the issue of restrictions on women's rights in poland. this proposal must be extended so that polish women finally have the same rights as belgian, french and german women.
madam president, what the polish government is very obviously trying to do is to transform poland into some sort of dystopian gilead, a place where men have control over women and their bodies. and nobody who is watching the situation can deny that any longer. but, for years, the people who were pointing to that fact, most of all millions of women in poland who were warning and saying how scared they were for their own rights, were told by many not to be so overdramatic and hysterical. and now they are angry and they have every right in the world to be so. that is why they are rising up. they are going onto the streets and protesting for their fundamental rights. let us learn this lesson, colleagues. when women warn that their rights are in danger, you’d better listen to them instead of trying to shut them up. but, most of all – and i can repeat this another million times if need be, madam commissioner – act, do something about this situation. the polish judiciary, polish women, the lgbti community in poland – what else has to happen so that we finally see true commitment from the commission for european values and for the fundamental rights of european citizens?
madam president! i want to start by saying that the title of this debate is a blatant lie. poland does not have a total ban on abortion. in poland, the constitution protects the right to life of those unborn who cannot defend themselves. there are exceptions. when the mother's health or life is in danger or when the pregnancy is the result of a crime. i want to emphasise that no international human rights instrument to which poland is a party provides for a right to abortion. nor is there any such right in the european convention on human rights and the case law of the european court of human rights. before you take selfies and put on socks on 21 march, the day of people with down syndrome, and then call for the denial of the fundamental right to life to those who are not yet born, i would like to remind you of the words spoken by the commissioner in this chamber: 'from a legal point of view, it is clear that the union has no competence in relation to the right to abortion in a member state'. that's what helena dalli, the equality commissioner, said in the november debate and today's debate. didn't you hear that? have you forgotten those words? today's debate is nothing more than an attempt to interfere in the internal affairs of a member state, which is incompatible with the treaties.
madam president! every week, you demand special rights for 200 undefined genders who already have their own special rights, their own special resources, their own commissioners, their own resolutions. and recently, even here, you organized a conference on special activities for women who provide sexual services. generally speaking, everyone in this room has rights except for children, who are considered disabled. it's, according to a lot of you, can be removed even in the eighth or ninth month of pregnancy on request. and yet you claim that this is a human right, and you challenge all those who defend these children, the most vulnerable, these most defenseless children. and indeed, in many places, children with down syndrome are no longer born, and those with down syndrome can be euthanized without their consent. but the key question is, who gave you the right to decide which life is better and which life is worse? many poles don't divide their lives into better and worse lives. and i'll tell you something else: we're not ashamed of it.
madam president! "an open heart is accepting, not judgmental". those are the words of the great polish actress, małgorzata braunek. meanwhile, tens of thousands of polish women took to the streets of more than 100 cities in poland, outraged by the decision of the government and its subordinate constitutional court. the polish government-sanctioned court, without public consultation, changed the current abortion law. there was an outbreak of discontent and across the country women spontaneously took to the streets to express their opposition. they were not deterred by the fear of the coronavirus, nor by the police's behaviour, which was quite aggressive in some situations. the decision to terminate a pregnancy is always a matter of the mother's conscience, and the consequences of that decision often determine the woman's life. in the civilized world, every democratic government asks its citizens for such an important change in the law. unfortunately, the law and justice government has violated women's rights and imposed its views on millions of polish women, denying them respect, tolerance and empathy and depriving them of the right to decide for themselves. it is all the more sad that in my country women were among the first in europe to be given the right to vote. that was over a century ago, in 1918. as a husband and father of three children, i will always stand for women's choice and rights, because they are human rights, and it seems that the party currently ruling poland in the name of ideological warfare, while distracting attention from the problems with the pandemic and vaccines, has decided to ignore this.
madam president, commissioner for equality, there was once a european union in which the states aspiring to join updated their legal systems to incorporate common values in respect for equality and the rights and freedoms of all. and we see in recent years, and in this case in 2015, how, in a newly acceded state, an increasingly anti-european government has embarked poland on a succession of judicial reforms in which independence is no longer recognisable. and how a constitutional court, challenged before the court of justice of the european union, restricts the options of voluntary abortion for thousands and thousands of polish women, condemning them to hiding or to an unacceptable risk, and for millions, in poland and across the european union, to protest in the streets. so what this resolution wants is for poland to return to the european union, but to do so with the rights and freedoms of all its women intact.
madam president! forcing women to give birth under any circumstances, which is an act of cruel state violence, will result in thousands of women facing the dramatic choice and necessity of seeking medical help outside their own country each time. unfortunately, not all women can afford it. this situation requires a decisive response. unfortunately, in response to my colleagues' and my own question on the situation of women in poland and the possibility of reimbursing the costs of abortion in specific cases across the union, the european commission stated that it would not take any action on this matter. this is all the more disappointing news given that the commission has many other avenues to pursue its objectives than legislation alone. i mean providing direct support to programmes and civil society organisations working on education, contraception, women's rights and health. the european parliament has repeatedly called on the commission to do so in its resolutions. calls on the commission to use the available resources and newly created eu programmes to effectively support the protection of women's rights in poland, inter alia by funding organisations, programmes facilitating sexual education and reproductive rights. the state of emergency in poland requires extraordinary action in the european union.
madam president, let’s remember that the main blame for the fiasco of this visit lies with russia – it is russia that was rude and perfidious towards our high representative – but nevertheless, this visit was a mistake. this was predictable and it was predicted, and, high representative, you didn’t go with the full support of all the member states. if you wanted to hear what you heard from mr lavrov you could have met him on the margins of osce or the un, where the environment would not have been controlled by the russians. they just obviously can’t help but show their bad manners towards western representatives. we are not supplicants of russia – it is russia that needs the lifting of our sanctions – and while russia is still occupying the territory of its neighbours, while it’s murdering people in our streets, while it’s interfering in our political processes and, above all, while it’s repressing its own people, this was not a good time to go. we need a sign from russia that they are willing to change their policy. and then, of course, we should always show them the so-called ‘off-ramp’ away from authoritarianism. but i hope that this experience has inspired you to a better understanding of us in central europe, and i’m counting on you to support sanctions against russia while their bad behaviour continues.
madam president, i would like to thank you. europe's neighbourhood is on fire. we see mass arrests of peaceful protesters in russia. we see continued police brutality in belarus and we see scenes of war from eastern ukraine. we must do everything we can to support these fighters for democracy in our neighbouring countries and continue to fight against those who are trying to stifle democracy. but today we cannot do it fully. in foreign policy, europe is held back by our fossil dependence on imported gas, oil and uranium from russia. germany's hesitation on nord stream is an example of this. it's time to break free of the shackling pipelines and invest in what cuts our dependence on putin's fossil fuels. as long as we are dependent on russian energy, we will not be able to have a fully independent and effective foreign policy. that's why we have to fight for 100% renewable energy and to support our fellow democrats.
mr president, as far as russia is concerned, many here know that the real villain is in moscow. this calls for a strong european policy, with action and with sharp words. and what have i missed, mr. borrell, in the past week. you did not go there to lecture putin, no, on the contrary! you've told our transatlantic allies in washington what the americans are doing wrong in cuba. and, by the way, what did i miss about that press conference? you didn't mention the russian occupation of crimea. you didn't mention the russian's rude move to screw up the mh17 investigation. you did not speak about tough sanctions that are necessary because russia has been committing gross violations of human rights for a long time. and what did we hear on that pressco? he was very complimentary about the sputnik vaccine. rarely has a journey been so painful, and also a disgrace. even during the press conference, moscow was giving a big middle finger to mr. borrell and to the eu by expelling three diplomats. i would like to see a different and more effective european high representative here.
madam president, i would like to say to mr borrell that, during his hearings in the committee on foreign affairs (afet) two years ago, he committed to working for a stronger europe in the world, a global player. mr borrell, you promised a truly integrated eu foreign policy which combines the positions of the member states, the commission and this parliament. after your visit to moscow, the eu is being portrayed as weak. the eu is being called an unreliable partner. the visit was organised without proper preparations to prevent traps set by the kremlin and went under a complete russian script. the collateral damage and disappointment about the visit is really massive. maybe it is easiest to explain through the perspective of eu citizens, those inquiries full of regret and criticism about the eu not being able to meet their expectations that i receive. i struggle to provide my fellow eu citizens with a reasonable explanation of why the first diplomat of the european union went to moscow against the advice of several member states and this parliament, particularly when the visit failed to open the door to freedom for aleksei navalny and to halt the violence against peaceful protesters in russia.
madam president! it's time to end this charade of hypocrisy. well, you're condemning putin in words and everything he does, which is trying to poison his opponents, put them in jail, raid their neighbors, create a totalitarian system that destroys the freedom of citizens. but when it comes to action, you do the exact opposite: you build nord stream 2 with it, which not only destroys european values and european solidarity, but also gives putin a tool to blackmail other countries. and the head of european diplomacy is demonstrating in moscow at the same time navalny is being sentenced. it's time to decide, europe: either you support values like solidarity and freedom or you support putin's interests. enough of this theatrical stuff. stop nord stream 2 or stop talking to us about values. europe, we must act, not speak!
madam president, high commissioner, when mass protests broke out in belarus, we drew attention to the fact that there is too much talk and not enough action from the eu regarding, of course, foreign policy. even if we had the best diplomats, there is little they could do because of the lack of a unanimous approach towards russia. the new eu sanctions mechanism should be revised by deleting the unanimity rule in the council. we need also to enlarge the sectional restrictive measures against the russian federation. the european union cannot remain idle in the face of all the human rights violations in russia. what we need is a new horizontal strategy towards russia. what we need is a common, firm approach towards russia. this is what we need.
madam president! one of the biggest humiliations in the history of european union foreign policy. a spectacular failure of image. it's a sad show. russia is making a fool of the union. here are the reactions of politicians and media to the visit of the head of european diplomacy, josep borrell, to moscow, where he was trapped and publicly mocked by sergei lavrov as a student. poland and the baltic states opposed the visit. the warnings proved all too true. you weren't listening to me. is it because there are no experts in eastern politics in your office? or are russia's allies in the eu, germany and france, trying to reset relations with moscow for their own immediate benefit at the expense of the interests of the eu and other member states, not to mention human rights in russia? you overestimate your own capabilities. it is pride, pride, which often leads politicians of the old union to give ex cathedra instructions to the central and eastern european state. this time the union got what it deserved and unfortunately it has turned its tail. what lessons have you learned from this failure? further sanctions, while obvious, will not produce the expected results. today, the only adequate response to russia's confrontational attitude is to stop the nord stream 2 investment.
madam president, it's as cold in brussels as it is in moscow, but that doesn't mean we're gonna tremble in front of putin's old man. mr. high representative, let me point out that you were not well prepared for this trip and you underestimated russian reality, the power structure, as you said yourself today. perhaps you went to moscow with the vision of establishing a constructive dialogue, as some member states are calling for. but it's time to pour some pure wine. your visit has shown that russia, with its current leadership, is not a reliable partner, because putin sees us, the european union, as the enemy. instead of the russian foreign minister answering for the russian regime's violent repression of democratic opposition, for jailing students, he is teaching us about what democracy in the european union should look like. and you, unfortunately, have been a silent witness to the expulsion of diplomats from member countries. it's not about criticizing you today, because i think we have a common goal. we have lost the chance to show the way to the future for real partnership and dialogue. this journey begins with the release of political prisoners and free elections. those must be our terms. this discussion we're having today is about what we're going to do about that future. you yourself admitted that your journey was not a success and that you learned your lesson. and i respect that statement. the european union too must learn from this and must recover. it must impose sanctions on those responsible for navalny's imprisonment, stop the nord stream 2 project and explicitly support the democratic orientation of the eastern partnership countries.
chairman of the sitting, mr vice-president of the commission. your visit to moscow, as you heard, has received a lot of negative attention. i believe you are well aware of all the events surrounding the moscow visit, for you were at the epicenter of these regrettable events. but let us here conclude the debate and, in the interest of the transcript, recite once more the principal omissions which have raised your activities and especially your inaction into the public's keen orbit. the timing of your visit was highly inappropriate given the ongoing repression of the russian people by the putin regime. by your visit, you have symbolically accepted the brutal behavior of the russian authorities as normal. you made a false statement at a joint press conference with the russian foreign minister that there is no interest or initiative among the member states of the european union to impose additional sanctions against russia. you failed to defend the interests of the european union and to clearly counter the attacks by the russian foreign minister against the european union and our ally, the united states of america. you failed to protect the interests of the european union. you did not interrupt your visit when you received information about the expulsion of diplomats from the european union countries from russia. mr borrell, i hope that you will understand the mistakes you have made and their impact on the european union, draw your own conclusions and act accordingly.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i am going to speak spanish, after all it is the second most spoken language in the world, and we have a very good interpretation system. so i will use my own language. muchas gracias por todas las observaciones que ustedes han hecho, por los comentarios, muy diferentes unos de otros, cubriendo un amplio espectro de interpretaciones respecto de esta visita y las relaciones entre la unión europea y rusia. tomo buena nota de ellas, y las tendremos en consideración en la preparación de los futuros debates en el consejo de asuntos exteriores y en la preparación del consejo de la unión europea. sin embargo, permítanme que les diga que, cuando he estado escuchando a algunos de ustedes, me daba la sensación de que quien había expulsado a los diplomáticos europeos era yo, porque realmente parecía que yo era el que había expulsado a los diplomáticos europeos. ustedes perdonen, quien expulsó a los diplomáticos europeos fue el señor lavrov. ¿que fue en reacción a mis declaraciones públicas sobre el caso navalni? puede, pero supongo que estarán ustedes de acuerdo en que las haya hecho. y, por favor, algunas de las cosas que he oído sobre lo que, según ustedes, dije o no dije en la rueda de prensa, simplemente, no reflejan la realidad, no dicen las cosas como fueron, porque, claramente, en la transcripción de la rueda de prensa queda claramente recogido cómo dije dos veces al señor lavrov, que estaba allí, y se lo había dicho en nuestro encuentro, que estábamos absolutamente, más que preocupados, en contra, denunciando los juicios que estaban teniendo lugar contra el señor navalni, el intento de envenenamiento que había sufrido y la represión sobre las manifestaciones que eso había generado en la sociedad civil. en dos ocasiones: al principio y al final. ¿cómo pueden ustedes venir aquí a decirme que no hablé del problema del señor navalni ni defendí a la oposición y las manifestaciones públicas? ustedes, no, no están hablando de lo mismo. existe una transcripción, léanla. vamos a ver, ¿cuál es el problema? para algunos de ustedes el problema es que la visita haya tenido lugar, que el alto representante haya decidido efectuar una visita a moscú. ¿saben ustedes cuántas visitas de delegaciones oficiales de nivel ministerial o superior ha habido en los dos últimos años a rusia por parte de estados miembros de la unión europea? diecinueve, diecinueve veces ha habido visitas a rusia. entonces, ¿qué pasa, hay que ir o no hay que ir? ¿o puede ir todo el mundo menos el alto representante? entonces, ¿para qué lo tienen? mis colegas sí pueden ir, pero yo no. diecinueve veces. entonces parece que ir no es algo que esté tan prohibido. más bien es una cosa bastante normal: diecinueve veces, diecinueve veces. el problema entonces es que quizá era el momento no apropiado. bueno, sobre eso hay opiniones: unos pueden pensar que no lo era porque se estaba juzgando al señor navalni, y otros pueden pensar que era precisamente por eso un momento apropiado para poner de manifiesto clara, directa y personalmente nuestra posición. es más fácil escribir declaraciones desde mi despacho, sin moverme de él, sin duda mucho más cómodo y menos arriesgado, pero creer que es justo en este momento cuando hay que hacerlo, francamente, no me parece un disparate. alguien puede pensar que no, que había mucho riesgo, que a ver qué iba a pasar, que mejor no ir, o no ir ahora, ir después, cuando ya el señor navalni habría sido condenado. pues miren, yo he tenido una valoración distinta y, por cierto, apoyada por la mayoría de los miembros del consejo de asuntos exteriores: aquí no hay solamente unos cuantos que se opusieron, hubo una mayoría que estuvo a favor. y a mí, francamente, me parece y me sigue pareciendo que, si de verdad la defensa de los derechos humanos y la defensa de las libertades políticas está en nuestro adn, hay momentos en los que hay que plantar cara e ir a explicar lo que decimos en los comunicados para que quede claro a quien lo recibe. ¿eso ha perjudicado a la oposición en rusia? ¿eso ha debilitado la posición del señor navalni? francamente, no entiendo por qué. luego podemos discutir sobre si, en el momento en el que públicamente expresamos nuestras posiciones, hubiéramos debido hacer las cosas de distinta manera, y ahí también caben interpretaciones; sin duda, a la vista de la valoración general, seguramente hubiera debido abordarlo de manera diferente, pero yo no entiendo una rueda de prensa conjunta como un debate ni como un pugilato; yo explico mi posición y la reitero, transmito el mensaje que he ido a transmitir: que la unión europea está en profundo desacuerdo y condena el intento de asesinato del señor navalni, los juicios a los que está siendo sometido y la represión de la sociedad civil y de las manifestaciones. lo digo y lo reitero, porque eso es lo que he ido a decir. y también digo, porque eso también es lo que he ido a decir, que, a pesar de eso, hay campos en los que sería posible imaginar una cooperación en beneficio de las dos partes, y desde luego, el paic es una de ellas. no entiendo a qué viene que alguien haya dicho que, en el caso del paic, yo he estado apoyando las posiciones rusas en contra de las posiciones de los estados unidos. pero, por favor, háganme críticas con fundamento, no se inventen los hechos para sustentar sus críticas. como coordinador que soy del consejo del paic, he intentado mantener este tratado en vida a pesar de la defección de los estados unidos. rusia considera que la unión europea está demasiado dividida para que pueda hacer una política firme en frente de ella. y también consideran, y también te lo dicen a la cara cuando discutes con ellos, que somos un apéndice de los estados unidos, y que siempre condenaremos lo que hacen ellos y no lo haremos cuando lo hagan los estados unidos, porque son nuestros amigos y aliados; que tenemos dos pesos y dos medidas. y creo que eso también es algo que tiene que ser puesto en cuestión: nosotros somos aliados de los estados unidos, pero no estamos cien por cien alineados con ellos en todas las posiciones que adoptan y en todas las decisiones que toman, no. hay casos en los que, si discrepamos, hay que decirlo y lo hacemos. y lo hacemos; lo hacemos cuando creemos que es necesario y conveniente hacerlo, y eso es lo que, de alguna manera, a algunos les puede sorprender porque tienen una visión excesivamente unilateral de los acontecimientos, pero mi obligación no es ejercer una actitud fóbica hacia nadie, es tender puentes cuando sea posible y marcar posiciones firmes cuando sea necesario. sí, se puede creer que la oportunidad no era la buena; también se puede pensar que sí lo era. se puede entender que el resultado no ha sido bueno, y desde luego hay que aceptar y admitir que la interpretación mediática y la mayoritaria en esta cámara es que no lo ha sido. pero no lo ha sido ¿por qué? ¿no lo ha sido porque no había que ir? ¿no lo ha sido porque no había que ir entonces? ¿no lo ha sido porque no hemos tratado los temas que teníamos que tratar? ¿no lo ha sido porque no hemos defendido la causa del señor navalni y de la oposición? hay distintas razones, distintos hechos, que hay que analizar uno por uno si no queremos que esto se convierta en un pimpampum del que el único beneficiario es el kremlin, que estará encantado de percibir nuestras divisiones. porque, en el fondo, de lo que se trata es de actuar con unidad y determinación; porque los países autocráticos o autoritarios creen que las democracias son débiles, intrínsecamente débiles, por su propio funcionamiento y la división que eso implica, pero las experiencias históricas demuestran que no es así. desde la caída del muro de berlín y la descomposición del imperio soviético, lo que ha quedado claro es que las democracias somos más resilientes, somos más fuertes, porque tenemos intrínsecamente una unidad por encima de nuestras diferencias, pero no podemos dejar que nuestras diferencias nos debiliten, y en este caso, como en todos, lo que hay que construir, antes y después de mi viaje a rusia, es la unidad de los estados miembros y la unidad de acción entre las instituciones europeas. y a eso hay que dedicarse, desde ahora, en el próximo consejo de asuntos exteriores, con la guía y las directrices del consejo de la unión europea a finales de marzo. y de aquí a entonces habrá que analizar seriamente cuáles son nuestros planteamientos con respecto a rusia, para lo cual, inevitablemente, había que hablar con ellos. sí, y el resultado ha sido el que es, que, si ponemos sobre la mesa la cuestión de los derechos humanos y, en particular, el caso del señor navalni, la respuesta rusa es: «no se habla de nada más». ustedes hablan de humillación, pero tengan por seguro que no ha sido nada cómodo, tampoco, para el poder ruso, ver como alguien va allí directa, expresa y personalmente y les dice lo que hemos dicho desde comunicados muchas veces. no, francamente, yo no creo que no había que ir a decirles en la cara lo que les decimos por correspondencia; pienso que era el momento de defender, con toda nuestra fuerza y con la fuerza que da la presencia física de un alto representante, nuestra posición con respecto al caso del señor navalni. independientemente de todos los errores, insuficiencias y cualquier otro pero que le puedan encontrar, creo que, si de verdad consideramos que los derechos humanos y las libertades públicas están en el corazón de nuestro proyecto político, la situación del señor navalni y de la oposición rusa demandaba una firme y enérgica presencia. ¿ustedes creen que no me hubiera gustado a mí entrar en un cuerpo a cuerpo con el señor lavrov y rebatir abiertamente algunas de sus observaciones? ¿como, por ejemplo, comparar el caso del señor navalni, que sufre un intento de asesinato y que pasa, uno tras otro, juicios que le pueden seguir condenando sin razón ni fundamento, con el de algún diputado que se sienta en esta cámara y de algunos colegas suyos que están haciendo libremente campaña electoral en cataluña en este momento? ¿ustedes creen que tiene algún sentido esta comparación? para cualquier persona es evidente que no lo tiene, es evidente que no lo tiene. pero no me quise enzarzar en esa discusión porque no venía a cuento, preferí volver a repetir el mensaje que fui a llevar. la unión europea expresa su condena y protesta y reclama que se investiguen las circunstancias en las que el señor navalni fue envenenado y que sea liberado porque su juicio no es un juicio justo ni con garantías, y pide respeto a los derechos y las libertades de los ciudadanos rusos; y al mismo tiempo, sí, considera que hay temas en los cuales es necesario, inevitable, buscar ámbitos de cooperación, pero para cooperar hacen falta dos. si el poder ruso no ha querido hacerlo, tomamos buena nota y tendremos que buscar otras formas de desarrollar esta relación. a pesar de todo, yo creo que hemos extraído elementos positivos de esta visita. sabemos mejor el terreno que pisamos, sabemos mejor cuáles son las reacciones que podemos esperar. y por todo eso, señorías, yo creo que lo que hay que hacer a partir de ahora es, en todas las instancias de las instituciones europeas —parlamento, consejo, consejo europeo, comisión—, analizar con inteligencia y con serenidad cuáles tienen que ser nuestros futuros pasos para decidir definir nuestra relación con rusia. espero que este debate haya contribuido a ello.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. they're echoing the visit to moscow on saturday. it was considered compromising by many commentators. not only has russia already used it for propaganda purposes and the eu suffered huge image losses, but during the visit itself, three european diplomats were expelled. unfortunately, many people have predicted this scenario. the background of the visit is the sentence of alexei navalny to 2 years and 8 months in a penal colony and mass protests brutally suppressed by the authorities. in this context, the eu must not only rebuild its image, but also the trust of those who fight for democracy and human rights. it should be made clear that the eu continues to support alexei navalny and also demands the release of him and many others who have been arrested as a result of their opposition activities or participation in peaceful protests. it is also important to maintain and extend the personal sanctions that should be imposed on oligarchs and those involved in the persecution of oppositionists and activists, and should also take into account corruption. finally, the european union must speak with one voice in our relations with russia. we cannot economically support a regime that does not respect civil liberties and democracy. therefore, the nord stream 2 pipeline should be abandoned. it would be a clear signal of our opposition to the lack of respect for civil rights by the russian authorities, but also an expression of our solidarity and unity.
in writing. – while high representative borell’s visit to russia was disastrous, ill-timed, and ill-planned, it laid bare fundamental divergences and issues in the eu-russia relationship. first and foremost, it is time for the eu to adopt a more robust posture toward russia. president putin has shown his disregard for the eu’s criticisms and condemnations and continues to pursue an aggressive foreign policy with impunity. second, we cannot allow russia to exploit economic interconnectedness as a political tool or coercive instrument. more specifically, the nord stream 2 project must be stopped immediately and member states must expand the targeted sanctions package on those responsible for human rights violations in russia. it is altogether clear that politics and business are not separate domains, and that the eu must not be held hostage by ‘strings attached.’ third, the eu’s relations with third states must always be built on the principles of democracy, rule of law, and human rights, russia cannot be an exception to this rule. mr borell’s failure to stand up for these principles was an embarrassment for the eu and a disappointing signal to those fighting for democracy around the world. russia has made its disdain entirely clear, and the eu must act accordingly.
in writing. there is no debate today about whether the european union should engage in a dialogue with russia. of course we should. in foreign relations, it is essential to talk to everyone. the question is, what kind of dialogue should it be? a dialogue between partners or one based on unequal treatment? and if it is the latter, how should you react? how far can we let russia go? putin's russia is breaking international law, over and over again. the regime is filling prisons with defenders of democracy and human rights. the propaganda machine lies and deceives. dictators and bullies like putin respond only to strength. our european strength is to act together, to act decisively. sanctions on the russian regime and oligarchs, aid to the democratic opposition in russia. and european solidarity, without projects like nord stream 2, which paralyse that solidarity. we must draw appropriate conclusions from your visit to moscow, mr high representative.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the humanitarian and political situation in yemen (2021/2539 ((rsp)).
attention to the ambassador. madam deputy, please do not violate the rules. you may not display posters or photographs during your speech in the plenary.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i agree with all members that the only solution is to look for an inclusive political agreement. the end of the conflict in yemen will come only from an agreement from the parties and the big powers who are behind them. that’s why we should try to continue promoting dialogue and not choose sides, to support the united nations-led peace-making efforts. we have to continue leading a humanitarian response, including unimpeded humanitarian access. we are trying to use any opportunity that we can in order to increase other donors’ engagement as the multilateral humanitarian response is completely underfunded. i can assure you that we are doing our utmost. we have limited resources but we are devoting all of them and we are using our influence with saudi arabia, with iran, and now, together with the biden administration, i think that we can put more pressure in order to stop this war by proxy, because yemen is a war by proxy: saudi arabia and iran and the other actors in the region. and yes, it is as awful as you can show through pictures in any kind of material that we already know, the figures are really terrible. i was talking the other day with my friend miliband, the head of the ngo rescue, about this catastrophic war and the humanitarian consequences. we, as the european union, have a role to play. it’s a modest one because the only solution is to stop the flow of arms to both parties and to put strong political pressure on the countries who are supporting this war, filling it with arms and resources. the last decision of the trump administration, declaring the houthi rebels a terrorist organisation, for example. i’m sorry, someone will say that i am criticising a decision by the us. yes, i am criticising this decision taken by the trump administration at the last minute, because it was going to create a lot of problems for the supply of resources and food to the people in high need. and happily, this decision has been reconsidered by the new administration. so more political engagement and more financial resources and more pressure on the actors. this is, in practical terms, what we can do and what we are trying to do, until the limit of our capacities.
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 11 february 2021. the following table is added: look at the minutes of the meeting. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. we must accept the signs of appeasement from the new us administration, which has, on the one hand, removed the houthis from the list of terrorist organizations and, on the other hand, distanced itself from the saudi coalition. the humanitarian situation, one of the worst in the world with nearly four million internally displaced people and emergency aid struggling to reach its intended recipients, has been further aggravated by the locust outbreak that swept across the horn of africa and yemen last year. on both sides, this human tragedy has had the worst abuses, including child rights abuses through, for example, allegations of the use of child soldiers, which have targeted both the coalition and the houthis - it is noteworthy that in june 2020, the un nevertheless removed the coalition from its list of serious violations of children's rights. it is therefore commendable that this resolution highlights all these facts and breaks with the bias which has characterised the european union's attitude to this conflict so far.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in myanmar/burma (2021/2540 (rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, as you know, on 1 february 2021, the myanmar military declared a state of emergency for one year in myanmar. all powers were transferred to the commander—in—chief of the army. the opening of the democratically elected parliament was cancelled, hundreds of people were arrested, including the president and the state counsellor, aung san suu kyi, and the chief channels have been shut down and facebook blocked. this event abruptly turned back the clock of history in myanmar. the path towards democracy, which had started in 2011, and the will of the people, as expressed in the november elections, has been reversed once again by the military power. the military has already appointed new ministers, trying to establish facts on the ground. it’s crucial to act swiftly and strongly and in coordination with our partners. specifically, i already issued a statement already on 1 february. on 2 february, the european union issued another statement agreed by all member states and contributed to a g7 statement. so first my statement quickly, engaging only my responsibility but quickly, secondly, a 27 member state statement engaging the responsibility of the foreign affairs council, and then contributing to a g7 statement. yes, we are currently reviewing all our actions and we have three tools to use. first, to consider additional targeted sanctions on individuals and business owned by the military. as you know, in this country the military are a big economic power and own an important part of the economic infrastructure of the country. second, to review our development assistance and, third, to assess the use of the everything but arms trade preferences. our policy response should follow some basic principles: first, to try to effect change, second, to maintain channels of dialogue, and, third, to avoid affecting the broader population, which are not guilty and they should not be punished. we are looking carefully at all these actions and, if the foreign affairs council on 22 february gives the political guidance, we will ensure we are doing nothing to legitimise the actions of the military, while trying to maintain support for the people of myanmar. the review is taking into account how closely we work with the government and its institutions from a legal, financial and technical perspective, as well as the impact on beneficiaries. at the same time, we should avoid rushing into measures that would adversely affect the most vulnerable part of the population. this often happens when you take restrictive measures. in the end it is the poorest among the poor who bear the consequences. withdrawing preferences would damage the civilian garment sector, while leaving military business unscathed. five hundred thousand workers would be at risk, mostly women, so we cannot afford to take these kinds of measures. third, coordination. we have been in close contact with all partners since the outset of the crisis. we have engaged with asean, india, the us and australia, and also discussed the situation yesterday with the chinese foreign minister. we all agree on the need for quick responses to avoid allowing a fait accompli that could last quite a long time. we now need to develop a robust response to this unacceptable seizure of power, which reverses ten years of democratic transition. this is what i had to inform you, honourable members, about the situation in myanmar. i am looking forward to your debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not going to go into detail. the many reactions to the military coup in myanmar in recent years have been clear and they are right. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is unacceptable. it is good that we are all shouting together to support the people of myanmar and also to work towards and support and call for the restoration of the democratic situation in myanmar. but we must be careful not to spill the child with the bath. and that is why i am very grateful to you, mr vice-president, for your comments. we must keep a differentiated view. the resolution we are adopting this week on the situation in myanmar mentions possible sanctions and restrictions, for example the lifting of trade facilitation measures such as everything but arms. it is a possible means of expressing our strong protest. but it 's also important to me: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the sanctions we have often imposed have sometimes missed their target in the past and have hit civil society and the civil economy hard, rather than the military and the parallel economy. at the same time, a new sanction will further weaken our position as an economic power in the region. we have only eight percent of foreign investment in myanmar today. china, on the other hand, is already the second largest investor in the country after singapore. and if we look at the background of the coup and the current developments, i have the impression that china will adapt very, very quickly to the new situation. i think we'll be able to take advantage of that. and that's why it's very important to me that we have a dialogue, that we make that clear, but that we really think about when is the right moment to impose sanctions. in this sense, i am saying clearly 'yes' to a close observation of the situation. but blind actionism must not help beijing and china in the end, but we must really look at the people in the country. and in that sense. i would like to thank you very much for your comments today.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. madam president, i support the people of myanmar in their demonstrations against the military coup. that is why i will observe a minute's silence in support of them. (the speaker immediately began his minute of silence. it was interrupted by the president shortly afterwards.)
mr. speaker, please take the floor, or we'll give the floor to the next speaker. madam ambassador, please take the floor, or i'll give the floor to the next speaker. ∀the president gives the floor to the next speaker)
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, the situation in myanmar following the coup d’état on 1 february 2021 is extremely difficult. after the military seized power of the country and detained numerous top government figures, the situation has only escalated. despite their martial law, the digital blackout created by the military and the limited ability to gain information, we see ongoing protests on the streets which are met with rubber bullets, water cannons and tear gas. it is imperative that this crackdown on the protesters does not turn deadly again, as it did in 2007. myanmar is home to around 135 major ethnic groups and seven ethnic minority states who are constantly discriminated against. the human rights record in myanmar is appalling. in addition to rohingya genocide, other minorities face human rights violations as well. the council should impose targeted sanctions to those responsible for the coup, as well as those responsible for what might constitute acts of genocide against rohingya. those responsible for human rights violations in myanmar must be brought to justice.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, indeed, today’s news tells us that the situation in myanmar is escalating. police have fired rubber bullets against peaceful demonstrators as thousands have defied a ban on protesting in the administrative capital of naypyidaw. but also, european businesses should be aware of the risks of doing business with this military conglomeration, which the high representative has mentioned. there should be no links in the value chain of european businesses to the myanmar military’s economic imperium. i would like to highlight that here we have yet another crystal clear example that there should be no complicity with repression, grave human rights violations or environmental destruction. the eu commission should, with this aim, urgently produce an advisory for businesses on how to do business in myanmar under these very serious conditions. i could highlight the japanese brewing company kirin holdings. i’m sure you may have tasted its products when having your sushi. kirin holdings is among those companies that have already been withdrawing their joint ventures with the military because they find it intolerable to be complicit in anything that has to do with a coup. furthermore, the eu needs to launch an investigation on the everything but arms (eba) programme. there should be an investigation into the trade preferences. are they benefiting the myanmar military’s conglomerates or ordinary people? i have no opinion on the outcome of this investigation as standing rapporteur in the committee on international trade, but i think it’s urgent to do that investigation. selective action could already be taken now. there could only be preferences benefiting private civil entities, if there are any. so instead of preferences, eu sanctions on the military’s conglomerates are needed.
on behalf of the ecr group. ladies and gentlemen! as vice-president of the asean delegation to the european parliament, i have been following with great interest the recent events in burma, where a military coup took place on 1 february just before the new parliament was sworn in. it is clear that the elections held in this country on november 8th, in which the national league for democracy party won a huge majority of votes, were rigged, and then martial law and military dictatorship were imposed. if we add to this the fact that the coup also resulted in the arrest of the president of that country, as well as about 200 very important politicians of burma, then i think that as the european union we should take what is happening in that country very seriously. first of all, the actions of the military leaders must be condemned as always and they must be called upon to release the political leaders and all those arrested immediately and to take steps to stabilise the situation in the country with the active participation of the european union.
the left group. mr president, mr high representative, the coup d'état of 1 february is a clear violation of the constitution. more than 100,000 people have peacefully protested against the coup, more than 160 people have been arrested and martial law has been declared with mandatory curfews and a ban on gatherings of more than five people. the military involved not only directly interfered with the democratic order of the country, but there are several allegations of their involvement in corruption schemes, concentration of power and control of the economy. the secretary-general of the united nations, antónio guterres, has described this coup as absolutely unacceptable and several countries have already condemned the military coup. we therefore condemn this military coup and express our support for the people of myanmar in their peaceful and legitimate struggle for democracy. but we also do not forget that serious human rights violations persist in the country, in particular against the rohingya minority and that the democratic government of myanmar itself has failed and has failed to recognize this population, and even an ethnic cleansing took place in 2017 as recognized by international authorities that led to a mass exodus of people from the country. despite all the international appeals the rohingya continue to be persecuted. we condemn this military coup, but we also call attention to the rohingya and to the fundamental importance of human rights in myanmar.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear mr borrell, dear colleagues, democrats in myanmar, or burma, fear for their life and country, and as we are all democrats, we must take a stand against a military coup. it seems that the action of ms suu kyi, who tried to limit the power of the military, led to a coup, in a part of the world where the eu has little or no influence and china is the major factor. it needs no debate that the coup should be condemned by the eu, as mr borrell correctly did. i have only one question. does mr borrell agree that considering our limited influence in this part of the world, our best chance to contribute to positive developments lie in coordination of our actions, in close relations to the united states?
madam president, as the european parliament we have always followed developments in myanmar very closely. in a number of resolutions throughout the last few years we have, for instance, strongly condemned all past and present human rights violations, especially against the rohingya population. since 2015, and previous speakers have underlined this, the european union has politically and financially supported myanmar’s process of democratic transition. we have undertaken enormous efforts to promote peace, human rights and development in this country. unfortunately, all these positive developments have been abruptly reversed by the recent coup. this coup was a clear violation of myanmar’s constitution, which we ought to all strongly condemn. i am deeply concerned by the detention of political leaders and civil society activists, including state counsellor aung san suu kyi and president win myint. i call upon the military to immediately end the state of emergency. i call on the military to restore power to the democratically elected government. i call upon the military to respect human rights and the rule of law, and i call upon the military to release all those unjustly detained. the november election results, as well as the constitution, must be respected, and the national parliament should be convened at the earliest opportunity. power should be returned to democratically elected representatives and to a civilian government as soon as possible. for the european union, all instruments should be on the table in order to react. as the european parliament, we should send a strong message that we stand with the people of myanmar who want to see a democratic future of their country. high representative, thank you for your good words on this issue.
madam president, the coup d’état carried out last week in myanmar by the armed forces is a clear violation of the myanmar constitution. it means a dramatic break from the country’s democratic transition process. the international community must condemn it. let us not forget that myanmar benefits from the european union’s everything but arms scheme, designed to encourage the development of the world’s poorest countries. we need to make sure that this scheme does not profit an unelected military power, but its people. we need to make sure that humanitarian and development aid is not channelled through the myanmar government’s networks to the military. last but not least, the eu reaction to situations such as this could be so much more efficient if the union had more tools in this area. the past has shown us repeatedly that 27 member states on their own and limited coordination from the eu institutions is not a recipe for a strong union in the global context.
madam president, if we were tasked to define the benefits of the association agreement with ukraine, the dcfta alone could be a sufficient answer. since 2016, our bilateral trade has grown steadily, and the eu is now ukraine’s largest trading partner and by far the most important partner in the process of reforms. the pandemic has somewhat hampered our mutual success, but we cannot allow it to undermine ukraine’s achievements in the field of macroeconomic governance, for example. the eu’s mfa loans, covid—19 response packages and technical assistance programmes should be commended and extended further to allow for the roll—out of vaccination programmes. however, we have to expect full respect for the provisions of the agreement with regard to regulatory approximation, increased efforts to fight corruption, stronger protection of property rights and guarantees of freedom of association and collective bargaining rights for workers. we should also urge our ukrainian partners to create a predictable regulatory environment with an independent judiciary and limited influence of state—owned enterprises and oligarch—based interest groups, in order to attract much—needed foreign direct investment. this is needed to reap the full benefit of our growing economic cooperation.
madam president! since the entry into force of the association agreement, ukraine has implemented a number of reform measures, including the adoption of laws on land and banking trade and the adoption of temporary appeal arbitration. however, the reform process in ukraine should be deepened as the completion rate of the tasks related to the implementation of the association agreement has decreased over the last two years. first, ukraine should increase its efforts to bring its legislation closer to eu standards on food safety and animal welfare. secondly, it is necessary to address the rural-urban disparities as soon as possible through the introduction of development policies for social, economic and territorial cohesion. poland also welcomes the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the extension of the measures to the dairy sector. cooperation with ukraine is beneficial for the european union, but its rules should be respected by both sides.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i agree with you on the bottom line: the association agreement with ukraine needs a critical, constructive and comprehensive revision. we must examine why the agreement did not achieve what a majority of the ukrainian population had hoped for. their daily lives, their experiences, are the criteria of truth. what must we change to overcome the social crisis for the wider sections of the population and to secure european environmental standards? how can the rule of law be experienced? how can we help to reduce corruption, stop tax evasion and avoidance, free the country from the debt-infested vicious circle of macro-financial assistance, finally smash the oligarchic structures of any colour? what changes are needed to the agreement to prevent the trade balance from shifting further in favour of the eu with the lion's share going to germany and poland? we must treat ukraine and its people throughout the country as partners. we need much more cooperation, including in the form of twinning projects. and yes, how can we strengthen peace efforts and redevelop economic, including trilateral, relations with our traditional partner russia in accordance with the minsk protocols?
i am not going to say that the commissioner has not been consulted. we need reliable and solid partners, especially beyond our eastern border. further deepening economic and political cooperation with ukraine is undoubtedly a process that is both necessary and beneficial for both sides. its long-term objective should be to further integrate our economies and create the conditions for ukraine's future accession to the european union. kiev continues to face russian aggression, which not only destabilizes the region but also poses a threat to european security. reforming the state structures in these conditions is a very difficult task. this is worth considering when assessing the pace of the fight against corruption and judicial reform. in the difficult conditions of the pandemic, our solidarity is of great importance, which is why the financial support package for kiev is an important initiative that will confirm that, in addition to good advice and intentions, cooperation with the european union simply pays off.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank my colleague mr gahler for his excellent report. commissioner, mr gahler, you were right, ukraine is one of the european union's priority partners. we have, in fact, expressed our support and our commitment to the full independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine, within its internationally recognised borders, on numerous occasions in this parliament. during the visit of minister for the temporarily occupied territories of ukraine oleksii reznikov to croatia in october last year, the croatian government stressed support for the territorial integrity, including ukraine's european path. croatia also expressed its willingness to share experience from the process of the peaceful reintegration of croatian danube into the constitutional order of the republic of croatia in january 1998. despite the positive steps we have seen since the summit of the leaders of the eastern partnership countries, the member states and the european institutions under the croatian presidency of the council held in zagreb last june, there remain problems that remain a strong challenge to the future progress of our relations. more tools are needed to spur crucial reforms, and we see this particularly in the example of the western balkan countries and here in ukraine. we are aware of and alert to the problem of corruption, the difficulty of consolidating the rule of law, implementing socioeconomic reforms and strengthening the role of citizens in a democratic society. with the growing geopolitical turmoil in the region, but also in the entire european union's neighbourhood, further strengthening the partnership with ukraine should be one of our foreign policy objectives. ukraine's progress in implementing its commitments under the agreement is visible as is strong support for closer ties with the european union and nato. therefore, we must respond to the expectations of the ukrainian people.
madam president! the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the agreement on the establishment of a european atomic energy community ('the agreement') and on the implementation of the agreement on the establishment of a european atomic energy community ('the agreement'). but there is still much to be done. the union considers it essential to complete the reforms it has started, particularly in the areas of the rule of law, the electoral system, the fight against corruption and the rights of minorities, including the polish minority. he is also concerned about the resurgence of nationalism. in addition to the free trade area, the free movement of people is also an important factor in ukraine's rapprochement with the european union. let us remember that one of the conditions for successful integration is to increase the number of contacts between people and to build a bottom-up response. unfortunately, these opportunities are significantly complicated by the current pandemic. in view of this, we should aim to transfer part of the vaccines available to the european union and its member states to ukraine. this gesture of solidarity will certainly help to build a friendly relationship with the ukrainian people and to better implement the association agreement with the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! europeans have trusted the european union and the member states of the european commission to lead the vaccination process effectively. every european who wants it, who has the will, has the right to have the vaccine in time. our future, our health, our economy - all of which we share in the idea of the european union - depends on it. but the question today is: has the european commission managed to cope with this process? did she fail? you gave poland as an example of success. yes, i agree, the polish government is doing great with vaccinations and could vaccinate many more poles in the meantime, all those who want to take advantage of the opportunity to vaccinate. there's only one, but there's not enough vaccine. and yet the european commission, by signing the agreement also on behalf of poland, by taking over this part of the responsibility for the health of european citizens belonging to the member states, has also taken on the obligation to effectively enforce these agreements. on february 8, another batch of one of the vaccines was to arrive in poland. it's due on february 11th, and not 100% as agreed, but 20% less. what's next? what will the next months and weeks be like? today, it is the european commission's top priority to effectively enforce the agreements that have been signed so that each member state receives the amount of vaccines it needs. there's nothing more important to do today. solidarity is important, but efficiency is also important. a lot of words, a lot of declarations... you were talking to the commissioner here about the future. and well, let's form groups, let's form teams but let's make them effective. does the european commission, beyond the ritual instruments of indignation, declarations and resolutions of various kinds that are being adopted, have an effective tool to enforce the agreements that have been signed? in this agreement, the european commission committed itself to the member states, to the europeans, to get the right amount of vaccines to those countries at the right time. this is the most important task today and the european commission must focus on it.
madam president! the lack of overall drug safety in europe is not a new problem. for many years, there have been no clear recommendations and instruments to support national drug safety plans, and the inability to meet the necessary vaccine production indirectly demonstrates the lack of innovative manufacturing capacity on our continent. how does the commission intend to provide real support to stakeholders in the vaccine production and supply chain and does the commission consider additional negotiations and talks in the context of consistent security building at union and national level in a spirit of subsidiarity to ensure real security across the continent? yes, it's true that we are stronger together, but the strength of the chain depends on the strength of its weakest link.
madam president! we're all talking about vaccine deliveries in the second, third and fourth quarters of this year. but we can't be short-sighted, because the pandemic isn't going to end in the fourth quarter of this year, because we've decided that it will. it may be going on in the first, second, third quarter of next year, and we have to think about it. maybe the virus will mutate. we may have to vaccinate people again. so we're going to have to negotiate with the corporations, and negotiating with the corporations is not fun, it's not diplomacy, it's a tough business game. i know this because i've been doing this on behalf of the polish government for many years. every entry, every comma, and especially the consequences of non-delivery, counts. we hope the commission president will use all the tools at her disposal to ensure that the companies meet their deliveries. we also hear that there are member states which are breaking the rules of the community and are already buying vaccines from other countries. so i'm asking the commission and i'd like a straight answer. is the commission negotiating today with the manufacturer of the russian sputnik vaccine? is it being considered for the european market? i am pleased to hear that the president of the commission is announcing the establishment of a joint parliamentary-commission committee to oversee the procurement and ordering of vaccines. that's very good information. president von der leyen, we want to stand by your side to make it easier for you to do what is very difficult today. the companies can't dictate europe, we must have the engine. you need the tools to fight, and we want to help you do that. you are fighting for the health and lives of europeans today, and we want to help you.
madam president! news of the launch of vaccination against sars-cov-2 has sparked a wide range of emotions, most notably hope that the pandemic will end and things will return to normal. unfortunately, in the past few weeks, there have been problems with the supply of vaccines. this has not only disrupted the work of medical facilities but also caused tremendous stress for patients who are scheduled for vaccination. especially since it's the oldest group of people who deserve special treatment. the elderly people who are registered for vaccination are not the names in the lists, but people who are often helpless, sick, needing the help of loved ones. changing deadlines at the last minute, often on the same day, has a domino effect, disrupting the work and lives of many people. let us remember that the virus does not respect borders, it does not respect nationality, it does not respect national egoism and the particular interests of global corporations. so i'm appealing to european leaders and to vaccine makers: we have a powerful tool now in the form of a vaccine. now it's our collective responsibility to end this pandemic, if and when we do. to save lives, it's not enough to invent a vaccine, you have to administer it. i therefore ask the european commission to strictly enforce the terms of the agreements with vaccine manufacturers and to carefully analyse the information on the delays in deliveries.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, maybe a little bit of a retrospective at the beginning. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. when i raised the question of pandemics, laboratory cooperation, specialisation in the production of medicines, the production of new medicines, vaccines, anti-venoms, in a very different debate three years ago, the member states replied that this was not in question at all, that it was a matter for the member states. i think we must stop being so self-centred and not always start acting in the crisis and then go on to the typical bashing game: the member states are to blame, the commission is to blame, and we also have a president and a commissioner to blame. we're not perfect. we make mistakes in this crisis and we learn from this crisis. but what we have to learn is to act faster geostrategically, to manufacture and produce vaccines, but also medicines, again in our own countries, in the european union itself, to do some of it and to provide ourselves strategically. we also need to ensure that there is not just a basic distrust of pharmaceutical companies. but they also have to invest in the future. there would be no vaccine today without the european research council, which has supported the production and scientific activity in the field of mrna vaccines when the pharmaceutical giants did not want it. we shouldn't be calling each other names in a crisis. and a final sentence, please, madam president, which is particularly dear to my heart: dear stella kyriakides, i am extremely sorry for the campaign of incitement against you that is being carried out in my country. i'm really sorry about that. that is simply not appropriate in a crisis like this. everyone is allowed to make mistakes, but it's not possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president von der leyen, europe is still suffering from too many deaths from the pandemic, but thanks to science we have launched the largest mass vaccination campaign ever. however, the quantities of vaccine available are not sufficient to meet the needs and europe must therefore promote concrete collaboration between companies and the exchange of best practices to accelerate the production and large-scale delivery of vaccines, overcoming limitations on patents and intellectual property and using clauses already in international treaties. we've seen how important it is to be united and to work together towards a common goal, overcoming prejudice, suspicion and partisan interests. making vaccines and drug treatments available to everyone, as soon as possible, is a moral and political duty that concerns us all, and we don't have time because the virus is still circulating, mutating and killing too many. i have great confidence in you, mr president, and i am convinced that together we will be able to meet this challenge.
madam president, i think a lot has been said about the need to procure the vaccines rapidly in order to restore trust, but i think more needs to be done because it’s not just the result that counts for trust, it’s also the process and the way there, and there i think we still have a few steps to take. president von der leyen, i heard you say ‘we must learn lessons. things went wrong’. i think it is important that those in the commission who are responsible actually assume that responsibility. i think, in order to get there, we need transparency, not just on the contracts, but also on the whole process of negotiations, including the role of the commission, decisions that have been taken and the role of the member states, who have been very, very quiet so far. i think responsibility is a wider issue in the commission. we have now witnessed for a couple of weeks the mess around the vaccine procurement. we have seen the mess around article 16 and last week the mess around ‘borrellgate’. i note – with some bitterness, i have to say – that, last year, commissioner hogan was made to step down very rapidly for much lesser offences. where does the bar lie, madam president?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. unlike the first lockdown, europe has now acted together. it's supposed to have learned from its mistakes, but success hasn't come. this time, however, it is not the member states but the greed of the companies for profit that is to blame, despite the fact that billions have been poured into research and vaccine contracts by the eu. but making money off the pandemic is another example of the system's weakness. this is about the public health, which must give way to profit. i asked you an official question last week, and i'll repeat it here: what would have happened if this pandemic had been dealt with not by the rules of profit maximization, but by the rules of the commons? what if we focused solely on the good of the community? corona is a break in many areas and it has to be in healthcare as well. so, no more profit-driven health care. let's work together to fight for the commons economy, including and especially in fighting this pandemic.
madam president! widespread vaccination is a matter of life and death today, but it is also a matter of economy, of sustaining european families and of rescuing failing companies. a common european vaccination strategy is the only way forward if the union is to be a union of free movement of people, capital, goods and services. we need to build resilience on a european level. getting back to normal requires that we also defeat covid-19 in our neighbors, whether it's in the uk, ukraine, or north africa. no single eu country would have this bargaining power, this price preference, and many countries would not have access to vaccines at all in such a short time. the union's pharmaceutical strategy aims to restore pharmaceutical sovereignty. the response to this unprecedented covid-19 crisis must therefore be to develop the union's internal potential rather than to further deepen its dependence on others. agreements are to be kept. the european union cannot therefore pay with credibility for the mistakes of companies. the threat of hundreds of thousands more victims in europe justifies, for example, an ultimatum to take over patent rights. if a company can't meet its obligations, it has to find a partner who can and bear all the costs. the european commission and the member states must enforce this and prepare measures to support the vaccination rate.
mr president, at the level of the european union, a common effort has been made to take all possible measures to contain the pandemic and to find a vaccine. this pathway is supported by financial support to the pharmaceutical industry at an important stage of research. today, just one year after the crisis began, the availability of the vaccine is not at the pace we expected, and that tells us that we need to increase our own production. but you're doing it with wisdom in this unprecedented time with political wisdom and operational tools. the european commission's engagement in the long-term process of jointly providing a high-quality, effective and safe vaccine was driven by the best interests and intentions and solidarity. the use of only own resources would create a gap between economically unequal member states. but what we want is information and transparency. our citizens want it, and after a year of living under pandemic rules, they deserve it. i welcome your intention to communicate clearly, to create a platform for sharing data. i understand that we're in a difficult time, that all the cards may not be on the table, but without accurate and clear information, we can't make decisions and have valid arguments. we're fighting on multiple fronts right now. we want to preserve the lives of our citizens, ensure their existence, fight disinformation, the anti-vaccination movement, preserve the economy and ultimately we want to vaccinate our citizens. i welcome the introduction of the transparency mechanism and i wonder what our contractual options are in case the pharmaceutical companies do not respect the contractual rules again. there is no single cure for all political and social problems, but the most powerful weapon we possess, the vaccine, of course figuratively, must not be a weapon of division of our values.
member of the commission. – mr president, ms zacarias, madam president, honourable members, let me first of all thank you for this vibrant debate, which is a testament of how this house has this very important role and how important this issue is that we are debating here today. i want to start from where president von der leyen left off. we are doing our best to fight the virus. across the union and across the world it is now abundantly clear that we will only meet this challenge if we all stick together. we are all fighting to defeat a common enemy: covid. the vaccines against this pandemic are the key to unlocking the door out of this crisis. we will continue to work day and night to ensure that these vaccines are brought to our citizens and by the end of the summer we want 70% of adult europeans to be vaccinated. we want to ensure that this happens in a fair and equitable way, in a way which ensures that this strategic public good is distributed as quickly as possible to all — to all our member states, fairly and equally, regardless of size, always with their full agreement and in full transparency. a total of 26 million vaccine doses have been delivered in europe since december, and more than 17 million people have been vaccinated in every corner of europe. the pace of vaccinations can, and should, increase and we are doing our best to ensure that this happens in the coming weeks. let us recall the three fundamental points which are at the very basis of the debate today. firstly, that it was right that we europeans procured the vaccine together in solidarity. secondly, that we have a moral duty to show the same solidarity to partners in our neighbourhood and across the world. and thirdly, that we are already drawing on the lessons of what we can improve — the regulatory environment, the industrial ecosystem, the operational environment and the predictability our member states should have to roll out vaccinations. we have drawn these lessons and we are already acting on them. now let me turn to some of your questions. firstly, on transparency. i have stated several times in this house that, with the eu vaccine strategy, we have always strived for as much transparency as possible every single step of the way. we owe it to our institutions and our citizens to be transparent and accountable in our decisions, and this is the only way we can build trust in this critical area. in order to enhance our cooperation even further, and as mentioned by the president, we propose the creation of a contact group on vaccines. this will allow us to regularly exchange views on the most pressing issues and, most importantly, to work together on finding solutions. i welcome the fact that following our request, three of our contracts, as you know, have been made publicly available. tomorrow the johnson & johnson contract will be available in a reading room. we will persist with other companies in order to obtain their agreement to make our contracts available to the members of the parliament and public at large as quickly as possible. when it comes to vaccine production and deliveries, there are indeed many lessons to be learned from this process, and it’s perfectly natural for everyone to expect a rapid and seamless roll-out of vaccines. this is precisely why we had spread our investments across a broad portfolio of vaccine candidates and why we fixed the number of doses and delivery schedules in our agreements. i can assure you that we acted as fast as we could with, and on behalf of, all 27 member states when it comes to securing doses and investing in production capacity with companies in looking at safety. this was never about only prices or being difficult. it was about ensuring that our citizens would have access to the safest and most effective vaccines, that we would have strong provisions on liability, and that we had all the safety procedures in place. and all these are vital. we did expect that there would be hurdles along the way, including unexpected ones. we can for sure go back and find things that we could have done differently, even better, but now our focus is on ensuring that vaccines reach our citizens and the rest of the world as quickly as possible, working with companies to eliminate bottlenecks in production and also looking at adjusting and stepping up vaccine production for the new variants. what we need now is an immediate response to the urgent threat of coronavirus variants and what we need going forward is the capacity at eu level to produce vaccines independently. as of next week, we will launch a biodefence preparedness programme, our first action under the new health emergency preparedness and response authority (hera). we will launch a public-private collaboration to develop and manufacture vaccines at scale to respond to the threat of new variants more forcefully. we know that preparedness is everything, but preparedness requires foresight, both in the current crisis and for any future ones. honourable members, we fully share your sense of urgency. we’re on the same side and there are many pressing issues at play. you have raised many of them today and there will undoubtedly be more challenges ahead. the emergence of new variants only adds to this emergency and the sense of urgency. president von der leyen said that this is a marathon, and it is. and we need to show the same level of determination, resilience and unity. this is why we need to cooperate closely with this house to find sustainable solutions to these crucial issues, because we are in this together. collaboration and trust offer the surest path to overcoming this crisis, and this is what true solidarity is about.
acting president of the council. mr president, madam president of the commission, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the covid-19 pandemic has underlined the importance of working together and what this means for the european project. it also reminded us of the need to take bold and courageous action to address common challenges. solidarity, coordination, cooperation should continue to guide our response to covid-19. that is what the citizens are asking us to do and that is what we must do. this parliament has indeed set a good example today by approving the recovery and resilience mechanism. it does not take much imagination to imagine the chaos we could be in if there had not been a common strategy for vaccination. we would be competing with each other for scarce resources, without security and without fairness. we would not have taken advantage of the scale of pan-european scientific power. our voice and our capacity for action would be much smaller. we are stronger together. and many members of this parliament have said so here today, coming from various political families, showing clearly the need for interinstitutional solidarity to find the best solutions and at the same time achieve what has been asked here: more transparency and monitoring in this process. as much as there may be less positive points, we must all recognise that this european solidarity, as regards the vaccination strategy, has been a determining factor in increasing the capacity of the national health systems of the member states to respond to the pandemic. we therefore support the commission's efforts. we support your efforts, madam president. thank you for your continued determination. we will continue to support these efforts with a firm commitment that only then can we have more and better solutions in common. that's our duty. that is what the citizens are asking us to do. it is about working with ambition, with realism, with efficiency, to increase the production of vaccines, to better manage the issue of borders, to improve the level of research against the different variants of the virus and to eventually also bring new treatments. it is to work together to combat disinformation to improve the level of our international cooperation. these parliamentary debates are an important part of european democracy, they are an essential element in the relationship between the different institutions and they are a direct bridge to our citizens. and that is why i end with a call: let us renew this feeling of unity, of solidarity, so that we can emerge from this pandemic as a stronger, more resilient, more just european union. it's time to deliver.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the adoption of the european vaccination strategy has been a wise decision, based on the principles of equality and european solidarity, to bring the vaccine to hundreds of millions of people without distinction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. we also call on the commission to be more transparent in the negotiation and enforcement of contracts with pharmaceutical companies. the eu has invested a lot of public money in vaccine research and development, so we are calling for parliament to have a monitoring instrument with the european commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. finally, we socialists are committed to maintaining our global commitment beyond our borders to those who need our solidarity and we call for vaccines to be a global public good that reaches the developing countries.
in writing. at the start of the crisis, we all knew that it normally takes ten years to develop and deploy new vaccines. this time, we've got the vaccine ready in ten months, and the safety of the vaccine is guaranteed. i consider this, amongst others, a very great achievement of the european commission. i am convinced that the joint procurement of vaccines in the european union was the right decision. the separate procurement of vaccines by member states would have been economically pointless and would have placed member states in an unequal situation. it would also be epidemiologically pointless, as containment of the virus in a limited area would not be sustainable. in areas not protected by vaccines, the virus could spread and mutate, and this would also pose a threat to the vaccinated population. i support the european commission in its fight against the virus.
in writing. the covid-19 epidemic continues to impose enormous human and economic costs on the european union and the world, and only a global vaccination campaign, through the administration of an effective and safe vaccine, will save many lives and bring us out of the crisis. it is therefore essential that the european commission's efforts to strengthen and accelerate the eu covid-19 vaccine strategy continue, as the european institutions have for the first time taken responsibility for a unified eu approach, despite the limitations of current health governance. this unitary approach has made it possible to support research and rapid development of vaccines (which typically take more than 10 years) in order to ensure equal access to vaccination for all european citizens. however, the various critical issues that have emerged in recent months, in particular those relating to production problems, still need to be addressed. it is therefore essential to increase the production of vaccines, particularly in europe, to increase transparency in contracts with pharmaceutical companies, given the large outlay of public funds to these companies, and to ensure that solidarity and financial support are extended to the most vulnerable third countries.
in writing. i consider that the decision to negotiate on behalf of the eu member states by the european union is a good one. the obstacles faced by member states in terms of vaccine costs, quantities available and delivery would be insurmountable if a negotiated solution were to be found. i am sure that there will be equal treatment in terms of access to vaccines. the commission has also proposed that the european union should be given the opportunity to present its proposals to the council and the european parliament. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the people of europe, and i am pleased to see that the commission is now taking the initiative to make the necessary changes to the existing legislation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme.
in writing. – i am sincerely concerned by the recent reports of delivery delays and dose reductions compared to the forecast for the first quarter of 2021, regarding producers biontech-pfizer and astrazeneca. i believe that these delays seriously undermine the union and member states vaccination plans’ objectives and the total effectiveness of the european covid-19 vaccine strategy and the union’s exit from the health emergency, including in terms of recovery economic. as done for the introduction of generic drugs for hiv at affordable prices 20 years ago, and the distribution of another vaccine during the polio epidemic in the 1950s, to guarantee widespread and equitable access to vaccines on a global scale, i ask the european union: to evaluate to support the adoption of a moratorium that allows the suspension of patents and the sharing of technology, data, know-how, allowing generics manufacturers to contribute to increasing global availability, including through support for india and south africa’s proposal at the wto; to evaluate, as a member of the wto, subject to an appropriate legislative act, the granting of a compulsory license for the production of covid-19 vaccines to public agencies or a generic drug manufacturer, according to trips and the doha declaration.
in writing. the eu strategy for vaccine procurement and distribution is proving to be a major factor in limiting rapid access to vaccination. the difficulties are not temporary. they result from the underlying option that was taken. the eu has publicly funded the production of the vaccines. you funded the r&d phase, risk insurance and you bought the vaccines in advance. however, he waived any ownership rights to the invention he financed. the pace of vaccine production is thus determined by the production capacity of multinational pharmaceutical companies and by the way they manage the process in accordance with their commercial interests. vaccines can and should be mass produced in all laboratories prepared to do so. by taking advantage of all existing productive capacity and by boosting it, extending it, in all countries. this requires that public health take precedence over intellectual property rights. however, worldwide, at least a dozen vaccines have already been approved by various national regulatory authorities. their evaluation has been confirming positive efficacy and safety levels. some of these vaccines, produced by public institutions, are licensed for manufacture in countries other than those in which they were developed, through agreements that do not involve astronomical patent costs.
in writing. the state of play of the eu covid-19 vaccine strategy is another example of the european commission failing on important issues. it is difficult to find a justification for why the eu institutions are failing once again in the face of a crisis. the inactivity of the beginning of the pandemic was never to be repeated. the lessons to be learned from the mistakes that had been made. but once again, the eu has failed, it is at the bottom of the world in terms of vaccination, and it doesn't know how to get out of it. the commentators are clear: if the chairman knew that the contractual clauses did not guarantee delivery on time, it was a serious mistake, and if she did not know, it was an even greater embarrassment. the governments of the member states have presented ambitious plans for vaccination for all, but these promises have been shown to be lies by eu officials. the margin of error has been exceeded. i think i'm not the only one who has seen that the agenda of the issues that are important to brussels are mostly irrelevant to the citizens, and the really important issues lack time and attention. i think it's time to stop making fancy speeches, and stop making fancy ideology, and stop making fancy problems and substitute subjects, and get to work.
in writing. the lack of continuity of vaccine supply during the covid-19 pandemic, which has lasted for several months, the increase in cases, the subsequent lockdowns across europe, the obstacles for entrepreneurs, bankruptcies, job losses, the tragedies of european families are the greatest neglect of the health and lives of millions of citizens of the european union! is this neglect, recklessness or ignorance on the part of the ec? why, in the context of the advance purchase contracts for the development and delivery of vaccines, which were also produced with eu support, were safeguards to ensure timeliness of procurement and continuity of the delivery process forgotten? why was the principle of transparency, which is modified in all cases, forgotten when checking the beneficiary of eu funds? the round words about how we can do more together won't help! just the honest work that was missing in the supply contracting. the european union is devastated health and economically after a year of the covid-19 pandemic. getting immunity to the virus is a priority. only a rapid vaccination of eu citizens is a chance to return to 'normalcy'. i call on the european commission to quickly correct the errors, to review the vaccination plans and to provide fair and transparent criteria for the supply of vaccines to eu member states.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, recent weeks have shown that even the most robust democratic structures are not safe from damage. what happened on the other side of the atlantic must inform our debate in europe, as our democratic societies are not immune to the harmful influence of hate speech, disinformation, fake news and incitement to violence. these events have also shed light on the increased importance of online platforms and social media companies in shaping public debate. they have highlighted the growing interconnection that exists between digital transformation and democracy, which is one of the priorities of the portuguese presidency. it is unquestionable that social media companies have the status of public squares, which means they should have responsibilities when it comes to enhancing citizens’ participation and ensuring freedom of expression. nevertheless, freedom of expression is not absolute. it should be balanced with the goal of combating illegal hate speech, incitement to violence and radicalisation, both online and offline. what is illegal? what is illegal offline must be illegal online. online platforms have repeatedly been criticised for the lack of transparency in the use of algorithms, on content moderation and for targeting users on the basis of a vast amount of personal data generated from online activity. the digital space has also become a breeding ground for conspiracies and fake news. disinformation spreads faster than any virus. education, media and digital literacy are the best vaccines against that. we expect online platforms to play their part in this common fight, but it is up to the democratic institutions – our laws, our courts – to set the rules of the game, to define what is illegal and what is not, what must be removed and what should not be. without democratic scrutiny and a level playing field, there is a risk to users’ rights, information flows and public participation. the protection of fundamental rights requires transparent and consistent rules for all of us, including social media outlets. the recently proposed european democracy action plan, the digital services act and the digital markets act are important steps forward and will make the digital environment more transparent and actors like social media companies more accountable. the council has already started the discussions on these important instruments. these initiatives must also be considered in conjunction with the upcoming media and audiovisual action plan, which will be the subject of the council conclusions that we intend to adopt during our presidency. in addition, we are expecting, for the third quarter of the year, a commission legislative proposal to ensure greater transparency in the area of sponsored content in a public context, complementing the digital services act. the council is ready to cooperate with this parliament to ensure adoption sufficiently ahead of the 2024 european elections. moreover, the presidency will host the digital assembly in lisbon in june, where the concepts of digital democracy and digital rights will be discussed. the presidency intends to consolidate the idea that europe is a reference in the digital era and that our values and way of doing business are a competitive advantage. we want to place this idea at the heart of the european digital strategy for the next digital decade. the presidency will also hold a high—level conference on the future of journalism and its interconnection with artificial intelligence, with a special focus on the robotisation of news production. the current times have brought into sharp relief the unavoidable reality that what is happening online shapes our lives, beliefs and choices. it deeply influences what we buy or who we vote for, who we listen to, and even our opinion on vaccines. in its recent conclusions, the council stressed the need to foster a well—functioning digital public sphere, greater accountability and improved transparency in addressing disinformation. countering this scourge is crucial to preserve open political debate and the effective participation of citizens. we need to prevent social media functioning as an echo chamber which suppresses different points of view, and we need to make sure our citizens are equipped to manage the flood of information they are exposed to every day. in times such as this, believing in unreliable information may be lethal. we welcome, therefore, the work on the rapid alert system and other monitoring instruments. we encourage support for media and digital literacy, media pluralism, media independence and fact checking. let me reassure you that the presidency is committed to working with the european parliament, the commission and the european external action service on these crucial issues in order to promote and protect our fundamental rights and our democracy.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for organising this debate. i know we don’t have much time, so i will try to be brief rather than exhaustive in my introductory remarks. social media has transformed the way we communicate with each other, debate on political issues or do campaigning. there are a lot of new opportunities, but also a lot of problems. with the recent attack on the capitol, we’ve got a tangible yet tragic proof that many people have simply lost trust in democratic institutions. going online only exacerbated many of the existing problems and cleavages in our societies. the us events are the moment of reckoning, also because they reminded us of the power twitter, facebook and other technological corporations possess. the fact that they can permanently remove an account of a sitting president based on vague criteria and unclear oversight is really worrying. even though, i believe president trump’s irresponsible incitement to violence deserved action, it is high time to reign in the unchecked power of the digital corporations. whatever we do, we must uphold the principle of freedom of speech. i do not want to create the ministry of or arbiter of truth. this is the main principle. so what can we do? first, we need tougher regulation, more enforceable obligations and to increase the responsibility of digital players. we have recently proposed the digital services act, that will increase accountability of online platforms and clarify the rules for taking down illegal content, including hate speech and incitement to violence. this is a ground-breaking proposal, and will also give us the tools for stronger monitoring and enforcement of the obligations of online platforms. we need these rules urgently and we are ready to work together with you and the member states to quickly adopt this law. what can we do already now, while waiting for the digital services act to become law? we can equip ourselves already now with better tools to fight disinformation and harmful content. the european democracy action plan is our map of what we should do next in this respect. we can already now strike a new pact against disinformation with better accountability of algorithms and no arbitrary decisions by big online platforms. we can and should have more transparency of their policies and access to relevant data. in the digital services act we moved away from assessing harmful content and focused on the manipulative techniques of online distribution. we need to go more in detail on this – paid promotion and paid likes, reactions from fake accounts, bots can be particularly dangerous for democracy, notably during elections. this is why i will propose new regulation on online political advertising. and freedom of speech is not the same as freedom of reach. regulation alone will not, and in my view should not, address all the details of digital life. when i talked to mark zuckerberg and other ceos of the big tech, we discussed solutions that go beyond regulation because we must not sacrifice freedom of expression, which requires open space, be it online or offline. they cannot judge and evaluate every piece of content posted on them. this is why we need to reshape the thinking of tech companies and tech workers. architects follow not only law but also ethical codes to ensure that the buildings they design are safe for people. coders and it experts should have a similar approach when designing their algorithms, something i rarely hear from the tech executives. and third, we cannot focus on social media platforms alone. we need to make our education fit for digital reality. we all have to become more digitally literate, understand the basics of what is happening online and why we are seeing certain content. this will allow us to navigate safely online. as a person coming, as many of you do, from an ex—totalitarian country, in my case communist czechoslovakia, i have tasted life without democracy and freedom of speech. i believe we need to bring order to the digital expression of democracy and to end the digital wild west. what is illegal offline must be illegal online, but we also have to work on restoring trust among citizens. facts belong to everyone. opinions belong to an individual. and this distinction has been damaged and can only be repaired if there is trust in science, in authorities and society. we all have a very important role to play in this as well.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! for several hours now, a war for media freedom has been raging in poland. the war is about whether the polish people can know the truth or whether the government can decide what the truth is. by lying about higher taxes, the government is really about greater obedience. because the government wants to cultivate the obedience of the citizens through the media that it controls. it's like hungary. it's like russia. what should we do when the authorities of a european union member state deny its citizens the right to reliable information? parliament is again to say: we do not have the consent of brussels? is he just gonna talk again? kicking my foot and screaming? there's a point where helplessness becomes humiliation. humiliating those who stand alone in defense of freedom and democracy. as the roman maxim says, "vim vi repellere licet" "by force, one may repel force". with the force appropriate to the threat. i therefore call on the whole of the european union to take appropriate action. that's why i call on all free media in the world to stand in solidarity with the polish free media. because if it happened to us, it could happen to you. i'm finished here. what's left of my time, i'm spending it in silence. to silence, which may be a warning. because if we don't act now, soon this moment of silence could become a minute of silence, silence over the coffin of polish democracy. and if it's polish, it's also european.
madam president! is the world being taken over by the big tech corporations that already today control public debate, influence election results, count no one, go unpunished? the early internet was a freedom, it was like hyde park online. the goal of the silicon valley giants in their early days was to give people free access to information, and their motto was "do no harm". but that was yesterday, and today we have 1984 again. orwell and other science fiction writers predicted the future. but this time it's for real. you disagree with big brother, he'll shut you up, even if you're the president of the united states. the victim is always the conservative viewpoint on the internet. a few big tech billionaires have declared war on free speech in the name of leftist ideology, and their actions are comparable to the actions of totalitarian states. we are witnessing an unprecedented threat to freedom. on one side, censorship and account blocking, on the other, digital surveillance and manipulation. the european commission's indifference to these monopolistic practices is astonishing. it's time to take action and enact regulations to protect free speech online.
madam president, it has become fashionable to say that social media must be controlled. however, one wonders who will surveil the surveiller. censorship in social media is a slippery slope and, except in very exceptional cases, it is not justified. but let me be clear: opinion must be free, but fascism is not an opinion. it is a crime. but who can assure us that the rules created today will not be used against minorities tomorrow? social media has been an area for debate and free speech that a lot of the time has called into question the official narratives that big economic and political powers have tried to impose on us. that is real progress for all of our citizens, who can express themselves without constraints. with social media the flow of ideas runs freer than ever. free speech is a human right and we must defend it as such.
madam president, social media or social networks have become a platform where not only private but also public discourse takes place. the recent decision by a private online platform to remove the profile of a democratically elected president sets a dangerous precedent. no one, not even the private owners of online platforms, should take away anyone's right to express themselves. this can only happen in exceptional circumstances on the basis of a democratically adopted law. twitter may be formally private property, but functionally it is a deeply social entity. freedom of expression therefore has an essential and inalienable value in a democratic society based on the rule of law. freedom of political speech is the litmus test for the state of democracy in a society. about 2,400 years ago, diogenes was asked what was the most beautiful thing in life. he said freedom of speech. his word has caused the death and suffering of countless free-thinking people. let the new ict technologies not diminish our freedom, but on the contrary, expand it. if we are going to regulate this issue in the eu, we must first of all allow equal access to universal means of communication, services, and above all clear accountability of the private digital giants that operate social networks.
madam president! we're debating today the democratic control of social media. what if democracy is no more? if the government's authoritarian propaganda is taking over new channels of communication and using the tactics of the chamber to cut off new areas of freedom? in poland, the independent media have been protesting since this morning. the pis government, under the guise of a pandemic, wants to tax them even more, while at the same time pouring two billion zlotys into the state media every year. the authoritarian system is being tamed. polish tango with civil society and international institutions continues. poland is becoming undemocratic in the eyes of europe. just like hungary. first they came for the judges, then they came for the women, and now they've come for the independent journalists. so i say this from this place, from the heart of european democracy, and i say this with all my heart: we cannot allow autocrats to destroy the beautiful history of european integration. we just need to act now, and as soon as possible. the vote of the autocratic governments of poland and hungary in the european council must be suspended, their vote must be taken away. there's no more waiting.
madam president! facebook has blocked the english-language account of the polish institute of national remembrance because it posted historical material on the germanisation of polish children during world war ii. another example from the last few days: facebook blocked a fasting ad from the lublin children's hospice just because it dared to promote palliative care for terminally ill children. these are examples of unjustified and illegal blocking of profiles and content posted on social media in poland. is this how the foreign corporate giants operating in the european digital market should understand freedom of speech and freedom of expression? these actions are contrary to the very foundations of democracy, which in this house is always being raised to the level of a flag. were the examples i gave in any way illegal or tainted by wrongdoing? no, not at all. we do not condone this kind of behavior. we will stand firm in defending the fundamental right of free speech. the european institutions must be strong against the strong and effectively protect their citizens where they cannot defend themselves.
mr president, it is 25 years since the beijing world conference - the world's great gathering on women's rights and the most visionary programme for women's empowerment worldwide. it proposed bold and strategic measures and remains the inspiration and framework for our roadmap. but the road for these 25 years has had its lights and shadows and has been desperately slow. no country, as has been said here, has really achieved full gender equality. there is still a long way to go in coeducation, in equal education, in the labour market, in the wage gap, the digital gap, the pension gap, in participation in decision-making, so that poverty no longer has a female face, in conciliation, in violence, still with roaring figures. we also add that the pandemic has increased and deepened inequalities. that is why this debate is timely, because we have to recapture the spirit and commitment of beijing. we have, after the pandemic, the obligation to rebuild the world and therefore we have to be reborn, putting diversity, respect, values and women and girls at the center of our recovery plans. it's a global imperative for all of us who believe in equity and justice; it demands action and will and to stop ideologizing these issues against each other. we must all stand together; equality is not up for debate. without it there is no progress, no europe, and no freedom. that's why it has to be a fact as well as a right.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. how reasonable, how worthy of achievement are the goals of the beijing declaration and platform? how obvious should they have been? we know the reality: not a single country in the european union has achieved the 25 year old goals of the platform for action. that means there's a lot, a lot to do. the central issue for me is women's economic independence. financial independence is a way to make a better life for yourself. that is why the pay gap, the gender pay gap, the gender pension gap must be closed, just as we need funds from the european union's reconstruction fund specifically for women. because not only do women create crises, they are also at the forefront of future policy. greta thunberg and wangari maathai are just two of the many amazing young environmental activists fighting for our future. let us finally make the 21st century the century of women.
mr president, commissioner, 25 years have passed since the beijing declaration, the powerful declaration on women's rights, and everyone now admits that its 12 strategic objectives have not been achieved and have not been fully achieved. we are already 64 years into the historic founding treaty of rome, where the founders and fathers of the european union envisioned and incorporated in the treaty of rome the equality of races, to be realized and realised over time, something that has not been achieved to date. i believe, madam commissioner, that the time has come for the european union to assume its responsibility towards its history, towards its culture, towards its principles and values, towards the treaties themselves. let's not fool ourselves. it is not enough to say things and make declarations. the european union must take the lead and play a leading role and implement the treaties and implement gender equality. and the implementation of gender equality cannot be done without sanctions on those who do not respect and implement it. these sanctions must be imposed and i propose, commissioner, that every three months the european parliament be informed of the progress of the implementation of gender equality by the member states of the european union. the european parliament, the cradle of democracy, equality, equity and equality, is the starting point. from this place, where 500 million european citizens, men and women, are represented and expressed, i declare with all the strength of my soul that we will not stop and will not stop for a moment to fight, until the end, so that full equality between the sexes is achieved. we will not stop fighting until the gender shame gap is effectively closed and we will not stop fighting until we do not have to be here to talk about gender equality, but we will be here to celebrate gender equality in the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that europe has to catch up with the gender gap that has been lagging for years and that this is a burden on the shoulders of a balanced and rapid development of our continent is expressed in every official document. but the risk is that the gender issue is well-exposed in the documents and then it does not find concrete application in the choices and directions of spending. that is what has happened, unfortunately, in recent years. but now that is no longer possible because the pandemic has further compromised the quality of life of women. and that is why with half of it, with the right tools, we have called for targeted and concrete measures on employment and access to credit. we have called for national plans whose impacts on the gender gap are rigorously assessed. we are also convinced, mr president, that closing the gender gap means closing other social and civil gaps, starting with the equal opportunities offered to citizens. it means, in essence, making our countries fairer, better places, and that is why we will not back down.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i speak on behalf of polish women who are fighting for their rights, because in poland instead of abortion rights we have a hell of a woman. polish women are not protected from violence, earn less than men in the same positions, have lower pensions, have no right to infertility treatment, and some do not even have access to a gynecologist. even more difficult are the situation of women with disabilities, the elderly, non-heterosexual women, migrants, women living in rural areas. and this is happening in the european union 25 years after the adoption of the beijing declaration and the beijing platform for action. commissioner dalli will probably say that this is not a matter for the european union. that's a convenient explanation, but how does it help women in poland? and if you think that this is not the eu's competence, is the commission working on a package of changes to the treaties? all areas of women's human rights, including the right to abortion, must be the responsibility of the union.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the nuclear power plant in ostrovetsk, belarus, poses a serious threat to the european union for at least two reasons. first, there were two emergency shutdowns in a short period of time. in the wake of the chernobyl disaster, we cannot simply ignore such information and believe official assurances that it was a technical malfunction. and the second, more serious issue is the political context of this investment. the ostrowiec power plant is a belarusian-russian project, which means that the key decisions fall to the kremlin. this is another lever for russia's political interests, not only in belarus, but also in the baltic countries and others. moscow has been practicing this scenario since the construction of the nord stream 2 pipeline. i'm not going to let you down. if we are to protest the ostrovets nuclear power plant, we need to see the bigger picture and also speak out against nord stream 2. it's a trojan horse that we can't accept. and we all know that there is only one country in our region that is capable of blocking nord stream 2 and putting a dam on russian attempts to discredit and break up the european union. and it's time to do that.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. of course, energy independence is important. but it must not be overridden by the security concerns of european citizens. the nuclear power stations have raised and will raise many fears, doubts, especially in this aspect of safety, and let us not forget that where there is a regime, there is no respect for european standards and no concern for the lives and safety of the inhabitants of that country or its neighbours. i remember because i live in a province that borders ukraine, i remember the chernobyl nuclear disaster, and i remember all the lies that we were fed. i remember the effects that are still felt today by the people of this part of poland, where the radioactive cloud has passed, not to mention the people of ukraine, the deaths of hundreds of people, the cancer, the contamination of many hundreds of hectares and the loss of the ability to live in vast areas. so it is crucial to maintain full compliance with the highest standards, with safety, environmental, legal or health standards, but i will stress again: where there is a regime, where there is an attempt to break democracy, let's forget about european or global norms and standards. we are also aware that there have been several incidents at this power plant, which has not yet been fully operational, that raise reasonable doubts. i am absolutely in solidarity with my colleagues, the people of lithuania and the baltic states, and i hope that the commission will be able to answer all the questions and questions and that it will use all the diplomatic means at its disposal to resolve this problem.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. most of us here are the generation of soviet coca-cola, or lugol's liquid, which we were forced to drink after the chernobyl nuclear power plant explosion in 1986. and let's not be naive: a nuclear power plant in the hands of europe's last dictator, an irresponsible man who raised his hand against his own people, is a danger not only for belarus, it is a danger for the baltic countries and for all of europe. and this is not just a security problem -- financial and environmental -- but also a geopolitical problem. that is why i say to the european commission: do not be naive! it's a hybrid annexation of not just belarus, but the entire region. that is why it is important that we stand together and take a clear stand on this issue. this is a war of putin and lukashenko against our european security.
madam president! many experts stress and point out that russia expects that the expected deficit of electricity generation capacity in the central european countries, in particular in poland, in the next few years, which will occur through the increase in energy consumption, as well as the reduction of production capacity resulting from restrictive climate policy, will prompt european decision-makers to change the strategy of blocking the power coming from the controversial belarusian installation, which will create an opportunity to export surplus electricity to the countries of central and eastern europe and thus to gain further political leverage on central europe. it seems to be a very important moment for us, in the context of the covid crisis and in the context of the plans for investment in energy in europe and the energy solidarity we want to build, to also pay attention to this issue, which can have very negative consequences for central europe.
madam president, i would like to thank you. anyone who knows their history and knows what happened in chernobyl should react with dismay to what is now taking place in belarus. we know what can happen when an anti-democratic and corrupt regime tries to rush through a nuclear power plant. it could lead to a full-scale disaster. the fact that astravjets do not meet safety recommendations is a fact that cannot be ignored. the eu commission must act to ensure that the belarusian authorities postpone the launch of astravets until all the measures have been implemented. there are too many politicians in this house who are constantly raising the issue of nuclear power as part of the climate change, but you too must react to what is happening now, just a few kilometres from the border of europe. during the construction phase of the astravets, there were eight known security incidents. in 2020, there were four voltage transformer failures and malfunctions in the cooling system. this is completely unacceptable. it is not just a climate issue, but also a security issue. we must get rid of this dependence on russian influence in nuclear power stations both within and outside europe's borders.
madam president! i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! the investment we are talking about today (as all my predecessors have stressed) concerns the security of the people of europe in the broad sense, particularly those countries which border on belarus. we're worried, we're afraid, because this investment carries a lot of different kinds of risks. and the european commission must do its utmost to monitor the progress of this investment, including how it is functioning. but i want to highlight first of all at this point one more dimension - very important - about who is making this investment. it was also mentioned here. this is an investment that is being carried out jointly by putin and lukashenko. what does that mean, "i'm not"? it means trouble for all of us, and we need to be aware of it. and we cannot sweep this matter under the carpet, as is unfortunately done in the european union with nord stream 2 and even with reckless statements such as the one made by the german president in recent days, which shows a complete lack of understanding of the situation and the context in which the european union is situated.
madam president! the nuclear power plant in ostrovetsk, belarus, started generating electricity in early november last year. it was actually launched despite the lack of a licence and despite many safety concerns. it was also unclear to what extent the belarusian authorities had implemented the recommendations of the international atomic energy agency. belarusian citizens are protesting against the nuclear power plant in ostrowotsk. members of ngos who are interested in the installation are harassed and intimidated. the power plant is located in close proximity to the neighbouring member states of belarus: lithuania, latvia and poland. it is only 30 miles [50 km] from vilnius. nuclear power is always a big risk, and where there is no proper care for safety measures, it is a disastrous idea. the union institutions cannot leave this matter to themselves. we must put pressure on the belarusian authorities on this issue, and electricity produced in ostrovet should have no place in the eu energy market.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! we all agree in the european union that nuclear safety is a fundamental issue. this is why it is so important to maintain the highest standards and to build and maintain an exceptional safety and security culture in this sector. this is the purpose of standards adopted by the european union and the international atomic energy agency. i would therefore like to ask whether, in addition to cooperating with the national nuclear safety regulators, the international atomic energy agency, the authorities and authorities of belarus, the commission is gathering and analysing information from other sources on the technical status of key elements of the ostrovets power plant? i would remind you that the polish institution responsible for nuclear safety and radiation protection, the state atomic energy agency, maintains a regular dialogue with its counterpart in belarus. we also support the initiative of estonia, greece, italy, latvia, lithuania and poland on international standards and recommendations for nuclear safety at the ostrowiec power plant.
i have received one draft resolution tabled pursuant to rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 11 february 2021. the following table is added: see minutes of the meeting written declarations (rule 171)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on rwanda, the case of paul rusesabagina (2021/2543 ((rsp))*.____________.* look at the minutes of the meeting.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! paul rusesabagina is credited with saving over 1,200 of his compatriots hiding in the hotel where he was the manager from machete-wielding gangs during the 1994 genocide that claimed at least 800,000 lives in rwanda. paul rusesabagina gained international fame when his heroic deeds were portrayed in the hollywood film "hotel rwanda". in 2005, he was awarded the us presidential medal of freedom, the highest civilian award in the us, for his work. in september 2020, paul rusesabagina was captured by rwandan special forces on board a plane from the united arab emirates to burundi and transported by government aircraft to kigali, where he was formally arrested. his trial was scheduled to begin on 26 january this year, but was postponed due to problems with his access to international lawyers and difficulties in contacting lawyers in kigali. the next trial is scheduled to begin on february 17. the european union should monitor this matter closely and, if necessary, respond effectively.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 11 february 2021. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on seven draft resolutions on the situation of human rights in kazakhstan (2021/2544 (rsp)). look at the minutes of the meeting.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. while appreciating the efforts made so far by kazakhstan to improve its human rights record, we must further encourage its authorities to continue their efforts to apply high standards of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. you can see that there are areas where improvement is clearly needed. this includes ensuring that citizens can fully enjoy their fundamental rights, including the right to freedom of assembly and association. we also look forward to deepening our cooperation with kazakhstan in promoting freedom of religion and belief. we also hope to continue our cooperation on human rights and the promotion of democracy within the osce. in this context, further dialogue with kazakhstan is necessary to have a positive impact on the authorities of that country and to demonstrate the importance of the dissemination of standards of that organisation.
madam president! we have been informed about the poor human rights situation in kazakhstan for years. the limitation of fundamental freedoms, such as freedom of speech, expression, or religion. the osce has also for years found serious irregularities in the electoral process. parliamentary elections were characterised by a lack of respect for the freedoms of association, peaceful assembly and expression. in january this year, during the parliamentary elections, there were mass arrests of peaceful protesters and even random passers-by. the protesters were calling for a boycott of the elections because the opposition was not allowed to participate. as a result of the elections, only pro-government parties entered parliament. it is also worth mentioning the harassment of human rights organisations through the imposition of administrative penalties or suspension of their activities by the tax authorities. and while the government has criticized the actions of the authorities and announced a new phase of reforms, in particular in the areas of law enforcement, the judiciary and the priority treatment of human rights, caution and control should be exercised in this process, including changes to the electoral law and the implementation of osce recommendations.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. we take note of the results of the presidential election announced in january by the electoral commission of uganda. however, we cannot accept the numerous acts of violence and harassment by the security forces against opposition leaders, civil society organizations and the media. we expect these actions to stop and those responsible to be held accountable. we should also appeal to the ugandan authorities to respect freedom of speech and the right to peaceful assembly, and to ensure access to the internet and social media. until the judicial processes to deal with electoral complaints are completed, the european union should call for political dialogue and appeal to all parties to refrain from all forms of violence and from any acts that may incite violence.
madam president! and in this crisis, i think we've seen firsthand what belief in the invisible hand of the free market has done. it was china that monopolized the supply of a strategic resource today, the simple mask. it was china that, by minimizing the cost of cheap labor, monopolized the world's manufacturing today. that's why we should learn from this. as the european union, we must ensure that we control certain strategic production resources and that the member states within the union ensure that products of the right quality, such as masks, reach the right environments. it's not like that now. if president ursula von der leyen wants the union to become a global player, we must have this sensitivity to everyone, excluding no one, and today millions of europeans are excluded. i'll just remind you that there were different declarations from different countries. in poland, for example, prime minister morawiecki announced the creation of a polish sewing factory, and for the first six months of 2020, poland imported only masks for 289 million euros. if this continues, we will not build a union in which no one is left behind.
mr president, we are living in a pandemic, a very sad time for humanity, which has not only far-reaching consequences for the economy, but especially for those who know the victims. the elderly and the disabled are particularly affected. this shows once again that the european union must also become a health union. the crisis is being dealt with differently in each member state. this creates a messy picture, as the approaches vary widely and are not always clear. the industry has managed to develop several vaccines in about six months that will hopefully help us fight this pandemic. it is therefore a sad fact that each member state has a different policy on earmuffs and that we are also adding to the 35 million europeans who already suffer from hearing problems a jumble of earmuffs, including surgical earmuffs and transparent earmuffs. the latter are not permitted, however, because they would not be safe. so i propose that we use part of the covid-19 response fund to develop transparent mouthpieces that will help 35 million people with hearing loss, as well as the elderly and people in care. because we are social creatures, and we like to see a face and a mouth move when we talk to someone, as we are used to. i would therefore ask all the heads of government to finally give the european union the power to adopt health measures at eu level and, if necessary, to extend them to the whole union, in order to make the measures in force clear to the european citizens. i hope that we can achieve this soon, and perhaps even during the portuguese presidency, and i would like to call again for the development of transparent mouthguards for the elderly and for people with hearing problems.
madam president! fellow workers! wearing a mask has been a reality for most of us since the beginning of the pandemic. at first, we were rude, we were grinning, it was uncomfortable. now most of them are used to it, and the mask has become a matter of course. but for the deaf and hard of hearing, who the world health organization estimates make up over five percent of the population, the mask is an additional challenge. the inability to observe the face of the person making the call makes it very difficult or even impossible for them to communicate effectively. it's also a huge barrier to communicating with children with autism, for example, as teachers at the royal woluwe institute, a special school here in brussels, have long pointed out. the solution here is the transparent masks we're talking about today. it's still too scarce, it's still not standardized enough. there is no doubt that public authorities, including the eu institutions, should take all available measures to change this situation. transparent masks must be made available to all who need them. and it's not just physical availability that's important, but also price. the additional element i would like to draw attention to is the ecological aspect. very often, transparent masks can be made from reusable material that is recyclable and easily shed. this is certainly a strong argument for action to make them widely available.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, following the insurgency in the tigray region, the number of people who need humanitarian aid to survive has risen from 1.8 million to 2.5 million. if we add to this the growing impact of famine, also due to the invasion of locusts, it becomes dramatically clear that the international community needs to step up its efforts to deal with this emergency. i welcome the important signals of openness in addis ababa from recent meetings between senior un officials and national authorities, which have resulted in the deployment of 24 humanitarian workers in the field. we must strongly encourage these joint efforts. they are essential if we are to achieve effective emergency management before it is too late. it's a complex context. ethiopia has embarked on a path of reform in recent years, and it has also been the architect of an unthinkable peace agreement. we need all our pressure, before the situation escalates, to make it clear that this effort at this work cannot be undone now.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. - i'm not sure. i am not going to go into detail. we've had three months of war in ethiopia, civil war in tigray. contrary to the central government's assertion in addis ababa at the end of november this year, the war is not over. he is neither won nor satisfied. it is a single humanitarian catastrophe that the world public must take note of with astonishment. the health care system is finished. more and more people in tigray are in need of humanitarian assistance. the international red cross says it's 80 percent of the population. a civil war which has exacerbated the humanitarian crisis, which is being used as a weapon of war. a government under abiy, which was rightly awarded the nobel peace prize for its foreign policy reconciliation with eritrea, but now tramples reconciliation in its own country. we as the eu have a clear position: budget support will remain frozen until humanitarian aid arrives in the country, until international media are allowed in. we demand that aid organizations be granted unrestricted access to tigray, that the fate of the 20,000 eritrean refugees be clarified, that the troops be withdrawn from eritrea. and also that the leaders of aid organizations in tigray, such as the director of rest, who have been arrested for four weeks, be released. this would be a sign of reconciliation. to seek reconciliation is not weakness.
mr. president, ethiopia is a special country to us. it's the first christian country in africa. this is the country that richard kapuscinski wrote about, translated into many languages. it is, after all, a country that was for a time an italian colony, a country with a long and proud history. i think it's not surprising that we're interested in what's happening in ethiopia, what's happening in the north of the country, a country or whatever, that's different territorially than it used to be, because the state of eritrea was created. this state is intervening right now in this conflict, intervening and suppressing the rebellion in the north of the country, and even, we hear, the troops of this country are staying there. i think our voice in defense of these refugees, in defense of those who are being killed, exterminated, is very important.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen! the situation in ethiopia is very serious. the consequences of military action are frightening. ethiopia is in dire need of humanitarian aid. i think it is good that in the current circumstances, in the current situation in ethiopia, the eu budget support has been suspended. we had no choice. but the suspension of that support cannot limit humanitarian programs. and that's why we have to do everything we can to get humanitarian aid into ethiopia, because we're dealing with a famine disaster. i would also like to draw attention to the very important issue of the exploitation of women, the situation of women in armed conflict. this situation of women in ethiopia is particularly frightening. let us also look at the situation of children who are deprived of education, food, health care. ethiopia is in dire need of our humanitarian support.
mr president, we cannot continue to ignore the humanitarian crisis and the blatant violation of fundamental rights currently happening in ethiopia, our partner in the african union. i note with great concern reports of the limitation on humanitarian access to tigray that will lead to hundreds of thousands of people starving to death, eritrean soldiers forcibly returning refugees from tigray, and killings on political, ethnical and religious grounds in ethiopia. so today, we call on all parties involved in the conflict to respect human rights and refrain from further violence. effective protection of refugees, including preventing any act of coerced return targeting eritrean refugees, needs to be ensured. this ongoing conflict will worsen ethnic tensions throughout the country and poses a security threat to the entire horn of africa region. the eu and the other relevant external action bodies must urgently address human rights concerns and imminent starvation threats, both bilaterally with ethiopia and through multilateral platforms.
mr. chairman, please! as one of the initiators of this debate, i was particularly concerned by the news of the murder of christians in the tigray region. about 750 people were to be imprisoned in the church and murdered. so, here's a question for you, commissioner: what do we know about this situation, and what are you going to do about it? and especially in the context of christianophobia in general, i wanted to take this moment to ask about christianophobia, because according to the persecution index, christians are the most persecuted religious group in the world. in 2020, the number of persecuted christians rose to over 300 million. attacks on churches and religious buildings have halved to almost 10,000. over 4,500 christians were killed, and the number has increased again. what are you going to do about the spread of christianophobia and what measures will you take? that's a question for the commission.
mr. chairman, please! the ethiopian civil war, which has been raging for several months, has given rise to alarming reports of serious human rights violations. the limited access of humanitarian organisations raises growing concerns about the situation of the civilian population. the british weekly church times reported on a massacre of christians in which at least 750 people were killed. the attack was allegedly carried out by ethiopian government troops and amharic militia in aksum, tigray province, in front of an ethiopian orthodox church. if this information is confirmed, we would be dealing with a war crime or genocide, and we have not seen such incidents in ethiopia. moreover, it goes against ethiopia's centuries-old tradition of tolerance for different religious and ethnic groups. i would therefore ask whether the european commission has checked this information. has any action been taken to clarify the circumstances of this tragedy? has the commission requested that independent observers and journalists be allowed into the region? finally, what steps has the commission taken to de-escalate the conflict and resolve it through diplomatic means?
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for this discussion and debate. from my perspective, the message from this house is loud and clear: the world cannot turn a blind eye to the traumatic events in ethiopia. i also want to remind you that the eu has not been silent and we have taken many actions. firstly, as i already told you in my introduction, we decided to postpone the disbursement of three budget support payments. the total amount of that is eur 88.5 million. secondly, as i described, we have supported the refugees, internally displaced persons (idps) and host communities through the implementation of our programmes. in addition to that, we have also created the productive safety net programme (psnp), which amounts to eur 50 million, in order to support the poorest food insecure households, and, as i told you, we also decided to give additional support to sudan and the sudanese government because at the moment they are hosting a huge number of ethiopian refugees. fourthly, of course, we believe, in political dialogue. we are politicians. we understand that, even though we have different opinions and disagreements, we need to have a dialogue. that’s why we mandated the foreign minister of finland, pekka haavisto, to make a mission to ethiopia and have a dialogue with prime minister abiy ahmed, but also with the government. some meps asked for concrete examples of what the eu is doing to help. just to give you a couple of those examples, the eu-funded humanitarian action in ethiopia focuses on addressing the most urgent humanitarian needs. last year, in 2020, the eu provided over eur 63 million to humanitarian projects in ethiopia, including eur 18.18 million for the tigray crisis and its spillover effects in other regions of ethiopia, as well as eur 6 million in additional funding for the ethiopian refugees in sudan. with the additional funding allocated for the tigray crisis, the commission’s humanitarian partners - the united nations, ngos and the red cross for instance - are notably enhancing their emergency response capacity with the focus on health, shelter and non-food items, the nutrition and protection sectors, and particular attention is given to idps and eritrean refugees. in parallel, the eu is monitoring - and this is the important part - very closely the situation, notably through the humanitarian aid partners and through a dedicated field mission, and another mission will be conducted with denmark, sweden and the czech republic at the technical level this week. so, since the start of the conflict, the eu has been at the forefront of humanitarian advocacy and has been praised for its principled stance on the tigray crisis. well, what shall we do now? the eu will definitely continue to act on its concerns by calling for an end to the conflict. that’s the most important thing: to end the conflict. we are also pushing for access for humanitarian actors to be guaranteed. we are protecting refugees and internally displaced persons and supporting the work of the ethiopian human rights commission in its investigations into allegations of violence and abuses of human rights and violations of international law. my last point is - and i think this was also mentioned by some of the meps - that of course, if we want to leverage, we need to be able to work as a team. we need to be able to act as a team. this of course means that we need to be able to work together - the commission, the parliament, but also the council and the member states. and that’s not enough. we also need to engage with the international community, for instance with switzerland, the united kingdom and the new us administration, and with other international organisations, and convey a message of unity and the importance of engaging urgently in an inclusive dialogue with the ethiopian government.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. after three months of denial of access to humanitarian aid to assist victims of the conflict in the tigray region of ethiopia, we support the european union's suspension of the cooperation package for the ethiopian government. however, we must continue to look for ways to get help to those who need it most. in this region of 7 million people, there were already 3 million who depended on international aid before the conflict. the number of displaced persons and refugees is difficult to estimate, as the ethiopian government prevents access to journalists, un agencies and ngos. the situation is extremely serious, with all kinds of abuse, including sexual abuse of children. we must prepare for unprecedented famine and the possible destabilization of the entire horn of africa. we call for the priority for european diplomacy and the african union to be to ensure humanitarian access, with impartiality, humanity, neutrality and independence. when the european parliament calls for more budget for humanitarian aid, it is precisely to protect the victims of these conflicts, of hunger and of climate change.
in writing. war is a tragedy that leaves its mark on the weakest. when it strikes an african country that is struggling with poverty and social stratification, the humanitarian consequences are catastrophic. before the conflict, 45 percent of children in ethiopia died of hunger before they were five years old. one in three women have been victims of physical, psychological and sexual violence, and 65% have experienced female genital mutilation. we are hearing about unimaginable sexual violence in ethiopia. people are forced to rape their own family members, women are used by the military to provide sexual services in exchange for food. the lack of medical care and medication makes the situation tragic. sadly, the situation is no better in the refugee camps, where the majority of the refugees are women and children. there are also hundreds of sexual assault cases reported there. therefore, immediate medical assistance should be accompanied by protective measures for those who have been forced to leave their homes to avoid further sexual violence. i ask for diplomatic pressure on all parties to the conflict to commit to a zero tolerance policy on sexual violence, in accordance with their respective obligations under international humanitarian law and the human rights convention. i hope that the ec's actions will help bring the conflict to a speedy end and stem the tide of humanitarian disaster and violence.
in writing. ethiopia is a strategic partner for the eu in the horn of africa, as it has an impact on the stability of the entire region. the internal dispute has already caused tensions with sudan over thousands of refugees fleeing. but my biggest concern is the humanitarian situation in the tigray region. even before the fighting began, 15.2 million people in ethiopia were in need of humanitarian assistance, including 2 million in the tigray region, which also sheltered 100,000 internally displaced people and 96,000 eritrean refugees. today, the situation has deteriorated dramatically, with 4 million people without access to basic services, food, electricity, and humanitarian workers with limited capacity to act. this is a critical situation! since the beginning of the crisis, the eu has been calling for the opening of humanitarian corridors and the continued, unconditional presence of humanitarian ngo staff on the ground. in four months, not much has changed on that front. human rights and humanitarian law are being violated in ethiopia, with civilians, including humanitarian workers, being killed and sexual violence occurring on a daily basis. it is our duty to maintain the unity of the country. that is why we must press the ethiopian government to agree to a ceasefire and a peaceful resolution of the conflict. this is important because of the worsening humanitarian situation, but also because of the specter of an escalation of conflict in the region. ethiopia must emerge from the crisis united.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
the european parliament shall be informed of the outcome of the vote.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank prime minister ardern, vice-president harris, for accepting our invitation to address our assembly today to celebrate international women's day and to reflect with us on the challenges ahead. i thank mrs von der leyen for being in the chamber with us and vice-president jourová. our countries and societies are united by deep historical, cultural, political and economic ties, and even at this dramatic moment for the whole world, we share a commitment to economic and social recovery where no one is left behind. today's celebration cannot be a rhetorical one. we are in the midst of a dramatic crisis that began exactly one year ago and has seen women and girls not only on the front lines of health and emergency response, but also suffering the full economic, social, material consequences of the pandemic in their own lives. simone de beauvoir used to say: "never forget that a political, economic or religious crisis will be enough to call women's rights into question. these rights are never acquired. you'll have to stay vigilant all your life". this quote fits very well with the crisis we are going through. ladies and gentlemen, the covid-19 pandemic has not only consolidated injustice and inequality, but it risks erasing decades of achievements of european women's struggles for the right to work, to share care work, to autonomy in relationships, to respect and the right to their choices in affective relationships. in all our countries women were the first to lose their jobs or to go into the redundancy fund. the sectors most affected by the economic impact of the pandemic are those with a high female presence: tourism, culture, leisure and catering. the majority of the workforce providing essential care services is female. women represent 76% of healthcare workers in the european union and 86% of care providers. due to the pandemic, many women have been forced to work part-time or stay at home to care for their children, the elderly and the disabled. the identity of poverty in europe today is woman and mother. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european union with the republic of south africa. this pandemic has brought to light a perverse feature of our economic and social model, which is the view of poverty as a guilt. the pandemic has also highlighted how caring for others is essential for society and how this is a public good to be defended. and how that care work, which is now largely entrusted to women, is in fact a responsibility of all and should be considered a public good. ladies and gentlemen, we can only fight this pandemic and the social and economic impact it has and will have on our lives, on people's lives, if we put women and girls at the center of our response. we must not do this as a tribute to a general principle, we must do it by embracing the powers we have, that parliament has, that the institutions have, to change the material conditions of women's lives for the better and to make a leap forward and not back for women in the transition we are building. the continent that led the fight for women's rights is now called upon to promote real equality for women as a fight for all. first of all, women must be equally present in the decision-making places on recovery. it is therefore essential to unblock the directive on the representation of women on boards of directors, which has been stalled in the council for too many years, and i count on the commitment of the portuguese presidency to this essential objective. but that's not enough. we must start with equal pay. equal pay for equal work. women in europe earn on average 14.1% less than men. this is no longer acceptable. we are therefore ready to work on the commission's proposal for binding pay transparency which was presented yesterday and which we will put at the heart of our work. parliament has fought, as you know, to ensure that gender equality and the gender dimension are central priorities in the european union's weekly budget and in the evaluation of national recovery plans. this is not abstract. if recovery is prioritized on equality, this will change the lives of people and women very concretely in all our countries, in cities, in the places of work found and conquered, in schools and universities, in research centers. and again, very concretely, precisely because this is not the time for rhetoric, we have a duty to state that violence against women is a serious crime and that it must be punished everywhere throughout the european union. we must therefore work towards the ratification of the istanbul convention by all the member states of the union and towards making violence against women a crime with a european dimension. it is not an abstract question, i said, it is about who we are, it is part of our identity card as a major global actor and democratic bloc. ladies and gentlemen, this dramatic crisis presents us with a great opportunity to make the european union a different and more equal place. we have many tools and many resources to do this, we have launched them with great united commitment, throughout this year that we have lived so dramatically and are now also available to the goal of a fairer economy. women, girls, young girls must be the protagonists of the recovery of our economies and our societies. that has to be a goal, the goal of everyone, of all of us for this 2021.
president of the european commission. – mr president, my fellow european women, let’s have a look at what women have endured in 12 months of pandemic. the female doctors and nurses working double shifts for entire weeks and months. the women entrepreneurs who fought back, reinvented their business and pulled out all the stops to save their employees. the mothers of lockdown children who have had to learn the toughest and most amazing job in the world, with no support from the outside world. look at vice-president kamala harris, look at prime minister jacinda ardern, and what they’ve done for their countries. look at their grace, professionalism, compassion and resolve. look at all these amazing women in our families and communities, and think again: this day is for them. from the women on the front line and the women in the back office, to the businesswomen and the volunteers, to the mothers, to the daughters, to the unsung heroes of this pandemic, this is your day and this is my thank you to all of you. on women’s day, i want all european women to know that europe is at their side. i am on your side. i want europe to finally become a continent of equal opportunities for men and women. and i know we are not there yet. i know the playing field is not level yet. i know from experience that women have to work twice as hard to get the same salary, the same recognition for the same leadership positions as their male colleagues. i know the obstacles and the prejudices and therefore i am proud that last week the commission presented two proposals to address two of the great injustices that women still face: the gender pay gap and the gender employment gap. women in europe are paid on average 14% less than men. this is simply not right. so we are proposing a european directive for pay transparency. it is built on two simple principles. equal work deserves equal pay and for equal pay you need transparency. and women must know whether their employers treat them fairly, and when this is not the case, they must have the power to fight back and get what they deserve. and there’s more to do. too many women in europe lack a very fundamental opportunity, the opportunity to work and to earn a living. today, the employment rate for women is 67%, while that of men is 78%. and this is simply not acceptable. so last week we set a new target for europe. we must cut the gender employment gap in half, and by the end of this decade, 78% of all must have a job. it won’t be easy, but i can promise that we will do all in our power to work towards this goal. we will strengthen childcare, because no woman or man should have to choose between being a mother or father or having a career. we will strengthen elderly care. we will invest in quality education for girls and women. we will push for more women in leadership positions, in public and private bodies across all economic sectors. and we have required that all member states put women at the centre of their recovery plans. it will only be a true recovery if these plans are for all. honourable members, let me quote vice-president harris and adapt her words to europe. we must show every child in europe that there are no limits to who can lead and hold positions of power in our union, regardless of colour or gender. vice-president harris and prime minister jacinda ardern, we are indeed in this together. equality has been enshrined in the european treaty since 1957. it’s been a long road and we will keep walking. we have to remove the obstacles on the path towards equality. we have to strive for equal opportunities. it is not rocket science. the necessary tools are well known and proven. we just have to implement them and do it. long live europe and happy women’s day! (applause)
i would like to thank president von der leyen. removing barriers, everyone said today that it is not a day of rhetoric, but a day of commitment, commitment so that europe can actually give a sign of true equality, and i believe that this is the conclusion of this celebration. thank you all for participating. (applause) i would like to thank it is with deep sadness that we have learned in recent days of the assassination of the italian ambassador to the democratic republic of congo. luca attanasio was killed along with carabiniere vittorio iacovacci and driver moustapha milambo on february 22 near goma, as part of a convoy of the united states world food programme. the european parliament will be debating this at its next sitting on thursday, but i would like to begin our plenary session by sending our deepest condolences to the families, the victims and their loved ones. our thoughts are with them and all the victims of violence and i ask you to join me in a minute of silence. (parliament adopted the resolution)
i thank mr kanko for reminding us of this tragedy.
the minutes and the texts adopted at the sitting of 8, 9, 10 and 11 february were distributed. are there any comments? if there are no comments, the minutes are approved. mr ponsatí obiols has asked to speak on a personal matter. i would remind you, mr president, that parliament's rules of procedure provide that the speaker may not speak on the subject of the debate but must confine himself to rejecting statements made during the debate with reference to himself or to opinions attributed to him, or to correcting his own previous statements. the rules also provide that a member may request to speak in his own name when the minutes of the sitting to which the request for intervention relates are approved. your request must therefore relate to statements made in reference to you or to opinions attributed to you in the february part-session.
mr president, i wasn’t aware that i was going to get this opportunity. there must have been a bit of confusion here, but nevertheless i take the opportunity, thank you.
but if there's been a mishap...
mr president, i presume this refers to someone speaking about me not in the previous plenary but the previous one to that. that is why i am confused.
obviously there's been a mistake. thank you, and we'll move on to the next announcement.
the agenda includes the report by yannick jadot, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, 'towards an eu border carbon adjustment mechanism compatible with the wto' (2020/2043 (ini)) (a9-0019/2021). i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. as in previous sessions, the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states will also be responsible for remote assistance.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner gentiloni, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, a report like this is always a collective effort. it's always a collective success or an individual failure. i want to believe that this will be a collective success. we have worked, i must say, with a great deal of understanding, with a spirit of progress, with a spirit of compromise, and i would like to thank my colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, but also in the committee on international trade, the committee on economic and monetary affairs, the committee on budgets and the committee on industry, research and energy, which, of course, tabled an opinion and sometimes because of their competence. so i thank all my colleagues for this work. because what is at stake is obviously an important issue of credibility and legitimacy of the european union. we know the climate emergency, we're living it. scientists are constantly warning us and we have decided to put the climate agenda at the heart of the european agenda, with the european green deal, of course, and then with the ongoing negotiations on the climate act. but it is also a question of credibility in defending our economy, protecting our companies and our economy, because with this pandemic we have also seen that the question of our sovereignty or our strategic autonomy, the question of sectoral investment choices were key issues to anticipate the great challenges of tomorrow. we have this report on carbon adjustment at the frontiers which, of course, links climate change, the european green deal and innovation, protection and the economic and industrial reconstruction of europe. what is this carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders? first, the aim is to extend the scope of european climate policy to the whole of the economy concerned, since until now climate policy has focused on the production of greenhouse gases on european soil. with border carbon adjustment, our climate policy also covers the issue of imports and so it is essential to shift production-related emissions from european soil to our carbon footprint. this is the first essential point of this instrument. the second point that is also crucial is the idea that decarbonizing is important, but we're not going to decarbonize by offshoring part of our industry. we are not going to decarbonize by deindustrialising europe. we all know how sensitive this is. today, no report has shown that in the years that have passed, there have been carbon leaks, these offshoring related to european climate policy, but with the new target - i hope 60 per cent by 2030 - that's what the european parliament has voted for and i have no doubt that's what the european commission is advocating - we will undoubtedly tighten the constraints on the economy, we will undoubtedly change the rules on the ets market and therefore ask our companies to do more. and it would be unacceptable if these efforts lead to unfair competition on international markets and also on the european market. so the objective of border carbon adjustment is to counter, to fight this unfair competition by requiring companies that would export to the european market to meet exactly the same constraints that we impose on our companies in the european market, on european soil. we have this goal, we have this tool. we agreed, and i think all the political groups supported it, that the carbon adjustment at the border was going to be the right mechanism to protect us from this unfair competition and to avoid carbon leakage. but if we consider that this is the right mechanism, then it must at some point replace the existing mechanisms, in particular those of the ets regulation, in all our climate policies, there were free allowances. i hope you have read, as i have, the court of auditors' report on the ets and on free allowances which follows other court of auditors' reports, which tells us that these free allowances are not only the most effective mechanism to serve the climate objective which is the subject of this debate, but also the most effective mechanism to protect our industries. there's this paragraph 28 in the report. what is the point of paragraph 28? i would remind you that the compromises in paragraph 28 were co-written by most of the political groups, including the epp. they were co-signed by most of the political groups, including the epp. they were voted on in committee by most of the political groups, including the epp. i would like to see the ep vote in plenary, not for loyalty, not for loyalty, but in this report we are not anticipating the reform of the ets. our only concern, ladies and gentlemen, is to ensure the credibility, legitimacy, legality in the eyes of the wto and the effectiveness of a border adjustment mechanism to strengthen our climate action and protect our industries. in conclusion, i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to respect all the work we have done in all the committees and i would ask the epp colleagues in particular to support the work you have done in all the committees, including the committee on the environment. we have a historic responsibility: to fight climate change is a citizen's aspiration. protecting our businesses and protecting our jobs is a citizen's aspiration and an employee's aspiration. so let's do it together, let's do it as we did in the committees, let's do it by voting the same way we did in the committees. i thank all the colleagues, once again, who have taken part in this report and all the colleagues who will be voting in the coming days, at any rate until tomorrow and wednesday for the final vote, respecting what has been done in the committees.
member of the commission. – mr president, i think it is a welcome initiative by parliament to highlight the importance of a carbon border adjustment mechanism, or cbam as we call it now. we know that climate change is the greatest challenge we face. parliament and the council are currently debating how to incorporate an increased target for emission reduction by 2030 in the european climate law. to make this ambition a reality the commission will next summer present a revision of all its climate and energy legislation, and the cbam will be a key element of the commission’s comprehensive green growth agenda. as highlighted in your report, the overarching objective of cbam is to help ensure the integrity and effectiveness of our climate policies by addressing the risk of carbon leakage. cbam is a climate measure. it is not a protectionist measure. it is about enabling the eu to step up to its climate ambitions. it is not to win unfair advantages over our partners. if third-country partners adopted effective decarbonisation policies similar to those of the eu, the need for this adjustment would be less. the cbam is one of the candidates for possible new own resources, following the own-resources roadmap as part of the interinstitutional agreement. the report addresses important aspects of the design of the cbam. the commission is currently considering different options. the measure could, for example, take the form of a system which would mirror the ets system and cover imports from third countries, but other options are also being assessed. the objective of sustainable growth calls urgently for a green transition, but also for a fair transition. the social and employment impacts of the cbam will be assessed and compared with the likely impacts of increasing the eu climate ambition without introducing such an instrument. the design needs, of course, to respect wto rules and our trade agreements, as well as other international commitments. let me say a few words about sectors. we have not made our choices yet, but the cbam will be designed in a way that allows, if need be, for a gradual extension of its scope over time. in selecting the sectors, we will ensure that the measure applies where the risk of carbon leakage is highest. the sectors referred to in your report are among the sectors under consideration. on the timing, the cbam will not enter into force immediately. our working assumption is to have it in place by 2023 as set out in the agreement on own resources. we are assessing various scenarios to allow for a smooth and predictable transition from the main measure currently in place to address carbon leakage – the free allowances of ets – and the cbam. we need the transition. it is important to engage with trade partners and this concern is also reflected in the report, because climate change is a global issue and the solution also needs to be global, and we have better conditions for this global agreement now. we need to coordinate with our trade partners. if we are ambitious together, we will be more effective, and the mutual benefits of our respective efforts will increase, and the climate cop in glasgow later this year will be an important moment in this regard. so i am happy to conclude that i share many of the concerns raised in the report, and i look forward to listening to your discussion on this important topic.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we need a carbon border adjustment mechanism (cbam) so that europe can effectively curb its global carbon footprint from the consumption of goods, not only those made in europe but also imported ones. this goal is clear: products entering the eu market have to bear the comparable cost of their greenhouse gas emissions, regardless of origin. in the eu we have an emissions trading scheme (ets), but imported goods have an advantage that is detrimental for reducing global emissions. i think that while working on the report we all agreed on this. i would like to thank the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs for their constructive work. but there are some details that we need to clarify. there are voices in favour of us making a transition from one system of anti-carbon leakage measures to another, the current one being free allowances under the eu ets, the future being the cbam. and here i think there is a problem. the possible phasing-out of free allowances will have detrimental effects for european exporters. and if we get rid of free allowances, we may foster carbon leakage, not within the sectors directly concerned, but in those dependent on production. therefore, we have to be very careful when stating that cbam is an alternative to existing measures. it clearly doesn’t work in the same way. when we are talking about the transition, i would like to make sure, commissioner, that the design of cbam will allow for the coexistence of this mechanism with free allocation in a wto—compatible way. we know that such a design is possible. otherwise the transition will turn into a direct switch and our economy is not ready for such an experiment. we in the european people’s party feel that in regard to ets reform, the report went a little too far, and we would prefer to bring the balance back so that the report is not a report on the future of the ets system but on the carbon border adjustment mechanism.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union's growing climate ambitions, combined with the economic crisis we are experiencing, are putting european industry in a very difficult position. the work on the mechanism for adjusting co2 prices at the border should therefore be carried out in a very responsible and thoughtful way. the design of the mechanism must take into account the implications not only for climate policy but also for the competitiveness and economic development of the member states. in order not to damage european industry by hasty decisions and actions, the mechanism must be implemented gradually on the basis of a pilot programme covering selected sectors. only a thorough analysis of this pilot phase will allow us to consider further action and to develop a stable mechanism, a stable legal act. the maintenance of free allowances with compensation for indirect costs is crucial from the point of view of continuity, stability and accountability. the planned mechanism should be seen as complementary to the existing ets arrangements and it would be extremely irresponsible to abandon them now. and we must not forget that the implementation... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president! both for the direction of change, for additional revenue for the european union to support the energy transition, and for the competitiveness of european companies. not to cover all industries, not to withdraw free emissions, not to create a mechanism within the european union and finally not to move money to third countries, because even frans timmermans said that there is no money for the energy transition and that it has been calculated incorrectly. why would you do that? because we don't have a climate law. the european commission, the european council and the parliament are still discussing it. we don't know what shape it's gonna take. 125 times it was said, "no to climate law". finally, on february 26, the un released a report that found that 40 percent of the countries that are parties to the paris agreement have declared that they will only reduce their carbon emissions by half a percent. we must be smart, or we will be embarrassed in the eyes of europeans and the whole world.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. we must work together to combat tax evasion. we appreciate the work of the european commission in this area and the cooperation with the oecd. this is very important to us. of course, individual states can also collect taxes. poland is one such example of a sealed tax system. we have great success here and much greater wealth. we can spend money on social policy or economic policy. in an age of extraordinary online platforms, let's not waste energy and take the european taxpayer seriously, noting that the digital giants are simply breaking tax laws. however, i am very surprised that the rule of law issue is being brought up in the analysis of the directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, looking for problems in this area. i don't think that's very appropriate. our voters want real debate and effective technical solutions, not a political agenda.
madam president! construction law should be formulated and enforced in such a way as to ensure the highest level of safety for workers and consumers. they should be environmentally friendly and, where possible, aligned with the objectives of the circular economy. in the context of the pandemic and the economic downturn, given the rising property prices, the priority should be to ensure that these changes do not negatively affect the price of products and services, which ultimately affects consumers' portfolios. technical barriers to trade in construction products which still exist in the common market must be reduced in order to ensure the free movement of such products. at the same time, it is necessary to consider whether excessive labelling of construction products is a good direction and whether it will not be another requirement that hinders the smooth functioning of construction companies. the digital aspect of the industry, namely its negligible presence, at least from the buyer's point of view, at the sale stage, must be taken into account. the introduction of new digital solutions will contribute to the improvement of the industry, allow for more efficient communication of product information and increase the transparency of the construction products market.
madam president! in some countries of the european union, a woman with a disability is carried to the gynaecological chair by a receptionist and a doctor because the office is not adapted to her needs. there are countries in the union where a woman with an intellectual disability, an adult woman, is completely deprived of the possibility of deciding on her own treatment. the legal guardian decides whether she can consult her doctor about her medical condition. in some lands, a deaf woman must go to the doctor with her hearing minor child, who serves as an interpreter. otherwise, he won't be able to communicate with the doctor. we can discuss reasonable accommodation of jobs, equal pay and quotas for the employment of people with disabilities. but people with disabilities will not be able to function in a competitive labour market unless we guarantee them their basic right to dignity.
madam president! among the disability issues, the presence of disabled people in the labour market continues to be a major challenge. in many countries of the european union, the unemployment rate is twice that of the normal population, and the employment rates of both women and men with disabilities are significantly lower, and disabled people also earn less. the question is, how do we change that, when we've been talking about it for years? what can i do to make this better? the solution may be alternative systems, i.e. the employment of disabled people in the open labour market, as well as the need to modify existing systems. but i certainly wouldn't be light-hearted about what a lot of the speakers have said today, to abandon safe-working facilities. and certainly the best recipe is good education, including digital education.
madam president! i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mrs irene tinagli and mr josé manuel fernandez, for their very hard and good work. strengthening investment processes is a key objective of investeu. governments and businesses have confidence that this programme will succeed. i believe that through investeu we will unlock these 400 billion euros for investment, which will of course stimulate an economy that is in a temporary crisis. investeu will certainly mobilise public and private resources, and linking it to the cohesion fund and the recovery and resilience plan will create synergies, and that is the point. in poland, we want to use investeu for investments that will strengthen poland on the one hand and europe on the other. and so, for example, we need to modernize energy in the spirit of a better climate. we want to build a central communication port that will serve poland and europe. we need to rearm the heating systems. there are people in europe who complain that they cannot afford to buy electricity and heat. this is the problem of the european union. so we also support that the 30% can be used to improve the climate. we don't know if it's gonna work, though, so let's hope it does. if that goal is to be achieved, we will support it. so let's start lending, leasing, guaranteeing, helping small and medium-sized enterprises, helping those who want to run an innovative economy, and then the whole european union will benefit from this programme. this is a real agenda, and i wish there were more of them in the european union, because we conservatives are very supportive of the reality that is behind our window, not some outdated ideology.
madam president! 26 billion to generate €400 billion worth of investment for europe is a common, very ambitious goal today. but is it enough? we'll answer that question later. it should be noted that these are repayable measures, but they will be able to be flexibly combined with non-repayable support under the european structural and investment funds. today, the economies of all our countries in the united states of europe are waiting for a huge boost to economic recovery, to return to stability, to emerge from the crisis. this is a huge challenge for the european investment bank, but it is also a test for national banks and financial institutions, which are 25% of the way to use this budget. poland is ready for this. of particular importance, also for poland, is the priority financing ranging from health, infrastructure, environmental protection, energy, transport to innovation and digital technologies. poland has made good use of the previous european fund for strategic investments. one euro generated more than 4 euros of investment in poland pln 19 billion. today, investeu as a package for the reconstruction of europe is another opportunity for our family businesses, investors, the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. emergency launch is our call.
madam president, to understand the nature of this investeu programme, we have to understand the context in which it arises at a time when the main beneficiaries of integration want to cut their contributions to the budget and at the same time seek a larger share of that budget in addition to the benefit they already get from the single market. the european commission, always ready to act as the notary of the interests of these countries and their economic and financial groups, has come to say that more could be done with less, but it is not, with less less less is less economic and social cohesion. unlike the structural and cohesion funds which are weakened by this financial framework, investeu does not have a guaranteed allocation per country based on cohesion criteria, as we proposed, and was rejected. the distribution of investment will thus tend to be proportional to the level of development of each country, and not inversely proportional, as we should have proposed. the result will be more inequality, less cohesion. competitive financial instruments give rise to this. it will be the companies with the largest capital in the largest european economies that will tend to benefit most from this programme. the rest is a gilded pill that does not resist this finding.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is now the most important financial instrument we have had for the last five years. the complementarity of public and private resources, public-private synergies and support for small and medium-sized enterprises have now matured as priorities and all obstacles need to be removed and all available technical assistance used by those concerned. the pandemic has highlighted the need for resilient investments with sustainability and a future perspective. to achieve a reduction in air pollutant emissions of at least 55% by 2030, we must have abundant renewable energy. investeu can support investments in batteries built in the european union, in offshore wind farms, which now have the potential to provide more than 35% of total electricity demand by 2050, and in wave energy, whose technology is currently 13 megawatts but has now matured and can attract investment. i was interested to hear, commissioner gentiloni, that investeu resources can also be used in areas which are in the process of desalination. this will increase the attractiveness for investment in our own western macedonia and we thank you. i would like to close with this: let me remind you that investeu is the successor scheme to the juncker plan. it is the scheme proposed here in this chamber by the former president of the commission, and i cannot help remembering that here in this chamber he often told us that our role was to create jobs, jobs and jobs for our citizens.
madam president, investeu and the eur 26 billion guarantee for the four crucial objectives is a step in the right direction. we know that it may attract more than eur 370 billion of investment across the eu. however, that transition must be just and geographically balanced. from lisbon through bełchatów to the towns around the baltic states. it is their citizens and particularly small enterprises that should have a chance to use investeu. still, this is not money for nothing. we should avoid financing grand, or should i say grandiose, projects that are not rooted in economic rationality but serve state propaganda. also, we have to remember that the transition must be based on the rule of law. even the best designed house can’t survive without strong foundations, and for us, they are made of the values we share.
madam president! the good thing is that investeu is complementary to the big funds and that it can be combined with other mechanisms. unfortunately, it lacks clear criteria and flexibility. there is a lack of analysis of what was good and bad about juncker's plan. because we see that it's a 1:1 shift with the same declaration that we're generating a similar amount of private investment. however, it is regrettable that, apart from saying that we are facing a double crisis and a pandemic, the criteria, the description, the loans and guarantees from investeu do not contain any pandemic at all. i think that to help small and medium-sized businesses tomorrow, next week, next month, you have to first see what's happening right now.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you get away with this. failure is success if we learn from it. i believe that we europeans will eventually overcome the pandemic, and i am fully convinced that the eu health programme will make a significant contribution to the gradual recovery process after the current painful impact of the ongoing covid-19 pandemic. as rapporteur for the cor on the work on the whole european health union package, i welcome the result of intensive work, during which we have reached a negotiated programme that finally identifies the shortcomings revealed by the covid-19 crisis and proposes appropriate support to ensure the strengthening of the capacity of the health systems of the european union. the programme is in line with the sustainable development goal goal 3, which aims to reduce non-communicable premature mortality by one third by 2030. at least €1 billion will be dedicated to disease prevention, which will support the health systems of the eu member states and provide real help for patients. the programme advocates a public health policy linked to the un concept of one health, disease prevention, synergy with the european cancer plan, references to the rare diseases and orphan medicines network, thereby attempting to improve the availability of medicines to eu patients, and will promote integrated cooperation through the exchange of best health practices. i also welcome the fact that the programme emphasises the importance and respect for the division of competences, without interfering with the architecture of the public health systems of the member states. it's often said that to win a war, you have to lose a battle. i believe that europe will win in the end, despite the earlier failures.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i can't hide my surprise -- and i'm sure the europeans who are listening to us are as surprised -- that you're so optimistic, not just in your speech, but also in the speeches of your colleagues, and that you all use the past tense when you talk about the pandemic. unfortunately, that's not enough to fight the pandemic. unfortunately, these are not the means to say that we're going to have an impact on vaccines, vaccines, anti-covid drugs. it's not enough money to pay for psychiatrists, therapists, psychologists to help us out of depression. we can't pretend that we don't see the reality, that we're not being held hostage by the drug companies that are blackmailing us. if we say that we are sending some positive signals in this way, the europeans will not believe us, that firstly, we will get out of the pandemic, and secondly, that we are united and that the european commission and the european union are doing well in this situation.
mr. chairman, please! unfortunately, we share the painful facts of today. as a united europe, we were not able to respond immediately to the covid-19 pandemic. has europe failed to act quickly and decisively in the crisis, in agreement with the member states? today, there is only one answer: urgent action and immediate response are needed to ensure that the life and health of no european union citizen is ever again put at risk. i believe that the eu's largest health programme is the answer. more than €5 billion over the next seven years is to increase the union's preparedness for health threats and to strengthen national health systems according to the needs and decisions of each country. it's an ambitious plan to ensure equal access to healthcare for every citizen in the union. it is our prevention, our fight against cancer, our response to the diseases of civilization and our support for all age groups in an ageing european society. investing in health is our duty and our shared responsibility for the present and future generations of europeans. this is an important step towards a credible 'health union'.
mr. chairman, please! health is the most important thing, because without a healthy society, we cannot grow and we cannot achieve our ambitious economic, environmental and social goals. the covid-19 pandemic has exposed the weakness of a shared healthcare system that was unprepared for such a challenge. the union's health programme must therefore become a key issue for every citizen. the efficient implementation and functioning of the programme should be ensured through close cooperation between the commission and the member states. it is important to ensure a decisive role for the member states in the management of the programme and to clarify the allocation of resources and objectives. mistakes such as those in the distribution of vaccines or the purchase of personal protective equipment must not be repeated. the programme should also include the treatment and care of non-communicable diseases, especially cancer, with special attention to prevention and diagnosis.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you get away with this. and the plan will only succeed if we tackle the biggest problem we have right now, which is the pandemic. for this to work -- and we've talked about this in this room -- we have to solve the vaccine problem first. vaccinating all those who want to be vaccinated is the key to our success. but there is no doubt that the recovery plan, the investments, all of this we can do to support entrepreneurs, especially the smaller ones, in those industries that are in a particularly difficult situation. but let us not forget that everyone needs to feel supported, both all the member states and all the groups. and let's not forget the elderly, the seniors, who are excluded and have been put in a very difficult situation by the pandemic. it is also very important to support young people, because they are also facing educational problems, the inability to use all the projects and programmes that have been available to them.
mr president, last week i went to syrian kurdistan, where some 100 french wives of jihadists and 200 children have been held for three years in the roj camps. the message i get from this is that some countries, like france, are making a strategic mistake by refusing to repatriate women and only agreeing on a case-by-case basis for children. if safety is important, and it is, what is the smartest thing to do? to repatriate them all, to try, convict and have the mothers who have all received a european arrest warrant serve their sentences and place the children or to let them simmer for several more years, risk their escape, their disappearance in the reconstituted jihadist channels and let them develop a hidden hatred towards their countries, including france? i think the choice is clear, if not easy in the eyes of public opinion. all counter-terrorism experts are convinced that repatriation is the right option for security reasons. 64,000 people, including many european nationals, are in the al-hol camp. mr high representative, do you not think that the european governments concerned would have a political interest in taking a joint decision on repatriation?
mr. chairman, please! it's been 10 years of suffering, tears, many killed, maimed, destroyed cities, economy, instability, collapse of state institutions. in the last three weeks, the syrian currency has lost 20% of its value, and more than 80% since the beginning of the crisis. 40% of the buildings are uninhabitable, and in ten years, syria's gdp has fallen by 75%. 90% of syrians are living below the poverty line. it's hard data that gives a picture of a tragedy that's happening an hour away from the borders of a european union member state. last week, i organized a conference on how to deliver humanitarian aid in the times of covid-19 (because we have to add that there is covid-19 in syria). children are out of school, there are long lines for bread and groceries. we are an outcast and today we want to say loud and clear that europe has so much to do that we must help the syrian people if peace cannot be brought there, and we should do a lot to bring peace.
in writing. the conflict in syria has been going on for 10 years and the situation is not changing, negatively affecting the lives of the country's population and refugees. the challenges today are primarily the deteriorating economic situation, the difficult humanitarian situation, the lack of progress towards a political solution to the crisis and the continued military presence of third countries russia, the us, iran, turkey and israel. according to available data, the conflict has led to the death of more than 500,000 people and displaced some 13 million people, more than half of syria's pre-war population. the number of refugees, who are mainly in lebanon, jordan and turkey, is currently estimated at 6.7 million, and internally displaced persons at around 6.2 million. it is of the utmost importance that we continue to follow developments in syria with the utmost attention, with particular reference to the talks taking place within the constitutional committee in geneva. a lasting solution to the conflict in syria can only be achieved through a political process in accordance with the provisions of the un security council resolutions and the 2012 geneva communiqué. we fully support the efforts of special envoy geir pedersen and call on all parties to engage in negotiations. we condemn the efforts of russia and iran to thwart a peaceful solution to the conflict.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. commissioners, i would like to thank you for your kind words. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european semester this year has a special dimension and a special significance, and there are very high expectations for it. because there's nothing more important now, in a time of crisis, in a time of pandemic, than building lasting good jobs, than giving people a perspective on the future, a perspective on rebuilding their businesses, showing young people the opportunity to get good and lasting employment. and this is certainly a very important challenge for all of us. the european semester on these issues, for example, with a strong emphasis on the role of digitalisation, is therefore to be welcomed. and i can agree with that part of the report. but of course, as always, the problems are in the details, and we have not avoided including in this report issues which are problematic to me, with which i do not agree, which impose on the member states successive indicators or measures and thus violate the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality. so when we talk about supporting social policies in the european semester, we should be particularly careful about regulations that are disruptive and fall within the competence of the member states.
madam president! commissioners and ministers! we are operating in an epidemic crisis, and yet i think the reference in the document to supporting the preparedness and resilience of national health systems is not enough, and that may surprise you. this area is of course listed in the challenges facing member states in the part on priorities, but not in the part on stimulating reforms and investment to support sustainable recovery. as regards the social dimension, and particularly employment, i would like to mention the crucial importance of tackling unemployment and accelerating the digitisation processes that are relevant to the labour market. i would also like to draw attention to all the weaknesses in the care system and model and the challenges that care services face.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! social and employment policy are matters which are primarily the responsibility of the member states. however, during and after the pandemic, common objectives and actions focused on addressing its negative impacts will be needed. the main problem is high unemployment, especially among young people, whose activation will be essential for economic recovery after covid-19. the accelerated digital transformation, which is already supporting the economy and creating jobs, could be an important driver of economic recovery. the european union should guarantee every citizen equal access to training and digital tools. however, we cannot forget the elderly and the difficult situation in the social welfare system. here too, action is needed to ensure the stability of pension systems and to provide long-term care, prevention and treatment.
madam president, madam minister, i have to go. the progress of the report in econ is a clinical example of the clash between two approaches: the health of a conservative approach that sees the european semester in accordance with its original function as a process of coordination of budgetary and economic policies, and a creative and, in essence, a wishful approach that seeks to make the semester a tool for the implementation of many political objectives and ideas. an approach that makes environmental concerns the top priority and subordinates economic objectives such as sustainable finance and economic development to it should be seen as extremely irresponsible, especially now in the face of an unprecedented crisis. meanwhile, the dreamers accuse the hard-nosed realists of not being ambitious. the single market is of paramount importance in the wake of the covid-19 crisis. it is the only way to increase the efficiency and competitiveness of the european economy. building the strategic autonomy of the european union is crucial. the outcome of this fight will be decided by a vote. but i'm afraid the irresponsible dreamers will win.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! we must thank the rapporteurs and mrs gálvez for having found a good compromise and for having prepared a good material for the debate. unfortunately, it was worse later, when they were working on a meaningful report, they added very ideological content related to environmentalism, related to ecocentrism. it's very expensive, it's unpredictable, and we have other real problems right outside our window today. we therefore believe that only sound investment, properly calculated, only the correct allocation of the structural funds and all the instruments available to the economy today, namely aid to entrepreneurs, aid to employers, aid to employees, social policy issues, is the challenge that is necessary now when we talk about preparing and implementing the budget in the european union in the coming years. so let's be smart and use the resources we have today to focus on areas that need quick and good intervention. and then the european union will be more competitive. everything can be counted, and ideas without counting are just a waste of time.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on competition are applied in the community. the european pillar of social rights is the european union's social creed by definition, which should be based on fair and well-functioning labour markets and welfare systems. however, in times of crisis, we expect more efficiency and effectiveness in action than in bold declarations. the european pillar of social rights action plan should aim to coordinate and provide adequate financial support, and set realistic targets and propose flexible solutions that respond to the challenges of the times. the implementation of the pillar shall focus on three aspects: employment, adult participation in education and training and the reduction of poverty and social exclusion. these aspects have been considered before and their implementation is facing significant difficulties in some countries. however, the pandemic has also revealed the need for urgent action on long-term care, access to social services and policies for older people. as the ecr, we also consistently stress that social and employment policy is primarily implemented by the member states and that governments bear responsibility for this. the european pillar of social rights should remain a non-binding instrument of a non-legislative nature and the implementation of its provisions should not infringe the principle of subsidiarity and lead to a top-down raising of social standards or the harmonisation of social security systems.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. unlike most of you, i am polish and i know the situation of the media in poland from the autopsy because i can observe it on a daily basis, and that is why i will tell you at this moment about the facts, not the false information that the opposition in poland is spreading. first, freedom of speech, freedom of the press. the constitution of the republic of poland guarantees the prohibition of censorship. secondly, the media in poland operate on the basis of the press law, the law on the national radio and television council and the national media. thirdly, the law currently being discussed in poland, which is at a very early stage of preparation, is based on the assumption of a premium, an advertising fee, and this assumption is directly taken from the european commission's 2018 proposal. fourthly, these regulations will affect the biggest media giants, digital giants, who do not pay taxes in poland, unlike the media that operate in poland and pay taxes. so we also have a disturbance of the equal conditions of the media in poland. and fifth, the minister pointed out that we must be vigilant and guard against misinformation. therefore, please do not organise debates in the european parliament based on false information and disinformation.
mr. president, i have to ask you... don't you find it strange that in hungary, freedom of the press dies every two weeks? can't you see that this is really a series of lies from the left? we're already familiar with these attacks. the difference is that after poland and hungary, they're now attacking slovenia. but actually, it's because these countries have characteristic right-wing governments that are not afraid to stand up for their values. and in all these cases, it's a false attack from brussels on an ideological basis against these governments. the whole club radio thing is one of those phrases-made political hysteria. unfortunately, in this case, the wife also seems to be a partner. this radio is subject to the same rules as any other radio of its type. frequencies can be acquired by law, and if you follow the laws, this radio can be acquired by law again. what is happening here is really the division and the breaking up of europe. and speaking of freedom of the press, ladies and gentlemen, let us talk about the jewish community radio, television, the weekly tv, which the socialist mayor of budapest, former mep peter niedermüller, is attacking these days because this tv refuses to assist him in his politics. now, that is the real problem with freedom of the press, ladies and gentlemen.
mr president, the actual leader of poland, mr kaczyński, has said that he will create budapest in warsaw, and he’s sticking to that plan also in the media sphere. public media have now become a goebbelsian instrument of europhobia and of attacking the opposition. now is the turn of the private media, and the latest attempt is spearheaded by a gentleman by the name of obajtek. he’s in hot water because free media are accusing him of having lied under oath. so you can imagine why he doesn’t like free media. but of course, public interest is that there should be free media. in mr obajtek’s petrol stations all around poland, pro-government newspapers and magazines are put on the top of shelves. and the idea is that the entire media market in poland is to resemble those shelves at orlen petrol stations. ladies and gentlemen, if we are to be in a position to lecture russia, china and belarus on free media, we should have it inside the european union above all. please, i ask you for solidarity on this issue.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen! i'm polish, and i'll tell you the facts too. the polish government is planning to introduce an advertising tax, which is essentially a bribe aimed at independent press, television and radio. the free media is treated as an enemy that is waiting for poland's sovereignty. the new attack on freedom of expression reinforces the authoritarian tendencies of the authorities and undermines the values of the union. on 10 february this year, i wrote to the commission asking what action it would take in this matter. since i have not received a reply so far, i ask again: does the commission believe that the advertising tax, while the polish government is financing pro-government media, including so-called public media, will lead to the collapse of many independent media, limiting media pluralism, undermining the rule of law and citizens' free access to information? how does the commission intend to react to this situation? what effective remedies does the commission intend to take, in line with mrs jourová's announcement today that the commission will not hesitate to react effectively? i'd appreciate your answer.
mr president, this is how democracy will look without free media. (the speaker held up a black sign with the words ‘free media’ printed in white and with which he covered his mouth)
mr. speaker, like doctors and nurses, journalists are on the front lines of the fight against the covid-19 pandemic. and we need them. the attacks on their freedom of the press and even on their very person sometimes worry me. in a context of growing propaganda, disinformation and fake news, their role is even more important now. democracy and the media go hand in hand. citizen scrutiny, informed by independent media and investigative journalism, serves as an essential watchdog to balance the balance of power in society. informed citizens are also involved citizens and can thus have a say in policy. free and independent media are the cornerstone of a democracy. the weaker the media, the weaker the state of democracy. we cannot tolerate the fact that member states try to silence the media by subtle or sometimes less subtle but above all deliberate means. that's why i'm making two calls today. the european commission is the first to be called upon. step up your efforts and intensify the research in the member states in the field of free, independent media. work on that toolbox and use it, too, on the ground where democracy is being realized. but i would also like to make a second appeal to the member states. ask yourself whether the media in your member state is still sufficiently independent and can function as a controlling power. and above all, be transparent so that the commission can gain a foothold in your country and free media can be a reality everywhere.
mr. president, i have to ask you... in hungary, the old joke, which we know from the communist system, is alive again: everything is allowed, everything is allowed. so is this press thing. those who dared to write, who dared to speak, who dared to present the truth about the orbán system, have been silenced today. the best of the independent hungarian press, the newspapers of the counties, the index, and most recently the klubrádió, have been killed by the authorities. while the hungarian media could be slowly starting a joint internship program in the north korean state media. i often feel here in the european parliament, my distinguished colleagues, that you wonder how such an unfit, corrupt and harmful prime minister of hungary as viktor orbán can still exist. well, ladies and gentlemen, most of the hungarians don't know, because they can't know the truth, because the orbán regime has deliberately eliminated the free press from hungary by party methods. my fellow members of parliament! we have learned by now: there can be no freedom of the press under orbán's regime. to do that, you must banish orban. i promise you, we will.
mr president, in at least the three countries we are talking about today - poland, hungary and slovenia - freedom of expression and information is at risk. it is a risk that is growing because in our countries, under the cover of the pandemic, restrictions are also applied to the development of information activity. we see in poland the blatant and brazen abuse of the public media as a platform for the government, the persecution of journalists, the hindrance to the free exercise of the press, the sale of free media to monopolies in the russian orbit. in hungary, the orbán clan has about 500 media outlets, 80 percent of the media landscape. and this is happening at the very moment when the business model of journalism itself is suffocating. adam michnik, the editor of gazeta wyborcza, the legendary freedom activist, has today called for his voice to be heard in this parliament, writing: 'the attack on press freedom in poland paves the way for a full-scale assault on the very values on which the european union was founded.' and that is true, your honours. europe cannot look the other way, because the free media is the vaccine against populist governments, whether left or right.
i am not going to tell you what i think. the debate today cannot be about media freedom, it must be about human freedom, because those who turn free media into propaganda are not about media. all the kaczynski, orban, erdogan, lukashenko, putin of the world have one thing in common: they want to turn free citizens into obedient subjects through lies and manipulation. the autocrats want their media, because in their world of propaganda, they are all the saviors of nations, the great builders, the unbreakable defenders of sovereignty, tradition and religion. in the state media, the government is always good and the opposition is always bad, because the dark people buy it, as the head of polish state television said. a controlled media is an endless brainwashing of public money, and a free media is a truth that allows you to make a choice according to reason and conscience. voting on the basis of a lie is not a free choice. so whoever turns free media into government media takes away your freedom because they take away your truth. this isn't about freedom of the press, this is about your freedom. mr kaczynski, mr orban, mr jansa, you are all in the same boat. by silencing the free media, you are taking away the freedom of your own people, but you know it, because that is your goal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. article 11 of the eu's charter of fundamental rights clearly states: "freedom of the media and its plurality shall be respected". we are far from that respect. the situation of media freedom and diversity is not optimal throughout the eu, but it is catastrophic in hungary, poland and slovenia. we need effective measures at eu level against the processes of cross-fertilisation and concentration in the media sector and effective protection of journalists. whenever governments restrict freedom of expression and diversity or artistic expression, it's a deliberate attack on public opinion and therefore a targeted attack on our democracy. we must recognize them earlier and finally counter them more effectively. the direct link with the rule of law mechanism in restrictions on media and artistic freedom is therefore urgently needed! and: the upcoming eu-level legislation on digital services and markets calls for full implementation of article 11 and the introduction of legislation to promote media diversity. ladies and gentlemen, i think we have had enough of the word change. we need action.
respected commissioner, respected vice president! today's debate on media freedom in slovenia is a very successful export of the internal political struggle of slovenian socialists and liberals from slovenia to the european parliament. the debate is misleading, because it does not fairly portray the slovenian media space and is harmful to slovenia, which is preparing for the presidency of the council of the eu. the european commission drew attention to the non-transparent ownership structure of slovenian media last autumn. the vast majority of slovenian national media are owned by transitional economists who, through their media, protect their economic interest, but openly support centre-left governments in all parliamentary elections, with the common goal of preventing the victory of janez janša in the elections, and now they are trying to overthrow his government. the average connoisseur of the slovenian media space is immediately aware that about 80% of the internal political editorial staff of the slovenian media, including the public rtv, are sympathetic to left-wing political parties. i also invite representatives of the european commission to slovenia to make sure that media pluralism does not threaten 20% of right-wing media, even though some are hungarian-owned. until then, i would like the slovenians to stop exporting domestic political issues to the european parquet, and our prime minister can also write a few tweets less.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i thank the honourable members for this very important debate, which showed that the topic we discussed is really very serious and has a wider context. this was not only a debate about the media, it was about our democratic society, whether it is still democratic when we are switching off one of the democratic safeguards which are independent media. i think that the debate also shows that we have to be very vigilant, not only in the three countries which we are debating today, but in all the member states. because when you look into the media pluralism monitor, which we published last year and which we will publish again in june this year, the trend is worsening everywhere in europe, almost everywhere. and so the vigilance is very, very important and we have to look at the issues from a wider perspective because we have a lot of lessons from recent history when we saw how democratic society was becoming an autocratic regime. and it was always the same pattern: switching off the safeguards. ruining the democratic safeguards, like independent justice, of course independent media, narrowing the space for civil society, being comfortable with specific citizens. the message is: if you want to be active come to elect once in four years and in the meantime, just shut up. i think that this is what we can see already now in some places in europe. i am not happy to say it, but we have to do more against these trends. that’s why we came with the idea of the rule of law report, which is covering all these different pillars, which we need for the rule of law principle to be respected at the member state level. that’s why we are looking at justice system, at media. we are looking at anti–corruption fight and some other things. and we are looking at all the member states, not only at some. because we also need to see the trend. we need to be able to start a dialogue with the member state early enough when we see a worrying negative trend. it’s not the first time the commission is devoting so much effort and energy to the media sector, because also, as i said, we have varying trends quite visible in in many member states. and this is the multi-layer issue. this week i will have another meeting with my fellow commissioners. i will represent the field of values, freedom of speech and right to information. thierry breton will represent economic matters, because we need better financing and a stable economic situation for the media. we see clearly that the media are economically weak they are such easy targets for the political pressures. there will be margrethe vestager, who is responsible for competition policy, which is so important in my view to change because we have to capture the cases of mergers of the media at the national level, which go against the freedom of expression and freedom of media. i will have the colleague, ms johansson, who is representing the field of law enforcement and security for journalists, because we have to do more on this side. yes, we have two murdered journalists already and we have hundreds of attacks against the journalists in europe this year, mainly online and mainly against women. so we have data. we have to work with the data properly. all the tools must be used in a forum. so i am in favour of progress in article 7 because we got stuck for too long a time and we have to see some progress. maybe the lack of enforceable rules, which many of you mentioned, at eu level show that such a worsening of the media situation was not foreseen by the legislators in the past. it was taken for granted that the media will always be protected and be able to work without any fear and without any political or economic pressure, while we see the truth. and that’s why i am really considering coming up with new measures and new tools. and, as i said at the beginning, we must stop looking at media only as the economic actor on the single market. this is a fatal mistake. we have to enrich our toolbox. the situation in the member states should improve and this worrying trend should be stopped. not because brussels wants that. it has to stop because the citizens in all the member states need to be objectively informed, because elections also are at stake. we need to guarantee free and fair elections. we need to guarantee that citizens will not be manipulated, that they will be able to cast their autonomous and free vote. and this is extremely important. two weeks ago, i participated in the all4jan award, organised in honour of the murdered journalist, ján kuciak and his fiancée martina kušnírová. and the prize rewarded telex in hungary, which started from scratch a few months ago, thanks to the support of readers. so at this moment, i would like to pay tribute to all journalists, media workers, media companies and organisations who keep fighting and doing their job under very difficult circumstances. ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, i know i am beyond the time, one minute, please. i would like now to switch into my language, the czech language, because i was inspired by ms beata szydło, who said here that she is polish. já jsem češka, jsem hrdá češka. jsem hrdá češka i proto, že česká republika dokázala za 30 let budovat velmi stabilní demokratický systém. a když byla nějaká ohrožení, tak se okamžitě česká společnost začala ozývat. není vyhráno a nikde není vyhráno. ale jako češka, která se narodila v roce 1964, jsem tedy dost stará, abych si pamatovala dobu před rokem 1989. panovala jediná oficiální doktrína diktovaná stranou a vládou, která byla neotřesitelná a nesesaditelná, která vládla bez jakékoli veřejné kontroly. za svobodný názor se šlo do vězení. a to, že jsme dnes společně v evropské unii, to je pro mě garance, že se tahle situace nebude opakovat v žádném z evropských států. nepřeji to žádným občanům žádného evropského státu. proto když říkám, že udělám všechno, abych bránila demokratické hodnoty včetně svobody médií, tak to skutečně plyne i z mého hlubokého přesvědčení, že je to nutné. proto dávám takhle silné sliby, protože věřím, že je budu moci naplňovat.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me repeat to you in this final speech the firm commitment of the presidency and the council to the defence of the protection of freedom of the press, to the defence of the rule of law, to the defence of the protection and promotion of fundamental rights. this is a shared responsibility with the other institutions and with the member states themselves. we must together respect, protect and promote our common values. only then can we be credible in our external action as well. independent media both underpin and have an impact on the defence of the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights. the vitality of our democracies can be seen in the pluralism and dynamism of our media. as the commissioner said, the media landscape is changing in europe and it is changing globally. we have to be very vigilant to make sure that freedom of the press and pluralism are maintained in this new framework. so let me be very clear on this, ladies and gentlemen. we are monitoring the situation in poland and hungary. we will continue the dialogue with these two countries under article 7, a dossier which the portuguese presidency is committed to advancing, the subject being in principle scheduled for the general affairs council in may. i would remind you that these hearings must be held in person and in the context of a formal council. informal videoconferences of ministers are not formal meetings of the council and any hearing organised by videoconference would fall outside the procedure laid down in article 7 and be subject to challenge before the court of justice. in respect of slovenia the circumstances are different and the framework of article 7 does not apply. the council will be attentive to the commission's findings in the framework of the rule of law mechanism, and this is undoubtedly the best instrument we have at the moment in the council to discuss these issues. we have to be vigilant. we have to work together. as i have said, media pluralism is one of the pillars of the commission's annual report on the rule of law, which in turn forms the basis of the specific dialogue we have with five member states every six months in the council. as i have already said, during the portuguese presidency we will discuss the rule of law situation in five member states, and all member states will then be assessed in a situation on their situation in terms of the rule of law and the situation of the media. the presidency has taken note of the various views expressed during this debate and will express them to the council.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. i am concerned about the eu's attempted interference in the media market in poland, where the media represent a mostly negative attitude towards the polish government. there is no, i stress this, no evidence of any attempt to silence any journalist. journalists in poland have full freedom of expression. nor is there any legislative action that could affect the status of the media. there is also no evidence that any public authority has tried to monitor or influence the media in poland. once again, poland is being called out and the eu institutions used in internal political struggle. in my opinion, it's even difficult to take seriously the next unsubstantiated insinuation.
in writing. today, all members of the european parliament received a letter from the editor-in-chief of the polish gazeta wyborcza, a letter that has become a symbol of the fact that a free media is the essence of freedom and democracy. adam michnik, as he says, uses strong language in it because the time for euphemisms is over. he writes about the transformation of public media in poland into a propaganda tube of power, the harassment of independent journalists, attacks on independent newsrooms using economic and legal tools. i agree with editor michniki. at the regional level of my silesia, i see these processes as clearly as at the central level. budapest has gone even further than warsaw in its subjugation of independent media. slovenia is beginning to follow a similar path. ladies and gentlemen, it is time to say it loud and clear: the death of a free press is the death of democracy, it is the end of the european union as a community of values. if we do not want the european project to end, the institutions of the union must act. all of them. quickly and without compromise.
in writing. freedom of the media and the independence of journalists are the foundations of a democratic society. we cannot speak of a democratic state if within it freedom of speech is violated and the media is trying to intimidate or take over. unfortunately, in my country, poland, the pis government has not only turned the state media into its own propaganda outlet, but also tries to silence those who speak the truth and are not subject to party influence. the local media, which were taken over by the state-owned orlen group, also lost their independence. hate speech against opposition figures and eu bodies, who admonish poland to respect the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary, is a constant feature of the state media. the free media that looks to power is treated as an enemy to be defeated and destroyed, for example by imposing a new advertising tax. access to reliable information and the right to choose the source of the information is the right of each of us to freely decide and make our own independent choices in accordance with our own convictions and conscience. citizens have the right to access information and media pluralism is a guarantee of freedom and sovereignty. this is not a debate about freedom of the press, it's a debate about freedom of every human being.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, you call us lunatics, you call us an irrelevant minority, you call us perverts, you call us an ideology, when all we ask for is equality. you paraphrase books written thousands of years ago to justify your hate. you take away our rights to distract from the shortcomings of your own politics. you scapegoat our community when all we ask for is safety. you attack our families. you tell people we are a threat. you deny us the right to be who we want to be, when all we ask for is freedom. but we will not give up just because you keep attacking us. we will fight for our freedom. we will fight for our safety and we will fight for our equality. this declaration might only be a first step; we know that our lives are still in danger, our rights restricted, our freedom brutally suffocated in far too many places in the european union, but it is a step and we are many. we are everywhere and we are strong. this declaration shall be a signal. a signal to the community everywhere in europe. this battle is far from being over. this story is far from being told, and it will take all of us together. but then, yes, then we can do it. we can make the european union an lgbtiq freedom zone.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. the text prepared by parliament is absurd and shows that this house has become a great ideological machine which wants to create a new man in the union at any cost, even by breaking the law and violating the truth about the law. article 9 of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu states that marriage and family matters are regulated in accordance with national laws. if president von der leyen says that being a parent in one member state means being a parent in all member states, and this phrase is repeated verbatim in the text of parliament, this is a clear violation of article 9 of the charter of fundamental rights. if it were true that a parent in one country is a parent in all countries, then article 9 becomes slippery, meaningless and should be thrown out. and the state threw that article in the trash. in many countries, including my own, marriage is between a man and a woman and the foundation of a family. it's in the constitution. so when local governments defend the family and don't want to indoctrinate children without parental consent and don't want ideological officers going into schools and telling children absurdities about genders and gender fluidity, they are standing on the basis of national law, the constitution of the country and the charter of fundamental rights of the eu. defending the family is their sacred right and they can't take that away. there is no legal or moral obligation to let any indoctrinator into schools, even if that indoctrinator has powerful supporters in the european institutions. and anyone who orders them to enter against the wishes of the school administration is violating the law. the whole action against these local authorities, also by the commission, by norwegian funds, is illegal and represents brutal pressure, as is the action of parliament today. it's a policy of intimidating people, intimidating, humiliating communities. there's an ideological frenzy going on here. you have no respect for people. like every radical leftist, you want to make a revolution. and as for the facts, check the osce data on so-called hate crimes, especially attacks on homosexuals. what countries have the highest number of deaths? data for 2019: 574 cases in the netherlands, 248 cases in germany and 163 cases in belgium. what's the smallest? lithuania has 2 cases, poland 16. so maybe you should be talking about germany and belgium here, not poland and other eastern european countries. western european countries are racing each other in ideological action, feeding babies gender and sex fluidity from the cradle. ideological officers don't come from schools, media, and corporations. you're impeding scientific research, you're censoring these topics, you're poisoning the language and the minds of political correctness. what's in it for you? the opposite of what we're trying to do is that the violence is there, not here. then calm down ideologically. let the people live, not make a revolution, make the union a free zone for common sense. i know it's hard, but i still recommend it. at least don't lie, because if you say that a country like poland is a country hostile to homosexuals, that we have lgbt-free zones, you are lying. i repeat, that is not true. and to tell a lie is a shame, a shame. if you still know what that word means.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i belong to a generation of homosexuals who have seen how my society has evolved from a culture in which homophobia, lesbophobia and transphobia were still very prevalent, to a new culture in which the demand for lgbt rights is widespread. lgbt rights are human rights, it is inconceivable that eu countries that receive eu funds can discriminate against citizens because of their sexuality. the unacceptable situation in poland can be repeated in several states if it is tolerated. europe's role in the world depends on how strongly it defends human rights within its borders. allowing the violation of lgbt rights would mean encouraging the violation of lgbt rights globally, renouncing treaty values and putting millions of people around the world at risk. this initiative to make the union an area of lgbt freedom is fundamental and i hope it will have the massive support of this house.
madam president! greetings from warsaw. it is obvious that if all the member states of the european union were governed by decent people, we would not have this debate today and we would not have to adopt a resolution which is obvious to most europeans. but unfortunately, mr. madison, i can tell from a polish perspective as a pole and a catholic what is true and what is propaganda. and shame, mr. legutko, that you have stood on the dark side of power, using the very language of untruth and insinuation, lies, in fact. i am ashamed as a pole that the highest ranking politicians in poland, including the president and the minister of justice, use the language of hatred and exclusion. i am ashamed that this is happening in my country, which is so famous for tolerance, with great poles like władysław bartoszewski, who said: "it is worth being decent". this prisoner of auschwitz, a soldier of the anti-german conspiracy, as well as the anti-communist opposition, was urging tolerance and reconciliation, using this very statement. it is worth being decent, but these indecent people must be removed by polish society, and i would like to cordially invite commissioner, benjamin's grandmother, from warsaw to poland, to this wonderful country, so that you can see how great polish society is, how great our history is and how we will remove the vast majority of indecent people.
madam president, every single person in every part of our union should be able to live their lives with equal rights, irrespective of the way they were born. it sounds so simple. yet this is not the experience of thousands of persons in poland and hungary today, who are seeing their rights being stolen away. this is the reason why we are here today. everyone must be given the assurance that, as their representatives in the european parliament, we are working tirelessly to safeguard their fundamental rights. because this is what europe means. europe means the guarantee of fundamental human rights. europe means solidarity between its people. europe means all of us living together, irrespective of our differences. europe means democracy, peace, fairness. europe means freedom of movement. europe means liberty. and today europe means an lgbtiq freedom zone. it is our obligation as representatives of the people, as much as it is of the commission, to ensure that this is the europe experienced by all citizens, irrespective of where they live in the union. this is why we need to unite as european institutions against those who abuse and oppress our citizens. even when this is done by the polish president, who believes that we are an ideology. no, we are human beings. even when this is done by the hungarian prime minister, who last week said that we are lunatics and that we should be hidden. no, you will not make us invisible again, mr orbán. whether we are trans, straight or gay, we are here to stay. aħna lkoll maltin. wszyscy jesteśmy polakami. mindannyian magyarok vagyunk. nous sommes tous européens.
madam president, my congratulations to the commissioner and the new granny, excellent news! today parliament sends a message to everyone out there: europe is an lgbtiq freedom zone. because europe belongs to all of us. it’s the home of all of us, all – no exceptions. and at home, we have the right to be safe and free because that’s what europe is all about. i’m very proud and grateful of this initiative led by my colleague pierre karleskind. and it is an initiative that’s resonating widely in europe already. and it is necessary, because others have also referred to it: david polfliet was brutally murdered in belgium last week. he was a fellow european, but some people believed that he did not have the same right to freedom and safety as everybody else because of who he was. you see, hate speech kills, and keep that in mind, colleagues madison and legutko, hate speech kills. and the polish so–called ‘lgbtiq-free zones’ are a message of hatred, and are also terrible city marketing, by the way. but our message is stronger, because our message today is one of unity and humanity, and belonging together, because everyone belongs in europe. and i therefore call on all europeans to echo and amplify today’s message, and let us put up the lgbtiq freedom zone signs in every town of europe.
madam president! of course, there are no lgbt-free zones in poland, but to test your true intentions, i have made an amendment that the european union is not only a lgbt-free zone, but for everyone, regardless of religion, beliefs or skin color. but you reject it. because you're not interested in tolerance. you're talking about the expansion of left-wing activism into traditional values. once again, you can see in this room the colonial thinking that your culture is better than polish culture. meanwhile, look at your statistics - it turns out that there are fewer attacks on lgbt people in poland than in your progressive netherlands, belgium or germany. homosexuality was never punished in poland, but in your country it was. finally, there are more women in management positions in poland than in your country. so maybe this traditional culture is no worse than your new social engineering. you think you're going to teach the backward poles a new culture. but it wasn't our culture that created the crime industry in africa or nazism. that's why none of you will teach the poles culture. at a time when monuments to lenin are being erected in germany, poles must defend traditional european values and common sense.
madam president, too often we think that the discrimination of lgbtiq people is limited to specific regions of our union. no! there is discrimination and hate crime all over europe. we socialists and democrats strongly condemn the despicable murder of a gay man in belgium, who was lured by three youngsters via a dating app and lynched on the spot. many of us fellow members of the lgbtiq community were assuming that things were getting better; unfortunately, the situation across europe is worsening. while nurses, doctors and people fight covid—19, the polish and hungarian governments have nothing else to do than scapegoat lgbtiq people in an attempt to demolish democracy. in poland, the activists who documented the adoption of anti—lgbtiq resolutions by local authorities are prosecuted with the support of the ultra—conservative organisation ordo iuris. we need the commission to protect activists from strategic lawsuits against public participation. in hungary, the minister of justice, judit varga, said on women’s day that she only celebrates ‘real women’. indeed, the fidesz government basically outlawed trans and intersex people last year. we need to act. the commission’s excellent lgbtiq equality strategy must rapidly be put into concrete action. the eu must be a freedom zone for all, and this must include lgbtiq people. declaring the eu an lgbtiq freedom zone is a signal that all eu institutions and member states have to secure the rights of lgbtiq people.
madam president! it is time for the whole of the european union to become a human rights area where everyone is equal, where everyone is protected from discrimination, where no one is excluded, regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity. the lgbt+ freedom zone is an important signal, but it's just the beginning. this must be followed by concrete decisions, both political and legal. if we have to change the treaties, let's start changing them. if the commission lacks the competence to protect human rights, let us start changing that competence. marriage equality, the right to raise children, protection against hate speech and hate crime, the right to decide on one's gender identity must be the laws of the european union. these are the rights of every european woman and every european man. commissioner, get to work!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today we declare that the european union is a zone of freedom for lgbtiq people. yes, unfortunately, in 2021, that's not self-evident and it's appalling. so we will keep saying it: lgbtiq rights are human rights and must be protected as such throughout the union. the rise in discrimination against lgbtiq people in the union is not coming out of nowhere. it is rooted in the hatred distilled by certain heads of state and government, and this at the highest level. so why, with this white-seating, should citizens not feel free to insult or attack lgbtiq people? this feeling of impunity is particularly prevalent in poland. this is intolerable. we will continue here as long as it is necessary to remind that the european union is an open and secure area. i am glad that we now have the financial means to put pressure on states which do not respect fundamental rights, so let us not be afraid to use them.
(start of speech off-mic) ... debates an issue which essentially does not exist. after numerous debates on so-called lgbti-free zones in poland, we saw that a lie repeated often enough became the truth. using this lie, the liberal elites, which are represented by the narrow majority in this house, are now on the offensive. we are aware that you want to destroy the family as a unit of our societies. we know that you want to impose unnatural and dangerous ideas like the scientific fact that there are only two genders. we know that you want to erase all traces of traditional european and christian values. what you should know is that we will not allow it. we do not need to proclaim the eu as an lgbti freedom zone because the european union is already the safest place on earth for lgbti people. what we do need, however, is the european charter of family rights, which will strengthen the legal protection for traditional families and uphold the simple truth: a family consists of a mother, father and their children. you must know the deviant sexual practices and lgbtiq ideology can and will open the door to child abuse and paedophilia, and we shall not allow it. our peoples will stand for traditional european values and will be ready to hold them.
madam president! "whatever you did for one of the least of these my brothers, you did for me". hey, you on the right of parliament, united in nothing but hate. you know that? the third decade of the 21st century. the european union, poland and so-called lgbti-free zones, open institutional discrimination against non-heterosexual people. shame and disgrace. you make a fool of poland every day of your rule. and we here have to prove every day that poland is not pis. i'm not gay, or bisexual, or transgender, but i can imagine what it's like to be challenged by the president of your country for being an ideologue. i can only imagine what it's like to be called a rainbow plague by the archbishop, your propaganda ally. and i stand behind you, my rainbow brothers and sisters, the wall. as a man, but also as a silesian. in silesian, my native language, rainbow is "danga", a very beautiful word that also shows our multiculturalism. it is as beautiful as the idea of european integration. and today we are declaring the european union a free zone for all lgbti people. here we are all equal, here we are all home and welcome.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the minister and the honourable members for this debate. the commission has on several occasions taken a strong stance in favour of equality for all and equality in all of its senses. i look forward to a strong cooperation with the european parliament and implementation of the lgbtiq strategy, which will be key to advancing lgbtiq equality in all member states. we have already launched the process towards the presentation of an initiative by the end of this year to extend the list of eu crimes to cover hate crime and hate speech, including when targeted at lgbtiq people. the fight against discrimination and the advancement of equality is, and will remain, a priority for the commission. thank you for the strong support in building a union of equality for all, not least for lgbtiq people. let’s make the eu an lgbtiq freedom zone without delay. and may all of us be able to be true to who we are without even thinking twice about it, wherever we are in europe.
acting president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i hope that benjamin and all children can grow up in a european environment of tolerance and freedom to be who they want to be, without discrimination and without violence. we've come a long way from here. much has been achieved, but much remains to be done to ensure equality. and as policy makers, it is very clear to me: we have a duty to promote, in a vigilant way, the full respect for the rights of lgbtiq people throughout the european union. the rights of lgbtiq people, like the rights of all citizens of the european union, are human rights that must be respected and defended.
in writing. the most important law, which is the meaning of humanity, is clear: all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. this unconditional right applies to everyone and is due to every person in the world. whether the various kaczynski, orbán, lukashenko, unos and putin like it or not. whether they decree it or not. therefore, any despot who violates human rights will sooner or later be brought to justice. the equality of women, which stryk kobiet is fighting for in poland, the equality of gays, lesbians, bisexuals and transgender people, are not "minority rights". these are human rights. because every one of those people is human. and no majority can grant those rights, much less take them away. they are natural and indispensable. a zone free of any human being is a zone free of humanity. so this is the zone of bestiality, the zone of the end of human civilization. no more asking for equal treatment for women or lgbtqi people, because no one - no black person, no duda in this world - has the right to decide who is and who is not a human being. no more asking for tolerance for non-heterosexual people, because if i ask, it means that someone has the right to refuse to tolerate another human being. it's time to demand the equal and dignified treatment of every human being.
in writing. the eu is founded on the values of respect for human dignity and equality, which are common to the member states (article 2 teu). this foundation obliges the eu institutions to 'fight against all discrimination, including on grounds of sexual orientation' (article 10 tfeu). i would like to emphasise the fact that the special protection of the family based on the union of a man and a woman in marriage is guaranteed by the polish constitution (article 18) and that the union, in the provisions of the treaties, respects the equality of member states before the treaties as well as their national identity, which is inextricably linked to their basic political and constitutional structures, including with regard to regional and local self-government (article 4 (2) teu). all member states have an obligation under international law to protect the family. the family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and has the right to protection by society and the state (article 23 (1) of the international covenant on civil and political rights). the implementation of this commitment should be supported. the european union does not have exclusive competence in family matters and, in accordance with the treaty principle of subsidiarity, it is the local level, which is closest to the citizen and to the family, that is competent to support the family. poland attaches importance to the constitutional principle of equal treatment, which states that everyone is equal before the law and that all groups at risk of exclusion should be treated equally without any exception.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. thank you for outlining the strategy for children's rights. it is high time for the european union to take a holistic approach to the protection and effective implementation of children's rights across a range of policies. there is no way to combat violence against children without the cooperation of law enforcement and the judiciary. you cannot talk about protecting children's rights online without proposing solutions in the area of education or regulations regarding online platforms. you can't tackle child poverty and exclusion without tackling health, environmental protection and financial support. i am sure you will agree with me that there will be a need for a balance between what we must and can do at eu level and the tasks that remain the responsibility of the member states. the union and the member states should not compete in this area. we in the european parliament should also work together on the future strategy. only then will we be able to effectively respond to the challenges facing us and our children, which the pandemic has only exacerbated. as we begin the debate on the future of europe, arguing about the future of the european union, let us remember that the future of europe is its citizens, its young people. they will shape this europe. that's why it's so important to protect children, to invest in them, and to give them a voice right now.
in writing. the child's best interests should be the guiding principle in ensuring the proper development and safety of children. what europe will look like in a dozen or so years' time will depend on how we look after the youngest generation. during the pandemic, the risks faced by children, wherever they live, have increased. the dangers of the internet, and the rise in some countries of domestic violence, partly due to the deteriorating mental health of the population, are things that we need to address effectively. we must not forget that the most important social unit that has the greatest influence on the upbringing of children is the family. the family should be protected and supported in various ways by the institutions of the state and the union. every child should have the right to be raised in a biological family, with respect for his or her rights, including the right to life and the right to full and harmonious development. support for families raising children should be increased. as in poland, new programmes targeting families with children, including financial support, have been introduced and existing programmes have been extended. new approaches have been adopted in the areas of education and health care, protection against violence and listening to the child. ladies and gentlemen, let's strengthen families and protect children, because they are our future.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. conditionality for the use of european union funds must be based on objective, specific, measurable and adequate criteria which do not allow for political instrumentalisation and uncertainty. the application of the general conditionality mechanism must not create the space for abuse and the kind of emotional agitation that we often hear in this house. its application shall not lead to its extension to the rule of law checks in the member states provided for in a separate treaty mechanism. poland consistently rejects the regulation on the general conditionality system for the protection of the union budget, which is part of the budgetary package of the new financial perspective. it took this position during the drafting process and opposed the adoption of the regulation despite support for the entire budget package. the commission should be able to take into account the specificities of the union's external action in the field of the common fisheries policy, in particular the specificities of the union's external action in the field of the common fisheries policy, and the specificities of the union's external action in the field of the common fisheries policy. they contain a number of conditions which the institutions of the european union, and in particular the european commission, must fulfil before they can take action under the regulation. the conclusions indicate in particular that any possible triggering of the budgetary protection mechanism must be preceded by the development of guidelines for its application, prepared by the commission in agreement with the member states. i emphasize: in agreement with the member states. the guidelines must also take into account the decisions of the court of justice of the european union relating to possible appeal against the regulation. poland, like some other member states, intends to exercise its right to challenge the regulation.
madam president, commissioner, a community of states cannot exist without a community of law. what underpins europe is the common foundation of values and it is these values, affirmed and then defended gradually, that have brought europe out of the darkness of absolutism, fascism, dictatorships and wars to become this space of freedom and equal rights that defines us. respect for the rule of law is therefore not an option, nor even a mere conditionality. it's a condition, an existential condition. and that is why, wherever women's rights, the rights of ethnic and religious minorities, lgbt people, the independence of the judiciary, political freedoms are being called into question at this moment, the european commission must sanction. and she must punish now, because not to do so is to take a huge risk for the future.
madam president, it is an ironic coincidence that this debate on the rule of law mechanism is taking place in the same week that this parliament has approved to waive my immunity, together with that of my colleagues puigdemont and comín, because of a political prosecution. article 3 of the regulation says that endangering the independence of the judiciary is a clear indicative of breaches of the principles of the rule of law. nice! in recent weeks, colleagues have received information about the lack of independence of judges in spain: judges that ignore the presumption of innocence; judges that want political prisoners subject to re—education programmes – yes, re—education programmes; judges that hold in contempt the reports of the united nations working group on arbitrary detentions. but hey, it’s spain, so the commission and the council look the other way! in fact, the regulation is so weak that it’s only about the budget. so no worries about persecution of dissidents as long as it does not affect the budget! it’s been a bad week for this parliament, but colleagues i’m still hopeful, as a good fraction of you – not the majority, but a good fraction of you – did not bend to the authoritarian pressures of spain.
i have to say, madam president, in the case of some members or one individual, the courtesy does not seem to match the volume of their speech. i think you're a very good chairman. i needed to. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the budgetary conditionality mechanism came into force on 1 january this year. the council conclusions of december call on the commission to draw up guidelines for its application, including the reasons given by the court of justice for a possible action for annulment. no action has yet been brought before the court of justice, the time limit for bringing an action expiring in four days' time on 15 march. i would like to reiterate clearly at this point that budgetary conditionality is a regulation and therefore fully applicable from the moment it comes into force, regardless of the drawing up of directives or whatever. it can only be modified by a judgment of the court of justice. we expect the commission, as guardian of the treaties, to apply the mechanism fully and in accordance with the law, despite the criticism of individual governments. if the ecj has ruled, then its decisions must of course be implemented accordingly. we also expect the commission to coordinate closely with parliament in its ongoing work on the directives. we shall be preparing an own-initiative report on this subject in due course, under the auspices of the committees responsible.
mr. chairman, please! well, we have the compromising of the eu institutions on vaccinations, on the visit to moscow, on economic problems, and you, as usual, are dealing with the rule of law in poland. anyway, you do it - maybe it's a method - but you do it in the usual way, at the municipal level, that is, you talk about the rule of law being the most important thing in the european union, until you can get emotional. now, can any of you finally answer the questions in detail? perhaps you, commissioner, would have the courage to compare the systems for selecting judges in poland and germany, because the main complaint against poland concerns the way in which the selection of judges is politicised. there is no more politicized way of selecting judges than in germany, the same way of selecting judges, commissioner, is in spain and poland. it's written in your documents, so please explain to us how it is that you claim that the same system breaks the law in poland, and the same system in spain does not break the law. what's with the double standards? is this how you want to build the union's strength? do you have the courage to answer that question in detail?
madam president, colleagues, i have to say that i am very sorry. in december, the european union's heads of state or government reached a historic agreement, clearly stating that no worldview standard, no worldview condition, can be imposed on member states by means of budgetary means. the eu's development funds are meant to bring member states closer together, not to be used as a tool of blackmail by one side in ideological disputes. the agreement reached in december sets this out clearly and it is time for parliament to accept this reality. let us set out a basic principle: the union works well when it works on the basis of the treaties. the treaties can be amended by unanimity and the sovereignty of the member states on these important issues must not be infringed. it is sad that the agreement reached in december, this strengthening of european unity, should be sacrificed by the european parliament in order to continue the ideological battle and the accusations it has been waging against right-wing governments for some time.
madam president! the regulation we are discussing today is obvious, even banal in content, because we are talking about protecting eu funds, about protecting budgetary funds in the event of violations of the basic principles enshrined in the treaties or the constitution. i'll remind mr. jaki that the rule of law is one of the foundations of our community. no one has the right to act on the principle of vigilance, even if he invokes sovereignty, because sovereignty is not the vigilance of the government or the consent to circumvent and break the law. so, if you're not breaking the law, you have nothing to fear. anyone who acts in accordance with the treaties and the constitution has nothing to fear, and our duty in parliament - and yours too - is to protect the rights of citizens, legal certainty for businesses and funds that should go to the final beneficiaries, not to the pockets of oligarchs or autocrats who want to use public funds to pursue party propaganda goals. eu taxpayers, including poles - and i want to emphasise this - do not accept the lack of control over eu funds to a very large extent. i would therefore like to say from warsaw that we look forward to good cooperation between the commission and parliament in this area.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. my constituents tell me that the european union is behaving a bit like the titanic. we have another debate, culturally, kindly, and in poland and hungary, brave people are taking to the streets in defense of women's rights, in defense of minority rights, for free courts and free media. how many more debates do we need to have here in the european parliament, commissioner, before the european commission realizes that the clock is ticking, that democracy is becoming more and more brown. this mechanism is the hope for many people in poland and hungary, all those who have democracy at heart, that the european union will defend them against the orbans, the kaczyński's, against all those who today raise their hand against their citizens. this mechanism must be implemented quickly. and not one euro, not one euro can go to kaczynski, orban to strengthen their anti-democratic system, because that's like giving matches to children. this money has to go -- and it has to be heard very loud and clear -- in the hands of the ngos, the free media, the citizens of these countries that are fighting so valiantly for democracy today. and that's the message we need to send today, loud and clear, to poland, hungary and all the other countries.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. today is truth day. for months, commission representatives have been saying very clearly and strongly that the conditionality mechanism is to protect the budget, it is to be a tool that is objective, measurable, concrete. and today is the moment of truth, commissioner, because it is clear from the speeches of my predecessors, who represent the left-liberal majority in this chamber, that this is to be a political instrument, a political blow to right-wing governments. nothing else and nothing more. this is the day of truth, the curtain has fallen. what do you want? you failed to invoke article 7 against poland, so a mechanism called conditionality was devised. conditions for what? the preconditions of democracy in poland, because democracy in poland has decided that the government is right-wing, and that's not what they like in the european parliament. you want to influence the decisions of the citizens of the member states through this mechanism of conditionality. that is against the treaties. how are you feeling, commissioner? there's a strong word i'd rather not use out of respect for the house. it was simply used as an element of the fight against law and justice in poland, as a representative of the platform admitted today on the radio, saying that it was on... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i would like to thank you. the threats to democracy and the rule of law are real. countries such as poland and hungary have for years undermined the independence of the judiciary, attacked the media and attacked civil society. and the left would have liked to see a much stronger instrument that focused on defending democracy and the rule of law. now we have a wing-tipped instrument that is primarily intended to defend the eu budget. but it has to be used, and here things become very obvious. the commission; so many words to do nothing: monitoring tool box, dialogue. you've known about this for years. why aren't you doing anything? and by doing nothing, you are not only failing all those who are fighting for democracy and the rule of law in poland. you are also failing the rest of us, because these authoritarian governments, sitting in the council of ministers, are making laws that apply in every eu country. every day that passes without you taking action, this thing spreads. as we see now in slovenia where the media is under attack. democracy cannot wait, lgbtq activists, women's rights activists and journalists cannot wait. you must act now.
madam president, i must say that the values of the rule of law are the values of the european union, and it is a great success that we have now managed to have this regulation in force. for a lot of members of this house, this was a dream that came true. however, i should make two remarks here. first, it’s not acceptable that we start the implementation and application of a rule of law regulation by violating the rule of law, because it is in practice suspended until the decision of the luxembourg court. and i regret that the council is not here, because the council is responsible for this deal, where we have a regulation for the rule of law that doesn’t comply with the rule of law because it’s not going to come into force in the very first months, or even years, of its application. and then let me say that the rule of law can, of course, be enforced with the suspension of funds. but that is not all, and article 7 is not bad, and it should also be implemented by the council towards hungary and poland. it’s not only a question of money, it’s a question of values.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is also moving forward because of its ability and the need to build compromises between the different positions of the member states and the political groups, here in the european parliament and in the council. however, there are some issues on which no compromise can be made, above all the protection of the health and welfare of citizens, the absolute respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law. when the polish and hungarian governments took the approval of the union budget hostage, they made a very serious gesture against all europeans. we were in the midst of a pandemic and they risked jeopardising the recovery plan, just to block the entry into force of the rule of law conditionality mechanism. europe has been able to react, neutralizing that threat and putting those two governments, sovereignists, yes, they say, in a corner, but at the expense of the sovereignty and the interests of their own citizens. but if the european council, in its conclusions of december, now decides to delay the application of the rule of law mechanism, making it conditional on the adoption of further guidelines and the opinion of the court of justice, then it is taking an unacceptable step backwards which we have a duty to oppose. we are asking the commission to ignore this request from the european council, which should have been here today, as this decision is not binding at all. we also call for a guarantee that the regulation will be fully and immediately implemented: the commission's role as guardian of the treaties is not to be compromised.
ladies and gentlemen! brexit has taught this chamber nothing. another attack on poland, on hungary, on the sovereign countries. and my country has survived a lot, it has survived prejudice, it has survived communism, it has survived times when foreign ideologies were imposed, but we have resisted it. once again history has turned a corner and is trying to force a new ideology on us to engineer a new human being, just because we oppose it, because we oppose the recognition of gay marriage, because we oppose the adoption of children by gay couples, because we care about the family, because we have not adopted the euro, because we want to have a strong economy and our own economic policy. we're being punished for that. and i want the commissioner to be very clear today about the definition of the rule of law, the definition of the rule of law, because we want to act on the basis of the law, we want to reform the justice system, because it has not been reformed since the communist times. we're being punished for that. therefore, commissioner, i expect you to clearly interpret the minutes of the december 2020 council summit, where member states objected to the budgetary link with the rule of law. explain that to me.
madam president, i should like to welome the commissioner back to the european parliament. over the course of the next years we the european union are going to spend more money than ever, from the budget of the european union, from the eur 750 billion recovery fund, which will help people, enterprises and regions affected by the corona pandemic. one thing is clear, the more money we spend, the more control we need. the more money we spend, the more we need to make sure that money reaches the people in need, the real beneficiaries: farmers, students, entrepreneurs, researchers, the cities and the villages. these are people for which the eu funds are designated. we need to make sure that money reaches them. now is the time to start implementing the decisions which we have made on linking the rule of law with eu funds. this is why, commissioner, we call upon the european commission to start implementing the regulation and to come up, as soon as possible, with the guidelines on how to apply the regulation and carry out the assessment. the regulation has to be immediately and fully applicable so that we deliver to the citizens what we have promised: good control of eu funds.
madam president, once again in this room we are talking about a mechanism for building conditions with regard to the principles of rule of law. when we talk about such a mechanism, we must clearly say what the rule of law is and what are the principles of the so-called rule of law. we have the rule of law when we have different powers, a fair trial and respect for civil rights and freedoms. when we talk about the rule of law, you’re referring to the lgbti rights, minority rights and so on. in fact, the rule of law is the same rules for all, equal rights and obligations, nothing more and nothing less. the countries of poland and hungary are being targeted for another reason. the reason for this is not that the general principles of the union have been violated. the reason for these attacks are that these two countries began to defend their national sovereignty and took a conservative and nationalistic approach. it is extremely unacceptable for us, and for me, to apply such a mechanism for the purpose of political pressure. because let’s not be mistaken, the mechanism aims to change and subordinate national governments to the dictates of brussels, not to support the rule of law. let us not forget that the european union is still a union of equal and sovereign states, not some kind of mickey mouse confederation centralised in brussels.
i have to say, madam president, rule of law conditionality. what's this? what's this? the essence of the matter is that european taxpayers' money should not be used to support the erosion of democracy and the rule of law, because we have been seeing this for years, and even with article 7 procedures the council and the commission have not been able to come up with clear positions or even sanctions. they referred to infringement procedures, verbal warnings, but they did not impress hungary and poland. worse, the lack of clear announcements against anti-democrats emboldened fidesz and pis, and other governments are following. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council and the commission must now use the conditionality because it is already shortly after twelve o'clock.
madam president, obviously this mechanism is just a political tool, so i’m not going to get into it. because everyone knows that this is a political tool that has nothing to do with the rule of law. i’d like to give you a message from the majority of the polish people. the message is very clear, it’s been said out loud seven times in a row. the polish nation rejected your ideas. the polish nation rejected your ideas of leftism. so you have lost seven times. mr biedroń, i would confirm you have lost – polish society rejected you seven times. to let you know, poland is number one with unemployment, poland is number three with management for women and poland is number one – that’s eurostat: your data, not ours – as the safest place in europe. so before you judge us, before you point the finger at us, maybe you should think about sweden and the rapes of women by illegal migrants. maybe you should focus on germany, which is number one for all these crimes coming over from illegal migrants, instead of poland. this is real, this is real democracy and this is not our data, it is eurostat’s.
member of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have followed this debate with great interest, as one of the very few in the house, from beginning to end, and i have listened very carefully to each and every one of them. and it's only reinforced my belief in the importance of developing solid policies that ensure that the first cases we handle are eventually successful cases. because that should be our common goal. i have heard many examples here, and i will tell you quite frankly that i have very serious doubts about some of them falling within the scope of this rule of law mechanism. yes, each of us has our own personal feelings. but it is also about being objective, clear, beyond all suspicion, so to speak, about using this instrument, and that it is ultimately successful. and i am very much against the remarks of those in this house who have said that we have been inactive or that we are inactive as a commission. the opposite is true. we are analysing, we are preparing very precisely and we are not deterred by the fact that there are legal challenges to the european court of justice - yes or no - but we are looking very closely at how this directive can be successfully implemented. i've had my staff look into things. we have heard a lot about poland and hungary today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in the member states. we must look at this very carefully so that at the end of the day it is also a successful measure and not something that can be successfully challenged by the other side in the european court of justice at the very beginning of the activities. and we must also, ladies and gentlemen, say goodbye to the idea that this instrument is a panacea, a general-purpose weapon against everything that can be perceived as a violation of the rule of law here and there. it is clearly an instrument linked to whether the use of european taxpayers' money is affected by a lack of rule of law. and so it's very important that we all do our homework together. and as soon as we have the designs here, we'll of course share them with the house and get your input. but i would ask you again to understand that the application of this provision must be carefully prepared, because the text of the law is one thing, what can fall under it is another. and this must be prepared carefully and carefully, as i said, to ensure that the first such measures will also be marked by success. i would also like to appeal to all those who think that there is a different understanding of the rule of law because of national identities. there is no rule of law tailored to national identities. there is a common understanding of the rule of law, which is also reflected in the european instruments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and again, the clear statement, the clear indication - i'm sorry, because it's actually redundant - of course the law has been in force since january 1 and has to be applied since january 1. but we want to implement it in such a way that at the end of the day it is a success for all those who have a great interest here in this house and not just here in this house, that the state of the rule of law in europe as a whole, at least within the european union, is improved.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the financial conditionality regulation has entered into force and should apply from 1 january 2021. the political conclusions of the european council adopted at its summit in brussels on 11 december 2020 cannot in any way alter this. the imposition by the leaders of the member states of certain european commission procedures violates the treaty principle of institutional balance and the independence of the commission, which is prohibited from taking instructions from governments and is accountable only to parliament. i am convinced that the commission as guardian of the treaties should immediately start applying the conditionality mechanism to protect the eu budget from irregularities resulting from the failure to respect the rule of law in the member states. any unjustified failure by the commission to act in this respect should result in a strong reaction from the ep, which may not only complain to the court of justice about the commission's inaction but also ultimately face a vote of no confidence in the college. the challenge to the conditionality mechanism by poland and hungary to the cjeu should be in line with parliament's wish for the case to be dealt with under an accelerated procedure. i also believe that this should be an opportunity to define the position of the european council within the eu's institutional framework, and in particular its relationship with the commission, which is often treated by the leaders of the member states only as the executor of orders (conclusions), while the parliament is the notary of established decisions.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on respecting the principle of partnership in the preparation and implementation of national recovery and resilience plans and ensuring sound management of expenditure (2021/2583 ((rsp)).
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the situation in the eastern democratic republic of the congo and the assassination of the italian ambassador luca attanasia and his entourage (2021/2577 (rsp)) *. look at the minutes of the meeting.
madam president! i would like to express my deepest condolences to the families of the victims of the attack on the world food programme humanitarian convoy in congo, in which italian ambassador luca attanasio was killed. an italian policeman and a local driver were killed along with him. the tragic deaths were the result of people who were doing their jobs with full knowledge of the risks they were taking. "being an ambassador is often a dangerous mission, but it is our duty to set an example", said ambassador attanasio when he and his wife received the award for humanitarian aid last year. and then: "you can't be blind to the suffering of children. we must act to ensure a better tomorrow for them. we're changing the world as much as we can. so you were a very special ambassador. we have suffered a great loss. it was an attack not only on the italian diplomatic corps, but on the free world. italy has asked the un, which organised the ambassador's trip, to launch an investigation into the arrangements for the delegation's safety, the way the convoy is secured and the people responsible for the decisions. we call on the un and the congolese authorities to cooperate fully with the italian investigation and on the european commission to support these efforts.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. in february this year, the eu and bahrain signed a cooperation agreement to enhance political dialogue and cooperation in trade, research and innovation. meanwhile, the human rights situation in bahrain remains fragile. freedom house, a us government-funded non-profit ngo, describes bahrain as one of the most repressive countries in the middle east, which has systematically curtailed political rights and civil liberties since the 2011 uprisings during the so-called arab spring, when the regime brutally suppressed protests. there are reports of torture of prisoners of conscience, denial of medical care, and religious discrimination against shia prisoners in bahrain. between 2011 and 2020, around 50 people were sentenced to death there. no wonder the lack of interest of the authorities in solving economic and political problems is a decline of decades. and bahrain is not the only example of violent confrontation between the rulers and the ruled in the middle east. but is the west's attempt to influence the reality of the arab world the right direction? after all, after ten years, you can say that the arab spring was also a defeat for the west.
the author. - madam president! - i have to go. since 2017, when the cambodian regime, with the help of the supreme court, outlawed the largest opposition party, repression against political activists has intensified in cambodia. due to political persecution, many opposition leaders had to emigrate. according to the un, more than 150 opposition supporters have been arrested in cambodia since 2019 on baseless treason charges. a former opposition leader has been sentenced in absentia to 25 years in prison. last month, the government of hun sen, a former khmer rouge leader who has ruled cambodia for 36 years, decided to create a so-called national gateway. it's supposed to be the one that's going through all the internet traffic. the opposition believes that the government wants to build a digital equivalent of the so-called great wall in china, which will lead to suppression of freedom of speech, restrict access to information and be used to spy on citizens. is the european commission taking action in this area? does the commission provide support to civil society organisations in cambodia? will the european union and the western world react when they tolerate similar actions at home, but not from governments anymore, but from international big tech corporations?
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in poland, the law and justice government is implementing an agricultural programme 'strong agriculture, healthy food, modern countryside'. the programme also includes a long-term vision for rural areas. poland's rural development policy comprises four development pillars. firstly, the profitability of agricultural production; secondly, the quality of life and the environment in rural areas; thirdly, non-agricultural jobs and an active society; and finally, efficient administration. the threats to polish rural development include the european union's continued discrimination against polish farmers in terms of subsidies, article 18 of the treaty and the introduction of european green deal solutions without providing adequate funding. members of the house, i propose that we end the false accusations of poland discriminating against lgbt people. take care of the real discrimination against polish farmers.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in november last year, at the geneva conference on afghanistan, the european commission committed to providing more than €1 billion in support to afghanistan between 2021 and 2025. it is worth noting that the aid declared is to be reduced by 15% compared to the declarations made at the previous summit of this type and is more conditional than in the past. the reduction can be considered a small one and therefore a success for afghanistan, and its conditionality as a guarantee of the possibility for donors to withdraw from their commitments. it is important to stress that both the country and its people deserve this support, especially since, despite the fact that internal peace negotiations have already begun, afghanistan is still at a crossroads. the aid will be used to implement development programmes, and it's hard to disagree with that. however, it should be noted that the commission failed to comply with its procedural obligations, as the decision was taken without consulting the european parliament. information on international commitments ensures that parliament, as the budgetary authority, can make full use of its prerogatives and failure to do so is unacceptable.
in writing. vaccination certificates for people who have been vaccinated against coronavirus are an important step in the fight against current and potential health threats facing the world. the european commission's proposal in this area will undoubtedly facilitate the safe movement of citizens within and beyond the european union. the green digital certificate is also a hope to unfreeze many of the sectors of the economy that have been most affected by the lockdown. however, we must not forget that the successful implementation of this solution must be conditional on a high level of protection of personal data, transparency of the system and non-discrimination of citizens of those countries where the level of implementation of the vaccination programme is lower than in other member states. the so-called green certificates should facilitate travel under the conditions of the remaining restrictions and not lead to further restrictions. from the public's point of view, an effective information campaign on the commission's actions to implement new solutions will be necessary to protect citizens from misinformation and false information.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. first of all, it is the member states that decide on new own resources for the eu and, by treaty, the union has no direct powers when it comes to taxation. so at the moment, the famous gnp contribution is indeed the main source of funding, but since the council wants to provide the necessary alternative own resources in the context of the much-needed corona recovery fund, we must indeed look for it. if there is an intelligent way of doing this, we support it. but my delegation remains of the view that in the present context there can be no question of introducing specific european taxes. a debate on revenue and the need for it is intrinsically linked to the expenditure the union is making. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but that is a debate which i have unfortunately not heard much of here in parliament, if ever. so it is a question of quality and efficiency. it is not a question of creating new institutions every time something happens. more performance, less red tape. i have heard in closed meetings that the main quality of new own resources is their invisibility, but that is of course not really a relevant quality.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, in order to be able to implement the european recovery fund, we need to implement the increase in own resources that we have agreed. the european parliament has done its job, but not all the member states. only 13 of the 27 have ratified the agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be able to accept it. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of chemical pollution caused by certain dangerous substances. it is not possible for gafam not to pay taxes.
mr president, commissioner, public opinion heard nine months ago that europe was putting in place a massive and unprecedented €750 billion recovery plan. we know that this money does not fall from the sky and the procedure for activating it is inevitably complex. moreover, not a single euro will be paid until all national parliaments have approved this recovery plan, and only 13 member states have done so at this stage. but i want to make it clear: if, a year after the announcements of last july, the people of europe do not see anything coming by the summer, it will be the image of europe that will be damaged. we must be careful not to repeat the bad scenario of the european vaccine order with the recovery plan, i.e. strong announcements at the time and very big disappointment in implementation. i therefore propose, in concrete terms, that the european commission should shorten the validation periods so that before the summer the money promised is already partially paid to the states and, through them, to the businesses and citizens who need it most. if the brussels pipeline were to prove too long and too heavy, it would unfortunately be another stab in the back of the very beautiful project that is europe.
mr president, three long months have passed since the council adopted the decision on own resources, and yet more than half of the national parliaments have yet to vote on this matter. i would remind you that this funding will make it possible to repay the recovery plans and thus to launch the ecological and digital transformation of our economy. the three reports we are adopting today will enable this transformation to be implemented immediately. the key words are to move fast and be efficient, especially in these times of crisis. we are deciding our common future, our common resources, our common debt, and we are doing it in a fragmented way. we have to change our method. the negotiations on the european budget have proved one thing: unanimous decision-making in the council is a brake on europe and a slowing down of its action. we must also overcome the delays in the 27 national ratification processes. the conference on the future of europe will be a key step in overcoming these obstacles. the credibility of our action depends on its timeliness. it is now urgent that the national parliaments assume all the responsibilities and adopt the decision on own resources as soon as possible. but we must also adapt, learn from these passages, transform the union and move beyond national vetoes and ratification in the future. yes, we must become more ambitious, more efficient and more determined towards the future. let us act, colleagues!
mr president, today, almost 80% of our eu budget comes from member states, and that’s a problem, because member states always expect a maximum outcome but they also want to minimise their own contributions. and at the same time we need to finance the economic recovery and green transition, but where then should the money come from? i think it’s high time that the tech giants, the tax dodgers and the big polluters finally pay their fair share. the tax on non-recycled plastics is one example to ensure our own income. putting a tax on virgin plastics would be an even bigger incentive to reduce plastic waste and single-use plastics. so my message is clear: let’s make sure that these new own resources actively fund the green transition, because that, colleagues, is a win-win for us all.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the current system of own resources, based on a contribution to each member state's gross national income, is simple, transparent and fair, although the existing rebate system is disruptive. we are ready to discuss new proposals on own resources, but first of all it should be revenue from taxes on financial institutions or large corporations which, taking advantage of the single market, make a lot of money here, but pay little or no tax. unfortunately, the european commission has proposed solutions such as a tax on unprocessed plastics or the takeover of the system of revenue from the sale of co2 emission rights. it's an unfair system, because it's taxing the less wealthy countries and exempting the more wealthy countries. in my country, poland, the gni-based system is 3.5% of revenue, while the plastic tax is 6%, and the co2 tax is 11%... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, time is often an ally, but it can also become an enemy. too many member states are now taking their time to ratify the own resources provisions and thus slow down the implementation of the european recovery plan when it should be accelerated. we urge them to do so without delay and we cannot find ourselves in a situation where the united states is committed to implementing its $1.9 trillion while europe is waiting and standing still. the impact of the covid crisis, as you know, is immense, and you know that the european union is being severely judged. the vaccine fiasco and the delay in vaccination must not be compounded by the delay in the re-launch of our economies. all these delays now put the very future of the union at risk. so it's all about now.
mr president, the union had only one option to combat the current crisis if we did not want to fall into a downward spiral with unpredictable social consequences: to create a recovery fund. and we had only one option to finance it: to allow the commission to borrow massively from the financial markets. but to pay off that debt, we have three options. first, to increase the contributions of the states to the community budget; this would only increase the comparative tax rate between the contributing and the receiving countries. secondly, to reduce the funding of the commission's regular programmes: less europe, which is unacceptable. the third option is to build a genuine system of own resources, to give the european institutions real fiscal autonomy. that's the answer, of course. the tax on plastic waste and the simplification of the community vat system are a first step in this direction, but they are by no means sufficient. the border carbon adjustment mechanisms and the digital tax are due to be ready by 1 january 2023, but this is not enough either. the financial transaction tax must also be encouraged because only a sound system of own resources can guarantee the continuity of the european project.
mr president, the road to new own resources has been a difficult one. how many reports of the european parliament's own initiative, how many papers of reflection have it taken to get to this point, not to mention the injunctions of personalities involved in european construction, such as mr mario monti, for example. however, it was the pandemic that triggered the introduction of new resources to something so unfortunate is good. without the pandemic and the threats it poses to our economies and the social situation of our member states, we would not be where we are. if the european parliament does so by majority vote, it is because of conviction, but some member states ultimately accept new own resources out of necessity. however, i would like to make a plea in the short time available to me for the principle of budgetary universality to be maintained. the aim of taxing and then allocating it to specific expenditure is contrary to the principle of budgetary universality. i do not doubt the good faith of those who say that we are going to tax plastic to allocate the proceeds of this tax to the fight against pollution. but this approach risks calling into question a very relevant expense if the plastic tax were to dry up. this is precisely what would happen if the use of plastic were to disappear.
president, it is irresponsible for the eu to borrow money on the capital market without thinking about the consequences. i'm just going to focus on the two most important ones. loans are taken out without any clear understanding of how they are repaid. the citizens will ultimately pay the price and face the risks, whether they choose to do so or not, and they have not been sufficiently informed. secondly, by lending money to member states, the eu acts as a financier and thus runs credit risk. financial institutions should hold reserves to cover credit risk at the initiative of the eu supervisor. that's not happening now, and that's an omission. ambition and resources must be balanced. money doesn't grow on trees, so we have to prioritize. it is therefore right to keep the eu's overall programme portfolio in the light and to scrap all non-essential programmes, for a minimum of eur 2 billion a year in favour of a solid budget, a buffer and redemptions.
mr president, i am strongly in favour of creating own resources to make the european union stronger for the benefit of the european citizens. i therefore warmly congratulate my dear colleague, mr jose manuel fernandez, on his excellent and hard work in this area. i am convinced that the european parliament, the european union, and all of us have a duty and a duty to express our deepest gratitude and to pay our respects to the greek people on the 200th anniversary of the great greek revolution, which succeeded in overcoming four centuries of cruel, inhuman, black turkish slavery and, above all, in paving the way for a free europe that was the beginning of the end of ottoman rule and barbarism. as a greek cypriot, i am proud of greek history, culture and our national struggles for freedom, democracy and national sovereignty. the european construction was founded on these principles and values, on greek culture, on the sacred bones of the greeks, who gave holy fights in defence of these ideals. but who could have imagined that 200 years after the turkish yoke had been lifted from greece and the whole of europe, the same yoke, the neo-ottoman yoke, would be wielded by a member state of the european union? i believe that now is the time for the european union to shoulder its responsibility to throw off this yoke of greek cypriotism. it is time for the european union's responsibility to its history, culture, principles and values to send a strong message: the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner hahn, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i am always trying to explain to my visitors here in brussels what this european budget actually does and how big it is. because most people, who are not interested in this and should not be interested in this, believe that since the eu is bigger than germany the eu budget should probably be bigger than the german budget, and are always terribly surprised when i tell them that this is not the case, but that the european budget is just twice as big as that of my home state of north rhine-westphalia. the biggest problem with this budget, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have no control over the revenue. the commission has also been active in the field of the environment. this leads to a conflict of interest with the national finance ministers. that is what makes the annual budgetary procedures so long and tiring. but now we are getting closer to the solution - the eu will get more genuine own resources. the more of these there are, the less we have to use the national budgets. this could speed up the budgetary procedures. and even more beautifully, through a common european approach we could finally put an end to those who have avoided a fair tax contribution by creative transfer of their profits.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have understood, we have repeated, how good the european union's response to the pandemic has been in terms of quantity: 1 850 billion, of which 750 billion will be specifically earmarked for the pandemic through nextgenerationeu. we saw the need to build a package of own resources to finance the new resources and we also criticized some of these resources: from the point of view of some industrial countries, the choice of a plastic tax is a contradiction in terms, because it asks our companies to pay for that recovery fund, that nextgenerationeu that is used to revive it. but the weird thing is the division between countries: 14 countries have not yet ratified the own resources and many countries do not spend all the resources they receive. well, this is a union that has to grow, that has to stop not dreaming, stop controlling itself, looking at its navel. let's see if the pandemic will also teach us this new perspective on our future.
member of the commission. – mr president, rapporteurs, i really appreciate that you have followed the debate from the very beginning until the end. and more in general, i really sincerely welcome parliament’s broad commitment to uphold the integrity of the own resources system. this needs to remain, it is a defining feature when we diversify the sources of revenue in order to rise to the challenge of financing the unprecedented solidarity effort agreed last year. as established in the interinstitutional agreement signed by the three institutions in november, the commission will also propose new own resources in june 2021 with a view to their introduction in 2023. as of today, they will be based on the emissions trading system, on the carbon border adjustment mechanism and on a digital levy. work on the legislative proposals is ongoing. each of the proposals is justified on its own merit as the impact assessment will convincingly argue in a few months when the sectoral legislation is published. the new own resources will be particularly important when the repayment needs on the next generation eu are due. with the higher public debt due to the support for the economy in crisis times, new own resources can bring relief to national budgets while avoiding future cuts to eu programmes. we also stand by our other commitment, made last year, to deliver a second batch of proposals for new own resources by june 2024. they will also be closely aligned with the union’s priorities and aim at further mitigating the contribution of national budgets to the repayment of ngeu borrowing. the overall idea is to have, over time, a balanced basket of resources able to ensure sufficient streams of revenues for the next decades while reducing the weight on the public finances of all member states.
the joint debate is closed. the vote on the recommendation on the european union's own resources system will take place today, wednesday 24 march 2021. the reports on own resources based on non-recycled plastic packaging waste, as well as on certain aspects of gni own resources and on the collection of vat own resources, will be the subject of votes on amendments today, wednesday 24 march 2021, and the closing votes on thursday 25 march 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. contrary to what one of the famous european bands of the 1990s believes, life in plastic is not fantastic. but it is not just about creating another eu measure or taking a step forward in the fight against climate pollution. the 80 euro cents per kilogram of non-recyclable plastic packaging is the first of the so-called green taxes, which will help the eu to become a real fiscal actor, increasing its economic and political importance also on the international stage. but this is only the first step in a responsible approach to the debt caused by the nextgeneration eu. the border tax or the digital tax as the union's own resources are the next steps. however, if the commission notices opposition from less ambitious member states, this parliament is only waiting for article 116 tfeu to apply.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the ecr says that the budget must address real priorities, but in eastern europe, for example, we have huge decarbonisation problems that the poorest countries in the european union will pay for. we cannot therefore blindly support the acceleration of the eu ets emissions trading scheme. we note that the introduction of climate legislation is without a real financial impact assessment, so it will be difficult for us to support this budget for 2022 in this respect. we do not think that the increase in the budget for the european public prosecutor's office is the first necessity, because we see that the role of olaf, the national prosecutor and the european public prosecutor's office is being duplicated. we appreciate the importance of the concept of the rule of law, but it is essential to keep in mind the conclusions of 2021, to prepare guidelines for the application of the rule of law and to emphasise that the competences not delegated to the european union are simply national competences. we'll take care of it and keep it safe. i would like to say briefly that in the european union, those who have big, important ideas sometimes have big, particular interests of their own, and that is a pity. so let's be more supportive, and then we'll be more appreciated!
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. i am not going to go into detail. i will start with the rapporteur: words of fiery speeches and slogans do not change reality. to take care of what every european, every human being cares about - clean air - you need a plan, you need to be based on facts and research and you need to have money. the commissioner will admit, as the environment agency does, that europe is changing, that reality is changing, that the attitudes of citizens are changing, that we are changing transport, that we are implementing very expensive, complicated procedures, systems which are supposed to lead to cleaner air everywhere in europe. but any citizen, if he looks at the report, if he refers to these words, will ask questions, as i ask these questions. first of all, i don't know if you've noticed, even those who spoke before me, that we have a global celebration of lockdown. tell that to your citizens who are waiting to get out of their homes, to meet their friends, to not fear for their health and their lives. you say, "stay in your homes, you don't have to go out". what the lockdown has shown, what the pandemic has shown, we should translate into everyday life. let's just keep in touch with our friends online. that's the first one. and the first question is to the citizens of europe, who will be affected by any legislation. second, what does "15-minute cities" mean? show me a town over 20,000 where you can do a 15-minute shopping spree at this distance. please don't say 400 grand, because it's not true. it's just an algorithm. look at the metrics, look at the research. this is just statistics, not evidence. at the same time, you're talking about a change in the metrics. compare the eu and the who. sometimes they're many times higher. will we then be satisfied that instead of 20 cases we will have 150 before the court of justice? i don't think we have enough officials to handle this, and we're not going to get anywhere. let's be smart about this.
madam president, pollution kills 450,000 people in the european union every year, costs us billions of euros in health care. that's enough! clearly, we need to improve the implementation of the air quality directives. from a transport perspective, i have proposed in this report three solutions to reduce pollution. first, let's update the air quality standards, which are 15 years old and well below the world health organization recommendations. we always say that the european union is a leader in the fight for a clean environment. let's prove it to them! secondly, to rethink the commission's cooperation with national, regional and local authorities. the implementation gap is alarming: there is no standardised monitoring and underreporting is systematic. a network of pollution sensors is also missing. the authorities need european funds and expertise, and the commission needs to step in. and thirdly, urban mobility plans. the european union must help cities to have sustainable public transport, safe cycling infrastructure, electric charging stations and reduce the share of second-hand cars.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we're all for clean air. as an epp, we rely on technical solutions, local solutions and innovation. the ban is not our first choice of policy options. successful local projects should be a model for europe. we urgently need comparability of measurement sites and measurement methods. i was irritated by paragraph 58 of this own-initiative report. information and participation calls for a special role for civil society organisations, environmental activists and investigative journalists. we can't be serious about this! we're trying to pass laws here, and the enforcement, monitoring and control is supposed to be done by environmentalists and investigative journalists? that is the proper function of the state! there are some things you can't delegate. by the way, what about ordinary journalists, why are they discriminated against? there's a special role for these so-called investigative journalists. let us put an end to this nonsense together, scientifically, objectively, on the basis of impact assessments. only then will we succeed in improving air quality.
i have to say, madam president, imagine the air on the first frosty winter day or the smell of the green forest floor after a rainstorm or the smog-filled air of a busy city. air is important for our quality of life, but it is also important for our life expectancy. air pollution causes more than 400 000 premature deaths in europe each year, while air quality also affects the environment and biodiversity. the more pollution, the less biodiversity. we're gonna have to do something about this. and air pollution is not an isolated problem. greenhouse gas emissions and particulate matter emissions are often linked and can be traced back to the same source. we must do something, and we are proposing that in this report. we must, we say in the european parliament, we must get better at measuring emissions in europe so that we can intervene when the limit values are exceeded. and we need to update our limits to align with the who, of course. and then we must also ensure that we get stricter standards for emissions, for example in relation to the car industry. we need to improve our air quality. but if we do, we will not only improve the health of millions of europeans, we will also improve our environment and secure the foundations for a much greater biodiversity. we must do this, but when we do it we must do it together, because then it will have a real impact on the environment and on citizens throughout europe. together, we can improve our air quality. let's just get on with it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are figures which cannot be disputed, such as the 400 000 premature deaths caused by the bad air we breathe. in the face of these chilling figures, i wonder how some political parties can oppose the sacrosanct and more than legitimate demand to update the old air quality standards, now totally outdated, and to align them with the who guidelines. if it is true, as it is true, that air pollution is the main environmental threat to human health and that, according to the european environment agency, three quarters of the european urban population breathe harmful air, i can only express disbelief and indignation at this political myopia. the report we are about to vote on calls for the inclusion of other air pollutants to be monitored and reduced, such as mercury, black carbon, ultrafine particulate matter, microplastics and ammonia - the latter emitted mainly by intensive farming, which the cap will continue to finance with public money. we need to stop this and accelerate a radical change of course to protect our citizens' health, stop the climate crisis and produce healthy food.
madam president, commissioner sinkevičius, poor air quality is the number one problem, the number one health risk in the european union and worldwide. with today's implementation report, we are trying to identify common methodology and monitoring to arrive at common air quality criteria in the european union. harmonization and supervision are essential. the problems of air quality, especially in my city of thessaloniki, and in the western sector, persist and require immediate response with publicly funded projects, with immediate adaptation and cooperation of the private sector. we need transparency on private sector emissions data to build a relationship of trust between monitoring agencies, citizens, the private sector and the state. at the same time, my country, greece, is one of the member states facing compliance issues with european legislation on air quality. i therefore believe that the criteria should be in line with the world health organisation's standards. i think that at this stage we cannot make any concessions and i shall therefore vote in favour of the report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. every morning for about a year now, we've been woken up by the latest coronavirus numbers and developments on the radio. every plus is a plus. today i want to bring you positive numbers on another topic: our air. since 1990, our air quality in europe has been improving steadily: 90% for sulphur oxides, 60% for methane, 55% for nitrogen oxides, 50% for particulate matter. but of course, good isn't good enough. how can we get even better air? i think we have to set three priorities. first, measure where people are. the report calls for what i have been calling for for a long time: representative measurements, support from passive collectors and a record of the burden on the population as a whole. secondly, targeted, proportionate and local measures. only the local actors can decide which measures are most helpful and proportionate. thirdly, the promotion of all technical solutions - this has been emphasized on several occasions. we have better air despite growing economic output. this clearly shows that technical solutions are the key to success. the commission has already made a number of proposals. implementation is more important than a discussion of limits, because one does not work without the other. we want to make individual mobility possible in cities, preferably with modern, low-emission engines. the who, by the way, is explicitly recommending - as my colleagues have already said - that the limit values should not be applied one-to-one. they are recommendations, and that is why this is also a scientific approach, if you do not simply adopt it.
member of the commission. – madam president, i wish to thank the honourable members for once again putting clean air on the agenda. it is one of the most important environmental and health challenges of our times. our citizens expect us to address and solve this and ensure that the air they breathe everyday is of good quality, with no risk of harm. clean air cannot be a luxury, it has to be a right for all, and especially for the most vulnerable. thank you for recalling the various challenges involved. i can assure you that our ambition to protect the health of citizens will not be limited by the failures of the past. we can do better, and we can do it with concerted action across sectors and across policies, with everyone on board: policymakers, local authorities, citizens, businesses, entrepreneurs, scientists and researchers. let me now briefly address some of the points you raised in today’s debate. on the level of ambition of targets, efforts to implement the current targets are still needed. however, it is also clear that we need to better address the specific pollutants of concern, with more ambition. these considerations will be at the core of the impact assessment that will underpin the revision of eu air quality standards to align them more closely with who recommendations. on the alignment with who recommendations, let me reiterate that before we propose any legislative change, we will conduct a proper impact assessment which will also look at the feasibility of different scenarios, of aligning more closely to who recommendations. in this context we will also consider including in the directives an explicit mechanism for adjusting air quality standards to technical and scientific progress. on transport, in our sustainable and smart mobility strategy from last december, we set concrete milestones for the deployment of zero—emission vehicles by 2030, when we will have at least 30 million zero—emission cars and 80 000 zero—emission lorries in operation. by 2050, nearly all cars, vans and buses, as well as new heavy duty vehicles, will be zero emission, and we will propose in june’s fit for 55 package more stringent co2 emission standards for cars and vans to ensure a clear pathway towards zero—emission mobility. on funding, member states have already successfully used eu funding under different programmes to address the air quality challenge. in the current programming period, eur 1.8 billion has been directly allocated to support air quality measures. for the 2021–2027 period, the commission has proposed, within the cohesion policy fund, a greener and low—carbon europe. one of the policy objectives includes reducing air pollution as a specific objective. it is now, of course, for member states to prioritise objectives. on air quality monitoring, we are well aware of the need for reliable, objective and comparable information on air quality to inform our decisions. most of what we need is already in place. based on common criteria defined by the ambient air quality directive, we have an air quality monitoring network with more than 4 000 monitoring stations across the eu. the extensive network can be considered a success in itself, but we will of course continue to improve and remediate specific shortcomings where identified to ensure that it continues to supply the solid framework our policy requires. dear president, honourable members, air quality legislation is extremely important, but it will never be enough to solve the clean air challenge. we need to better mainstream air quality objectives as well. whenever we deal with transport, energy, industry, agriculture or urban development at whatever our level of policy—making responsibility, we have to learn to ask ourselves a key question – what does action in this sector mean for clean air? what can we do better? with this, let me conclude by thanking the rapporteur, mr lopez, and all members, for today’s exchange and for their work on this important file.
in writing. poor air quality is a serious problem not only in many eu member states but also worldwide. this is especially true in cities and agglomerations, where many different types of human activity are concentrated. they are associated with negative environmental and human health impacts, resulting in increased morbidity and mortality. in poland, the predominant source of poor air quality is residential building heating systems, but also transport emissions in some areas of the country, especially in large cities. the polish government supports local government administration, which has the best understanding of local socio-economic and environmental conditions. for this reason, it is responsible for managing air quality in its area by, inter alia, preparing and implementing the most important instruments for improving air quality (i.e. air protection programmes, short-term action plans, anti-smog resolutions). it is encouraging to see a continuing trend towards improving air quality in poland, as a result of the consistent actions of the polish authorities taking into account the long, medium and short term perspective. further actions planned by the polish government, such as the 'clean air' strategic project implemented under the responsible development strategy and the priority programmes implemented by the national environmental and water fund (e.g. 'clean air' and 'my stream'), are expected to accelerate this trend.
in writing. ensuring improved air quality for eu citizens is underlined in the european green deal, through the union's commitment to act to reduce air pollution from major emission-generating sectors and to address the interconnected challenges of air pollution by adopting an action plan to reduce pollution to zero. eu air quality directives have been effective in setting common eu air quality standards and facilitating the collection and exchange of air quality information, but have failed to reduce air pollution and its negative effects. in this context, and taking into account the lessons learned from the covid-19 pandemic, i call on the commission to develop new air pollution policies and on member states to prioritise tackling air pollution in their national recovery plans in order to guarantee the health of citizens and increase resilience to future threats. i congratulate the rapporteur!
in writing. more than 80% of emissions of the pungent gas ammonia are directly related to the operation of the livestock sector. these emissions have a direct impact on both the health and the quality of life of people whose homes are located near industrial livestock farms, because they are the ones who live in the clothes emitted by the farms every day. a few weeks ago i started the 'free from farms' programme, where, in addition to meeting experts in various fields, i also meet with people in villages where large farms exist or are planned, and they tell me their often dramatic stories. it also regularly receives spontaneous requests for help from helpless citizens. so far, the commission and parliament have not been impressed by the environmental, climate and animal-law arguments for moving away from industrial farms. will it be affected by the daily struggles of its citizens, their stories and their harrowing experiences?
in writing. air pollution is the biggest environmental health risk in europe, affecting regions, socioeconomic groups and age groups in different ways and causing more than 400 000 premature deaths per year, according to the latest eea estimates. air pollution also causes respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, strokes, and cancer, and recent studies have also pointed to harmful effects on fertility, pregnancy, and newborns. urban dwellers are the most affected by air pollution, and only one in ten people live in a city that meets who air quality guidelines. as much as 75% of the eu population now lives in cities or suburbs. air pollution has enormous human and economic costs, including shortening life expectancy, increasing healthcare costs, reducing productivity, and degrading ecosystems. clear trends in reducing air pollution are particularly evident when policies are implemented in combination, and the commission should therefore work closely with national authorities in this regard. citizens need to be informed and made aware, which will enable them to participate directly in air quality measures. but above all, the eu must significantly subsidize the purchase of low-emission heating sources by home and apartment owners.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – madam president, travelling across africa, i realised how much trust africans placed in the eu. we have to face this challenge, remain strategically engaged with african people, with the continent, trying to improve a dire situation, even exacerbated recently by covid-19. by this report, surely not ideal, we pledge – over political divisions – to remain there providing assistance and cooperation on the ground, understanding that our engagement is much better, much more constructive than any activity of our rivals or even opponents – russia and china are trying to broaden their sphere of influence on the continent. i would like to thank the rapporteur for taking on so many of the afet committee’s remarks in the report.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. a partnership on an equal footing - that is what we want to achieve in the relationship between africa and the european union. now, what makes such a partnership on equal footing, what does it take? first, when the need is greatest, partners must be there. that means we need a global vaccination campaign now, as antonio guterres has called for at the united nations. we need them now, today, tomorrow, in the next few months, not in a year or two. this is an urgent matter and i thank commissioner urpilainen because i know how committed she is to this matter. but we have to get faster, and we have to get even more effective. the greatest poison in our societies is the growing inequality worldwide. this will be exacerbated by corona, and that is why the fight against inequality must be the benchmark of our policy initiatives. it is the key to achieving the sustainability goals of the united nations' 2030 agenda. and that's why we need to make measurable what we're doing here. it's the key to the future. parliament will have an important role to play in assessing whether we are really reaching the bottom 40 per cent of our partner countries, whether we are educating girls, whether we are educating young women who will be the future of their societies.
member of the commission. – madam president, i’m delighted to attend today’s debate. i want to thank the committee on development, and in particular the rapporteur chrysoula zacharopoulou, for the commitment in preparing this excellent report and for the continuous cooperation. just over a year ago we jointly presented, together with the high representative, our proposal for a new strategy with africa, with the intention to get a joined-up approach and a renewed partnership with our sister continent africa. and two days later the covid-19 outbreak was declared as a global pandemic. the commission, together with the member states and the eib and the ebrd acting as team europe, has led the charge on the global covid response and vaccine solidarity, including in africa. a sizable portion of the almost eur 14 billion mobilised in support to partner countries has being going to africa. and covax vaccine deliveries are now happening across the continent. we also continue to support health- system strengthening and country vaccination strategies. and we are exploring how to build up manufacturing and production capacity in africa in the context of our budget for external action. so much has happened during this exceptional year. it made our renewed partnership all the more crucial. the crisis revealed the urgency of the five pillars of this strategy and the need to streamline human development across the partnership. and this brings me to my second point. over the past year, the eu has continued to reach out to its african partners, including several visits to addis ababa. and i consulted different actors to ensure views are taken on board in the process leading up to the sixth african union-european union summit, starting with the european parliament. so i could not be happier to see the numerous points of convergence between your report and the joint communication. the priorities outlined in our joint communication and in this report should help us spearhead a sustainable and inclusive global recovery linking the sustainable development goals to investment and depth relief. these areas can be win-win opportunities for africa and europe that benefit both people and planet. we can tackle climate change and environmental degradation, reverse biodiversity loss and ensure food security, while at the same time focusing on job creation, human development and a comprehensive approach to migration. likewise, when it comes to digitalisation, if we bridge the digital divide in africa, there is a huge potential for fostering inclusion. in doing so we must continue to promote democracy, human rights, good governance and peace and security as prerequisites for sustainable development. as my last point, let me praise your report’s endorsement of our shared vision for supporting women and youth. i’m grateful to see your reference to the new ambitious gender action plan, which will promote participation of women and girls in all aspects of the covid-19 recovery. likewise, answering the growing demand of africa’s young and dynamic workforce by investing in education, training and skills is critical in a post—pandemic world. and i have notably decided to increase funding for education from 7% to at least 10% of our budget. but we need to engage with youth in africa to guide us in the process. this is one of my personal priorities and i’m happy to announce that i have launched a youth sounding-board and i will be nominating a special envoy on youth. so in conclusion let me thank you once more for this report, and i very much look forward to this debate.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. madam president, if the european union really wants to be a global player, its first challenge is to look straight at africa, its nearest, most inexorable and most gigantic neighbour. first, because of its demographic revolution: in the last fifty years it has doubled its population to 1.3 billion, but it will double again in the next thirty years. and that is why the european union must be the first in the world to assert its weight in humanitarian aid and development cooperation. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has contributed a resolution on this new long-term strategy european union-africa. firstly, the rights and protection of the opposition against persecution; the fight against corruption, against gender violence, for equality, against sexual violence and the exploitation of minors; but also governance, security, peace, health and the fight against the pandemic. and finally, migration. of course, because we must encourage legal and safe routes: humanitarian corridors, humanitarian visas, discourage illicit trafficking and, of course, combat the loss of life at sea on that atlantic route which passes through the canary islands from africa to the european union, which unfortunately takes the lives of so many minors, something which must be lamented as a tragedy, as has happened in recent days. my condolences to the family who lost little nabody in the canaries. it is a message that appeals to the conscience of the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to thank the commissioner for his work and for his contribution to the debate on the future of the european union. i'd like to acknowledge that. i would like to thank my colleague, mr zacharopoulou, who, as rapporteur, has worked to achieve consensus between the groups on the draft resolution before us. cooperation within the african union should be based on mutual respect. we must stop lecturing our african partners. local specificities and sensitivities should be taken into account when eu policy is being developed. the design that we have before us rightly highlights the importance of education, the importance of religious partnerships, of churches, and the importance of security. i believe that we need to help address the economic challenges facing africa locally, and the only effective way to do that is to build a foundation of quality education, as well as job creation and economic recovery. but without security, there is no progress. the fight against terrorism and security cooperation must therefore be given priority in the partnership. the weakness of the draft resolution is that it does not, in my view, take sufficient account of local specificities. it is not well defined, conveys anti-life messages on sexual rights and refers to migration compacts that are not supported by many countries. let us do everything we can to ensure that africa's most precious resource, its youth, finds its future at home, in its own country, on its own continent.
the european union and the african union both set out to pursue a fair and multilateral globalisation and this report reinforces this view and positions the european parliament as a key player in defining the partnership between equals to be established at the eu-africa summit. europe and africa must free themselves from the donor-recipient relationship, creating conditions for the two continents to cooperate not only as equals in will and sovereignty but also in the objective conditions of capacity and qualification. this design reflects the partnerships that structure strategy, partnerships for green tradition and access to energy, for digital transformation, for sustainable employment growth, for peace and governance and for migration and mobility, but it also reflects the principle that political and economic relations should be based on equality, on shared values with respect for the rule of law, democracy, human rights and a genuine desire to build lasting relations that benefit both africa and the european union. i congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on the results of a work in which i have been actively involved on behalf of the socialists and democrats. the broad commitment we have reached in this report sets out a path of decency and dignity in international relations, a path of decency and dignity for a multilateral and equal partnership and for a better future for the african and european peoples.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i thank the rapporteur very much for the enormous amount of work she has done, and i thank the commissioner very much. europe is showing today that it is a true ally of africa. i think this is the right moment to try to balance our commitment to this region and also to point out the directions and possibilities for change, and they are absolutely right. they justify the need for so-called aid on the ground, and all the things that the report focuses on, social development, improving the digital transformation, investment, economic growth, sustainable development, more efficient redistribution of the wealth that is generated, all of this shows that young africans, as the commissioner has often pointed out, that human capital, those young people, are the most important. this is what we should be focusing on in our work and our aid, because the union is the biggest donor. this human capital and this investment in this young human capital can only lead to one thing: that they will pursue their dreams where they were born, in their geographical breadth, and come to europe as tourists and perhaps also give here a great testimony to the greatness of this continent that is africa and this is the direction we most support. the most important challenge today is health. africa needs a lot of health care support, and this is absolutely a big challenge for us as well. i think we have the capability, covax is already showing that this is a very smart and absolutely necessary venture. the only thing i can't agree with is the ideology. reproductive health is not in our worldview, and therefore it is more important to support girls who are still suffering from things like mutilation and early marriage. that's where we should be going to limit this issue, the rest is absolutely very good.
madam president! when developing a strategy for eu-africa cooperation, the first thing to do is to define the problems we want and can solve together. if it is to be real, and not just a bunch of beautiful phrases and harmful stereotypes, we need to anchor it in reality, to relate it to the problems that africa is facing. one of the most important of these is that tourism, which has been hit particularly hard by the current crisis, leading to its total collapse, is a very important part of the economy of many african countries. the commission will continue to support the development of the tourism sector in africa, in particular through the development of the european tourism strategy. the stability of african democracies and the transparency of electoral processes are a constant focus of our work. in this context, we must first of all show more understanding of local conditions. let's not be fooled into thinking that we know better than the rest of the world what the people of africa need and how to make them happy, or that our model of liberal democracy is the only one that works. let us not underestimate the specificity of african communities and their cultures.
madam president, africa must be a priority continent for the european union: a geographical neighbour with many historical, human and economic links, but with enormous economic and demographic differences. we need to put africa at the centre of our attention with words and also with deeds. hopefully the 2021 summit will contribute to that partnership we have been talking about. it is crucial to create growth and jobs for this very large young population that we want to bring into the labour market. european investment and increased trade must contribute to the development of the continent. but development also requires security and conflict resolution. i hope that the european peace facility will help african countries to deal with major threats such as terrorism, for example, in the sahel. the report by mrs zacharopoulou rightly stresses the importance of the sahel, a region which is also of key importance for our african neighbours, the countries of the southern mediterranean.
madam president, things are slowly coming back to normal. i’m the last speaker of the night. great! while the summit between africa and the european union has had to be postponed, nevertheless dialogue must continue because we must build a close cooperative relationship with our friends in africa. this must be based on trust and shared values, and together we must tackle shared problems such as climate change and the pandemic, both of which do not recognise any borders. this makes a durable and robust economic relationship between us all the more vital. this will be particularly important for africa’s youth, as it houses one of the youngest populations in the world. efforts to reduce poverty, as well as promoting education, training and skills, will help provide a new set of opportunities for these people, and they and the world will be better for it. we have no time to waste.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all of you for your very active contributions today and your valuable support over the past year. and i have to say that i’m delighted to notice that we share the same assessment, that we have a strategy that brings concrete benefits for all our citizens and reduces inequalities. we need you by our side and we need your knowledge and also your expertise. your input, as well as stakeholders’ input in europe and africa, will feed into the african union-european union summit where heads of state and government will agree on a joined-up approach for the coming years. so this is the big plan. political outreach to african partners will continue, including the newly elected african union commission, and i would invite you to pursue this discussion at every level. because we need an open dialogue with citizens, with civil society organisations, with governments and with parliaments from africa and europe. because successfully shifting towards a modern, vibrant and comprehensive eu-africa partnership will be the result of efforts and buy-in on all sides. and this will also help the partnership with africa whenever possible in the multilateral arena. the eu and africa account for more than 40% of united nations member countries. so our collective weight is real and really can change the global course of action. there has never been a better moment for europe and africa – our sister continent – to really join forces, because we are stronger together. we all know that and i very much look forward to continuing this journey together. (applause)
this conversation is over. the vote will take place on thursday 25 march 2021. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
the relationship between the eu and african countries has been presented as a strategic priority of the eu. the so-called eu-africa strategy openly assumes the eu's intention to play a leading role on the african continent. a clear formulation of the intention to carry out a re-colonization offensive on the continent, preferably in advance of others. it wants to export 'good governance' - to impose the models of economic and political organisation which will enable its powers and economic groups to seize african resources and markets more rapidly. it seeks to impose the principles of free trade between deeply unequal parties in an instrumental way. we have africa as a huge arena of imperialist dispute, determining the increasing militarization of the continent, with the growing presence of foreign forces, and the multiplication of the foci of conflict. the reference to mozambique is paradigmatic not of a strategy of genuine cooperation, but of eu positioning and intervention according to its interests and before others. cooperation with africa is possible and desirable, but on the basis of assumptions which guarantee development, between countries with equal rights, without interference or cynical conditionality, with respect for the sovereignty of african countries and the will of their peoples.
in writing. listening to today's debate, i have the impression that we agree that africa, as our close neighbour, is important to us and requires a new relationship based on equality, respect for rights, human dignity and shared responsibility. i'm just not sure that the european public sees it that way, and i think it's going to be hard to put a lot of weight on these relationships if we're going to be talking about key issues late at night. the way we live in europe in the future depends on the condition of the countries with which we have strong economic, social and cultural links. if african countries are doing well, that is, if they are not beset by conflicts that lead to mass displacement and extreme poverty, then our security is not at risk. we started working on this strategy before the pandemic, and today, we understand better than we did then that we operate in a world of connected vessels, where the situation in one part of the world determines the situation in another part of the world. i'm glad that the strategy is being developed in partnership with africa, that we are listening to the needs of our partners and not imposing ready-made solutions. we want to strengthen our cooperation in the areas of health and the environment, migration and, above all, education. education is the key to breaking the vicious circle of poverty, to self-determination, to building strong governments based on human rights.
in writing. the new africa strategy takes into account the impact of the covid-19 pandemic that has hit the world and focuses on supporting africa's vaccination programme and maintaining the health system. with over 390 million people living below the poverty line in africa, investing in human development, which reduces inequality, is a strategic priority. the strategy highlights the importance of sustainable agriculture, education, civil society and gender equality, and stresses the continued importance of efforts to achieve the un sustainable development goals and to combat climate change. sustainable investment in local living conditions and the development of a continental free trade area is key to relations between the rest of the world and africa. therefore, both the international monetary fund and the world bank must do more to support the continent that has been hit by the pandemic. in addition, it remains important to address the root causes of migration-related resettlement.
in writing. the major challenges facing new cooperation have been exacerbated by the covid-19 pandemic, highlighting the challenges facing africa today and the urgent need for assistance and cooperation for social and economic development, more effective redistribution of generated wealth, and acceleration of the digital and ecological transformation. instead of exporting ideology, we should help in real terms. to help where there are real problems and a common interest in solving them. one such - and hugely important - issue is helping young people who have been particularly hard hit by the pandemic restrictions, limiting or even preventing access to education. caring for young africans - their education and employment opportunities - is ultimately in our interest and is the best guarantee of africa's development.
the following is a short introduction to the report by mr victor negrescu on the development of a digital education policy [2020/2135(ini) ] (a9-0042/2021).
the reporter. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, access to education, including through digital means, is a right. the pandemic has unfortunately made millions of students around the world switch almost instantly to a form of online education without being prepared for it. in some european countries, like my country, romania, almost a million children have no access to education, and unfortunately, more than a year after the start of the pandemic, the authorities still have no solution. digital education is not about giving a learner a tablet, it is about appropriate tools, methods and resources, platforms adapted to the educational process and investments in teacher training and continuing education. online education does not replace teachers, but digital tools, used properly, can help them in the teaching process. adapted measures are needed to take account of the profile of the learner and the educational act, which is why we need measures for technical education and others for special education, some for continuing education and specific measures for pre-primary education. i've spent the last year developing solutions to make digital education accessible, talking to teachers, parents and students, interacting with local authorities, social partners and ngos all over europe, and i can tell you that the situation is very serious. for the success of the digitalization of education, it is necessary that all these actors become co-creators of the transformation of education. once a child can't connect, they become a surefire victim of school dropout. a young person who has dropped out of school has no choice. the reality is that, unfortunately, we are not prepared for a new wave of pandemics that could shut down educational institutions completely. as members of the european parliament, we call for a european answer to the crisis faced by education. we need european policies in the field of digital education. building a european education area by 2025 and fully implementing the european digital education action plan represent key steps. we need to narrow the gap now, and the key is education in all policies. unfortunately, some european governments prefer to ignore european documents. this is why, in the draft working document of august last year, we started calling for a minimum allocation of 10% for education in the recovery and resilience plan. at the same time, it is important to respect the 20% earmark for the digital transformation. therefore, we believe education should be better highlighted in the european semester framework while at the same time adding an extended evaluation on digital education. i continue with a few proposals. it calls for better synergy between programmes and policies at european level, with better coordination and direct involvement of the european parliament in digital education applications. it called for the european exchange platforms to be finalised and appealed to the commission to develop a european online university. we must invest in the technical infrastructure of formal and non-formal education establishments. that's why we talk about the internet as being a universal good. it launches the european initiative for education in robotics and artificial intelligence. it supported the idea of a european certificate for digital skills and called on member states to invest more in teacher training. it discusses the risks associated with the internet and the continued use of technical means, while stressing the importance of initial digital skills and media literacy. i finished in romanian. our report offers solutions and shows what we can do together at european level. no strategy for digitizing education can be done without people. so my invitation is to involve all those who want to build a european policy on digital education.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me thank the rapporteur – the vice—chair of the committee on culture and education – victor negrescu, the shadow rapporteurs and the entire culture committee for this excellent report. the european parliament and the european commission are closely aligned in their ambition to achieve high-quality, inclusive digital education across the union. therefore, the commission warmly welcomes the support of the european parliament for the digital education action plan 2021—2027. we had a challenging year, and the crisis is not over yet. despite years of continuous work on digital education, education and training was one of the sectors most affected by the covid-19 crisis. when it comes to distance learning, member states showed different levels of preparedness and it is estimated that at least 100 million learners in europe were affected by the crisis, especially young pupils. the crisis was also the first distance-teaching experience of most teachers and educators. parents also found it difficult to find a balance between supporting their children and working from home. the lessons are clear. firstly, there is a pressing need for more comprehensive, ambitious and long—term digital policies to ensure that all necessary conditions for digital education are in place – infrastructure, equipment, strategies, online learning content and adequate teacher training and pedagogies – and that people of all ages and backgrounds have the necessary digital skills and competences to live and thrive in the digital age. secondly, there is a need to focus on implementing these policies. with the recovery ahead of us, all citizens need to be ready to take an active part in the growing digital economy and society. this is the approach the commission took when adopting the digital education action plan which is built around two priorities: the development of a high-performing digital education ecosystem and the enhancement of digital skills and competences for the digital transition. the action plan contributes to the objectives of the european education area, the skills agenda, the recently adopted european pillar of social rights action plan and the new digital decade communication. through the digital education action plan, the commission demonstrates its commitment to promoting digital education in an inclusive and lifelong-learning manner, fostering the development of digital skills and competences, including digital literacy and computer science. this extends to individuals who may already have left the formal education and training system and who may need help during the precarious school—to—work and job—to—job transition. that is also where our youth employment support comes into play, and in particular its strengthened youth guarantee, with a strong focus on helping unemployed or inactive young people reach a minimum level of digital skills. the recently adopted council recommendation on vocational education and training also puts a strong emphasis on the importance of digital provision of education and training. it foresees that vocational education and training institutions should have access to state-of-the-art infrastructure and have digitalisation strategies in place. as a first deliverable of the digital education action plan in 2021, the commission will propose a council recommendation on distance and online learning. it will outline ways in which member states could adapt their school systems to be more flexible and inclusive of a broad range of learner needs, changing circumstances and pedagogical approaches. the strategic dialogue with member states on the enabling factors for successful digital education that will be launched this year will contribute to the discussion on how to address gaps in digital education. in response to other important challenges, such as the use of artificial intelligence and data in education and the infodemic that accompanied the covid-19 pandemic, the commission has started work on ethical guidelines for teachers on artificial intelligence and data in education and training, as well as common guidelines on digital literacy and addressing disinformation. with the digital education action plan, we have clearly outlined the strategic and long—term importance of digital education for the digital transformation in europe and the need to act now. the strategic importance of digital education is further reflected in the recently adopted digital decade communication. in this communication, the commission identified a digitally skilled population, widespread high-speed connectivity and the need for an effective digital education ecosystem as part of the long-term vision for the third decade of the 21st century. the communication has digital skills as one of its four pillars and also refers to the principle of universal digital education and skills for people to take an active part in society and in democratic processes. the digital education action plan and the digital decade communication are a clear sign of the synergies and complementarity that must be ensured across digital policies. to achieve our objective, however, we need to ensure that high-quality, inclusive digital education is a shared responsibility for our whole society. this calls for targeted efforts, including investments at european, national and regional level, and the active engagement of all stakeholders, policymakers, the education and training community, civil society and of course the private sector. we also need stronger cooperation at eu level. one way to achieve this is through the digital education hub. the hub will be the interface for digital education at european level. investing in digital education is at the core of long-term, effective digital education policies. at european level, erasmus+, horizon europe, the connecting europe facility, digital europe and the cohesion fund support the creation of the digital education ecosystem and boost digital skills and competences. however, the key instrument in the short term is without any doubt the recovery and resilience facility, which is at member states’ disposal to directly address the areas where more support is needed. twenty per cent of the budget of the recovery and resilience facility is dedicated to the digital transition. it’s already encouraging that digital education and skills are supported widely in the draft recovery and resilience plans submitted by member states, and i’m delighted that parliament is calling on member states to invest even more. the commission remains committed to continue working with the parliament in the implementation of the digital education action plan and to ensure that european education and training in the digital age are built on quality and resilience, and work for all citizens.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow, 25 march 2021. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. the coronavirus pandemic has brought the issue of digitalisation and digital education into the spotlight. the transition to online distance learning was a one-off, and it presented many challenges for teachers, students and families alike. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. it is of particular importance that all educational establishments and students have access to broadband and high-speed internet, which is a prerequisite for the development of digital skills and for digital education. it is essential that pupils living in rural settlements also have access to the internet. i would like to draw attention to the fundamental importance of personal education. in order to ensure innovative and modern education, digital tools should be integrated into the educational process as much as possible. the aim of the project is to develop a european network of online learning platforms for students and teachers, and to develop a european network of online learning platforms for students and teachers. digital administration, digital communication, is helping to make education greener, more environmentally friendly. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and sound prudential supervision.
in writing. like most areas of our lives, the education sector is constantly being transformed, and digital technologies are an integral part of today's learning and education process. the draft resolution does a very good job of identifying the challenges and opportunities of digitalising education. the covid-19 pandemic has significantly changed the way education is delivered and has confirmed the importance of europe's digital transformation. online learning appears to be one of the most effective ways to continue education in crisis situations. i therefore believe that european funds should be invested in further developing the infrastructure, digital resources and tools that are free to all stakeholders, in particular students and teachers. i see a strong need for the eu to actively support reforms on the digitalisation of education in the member states and their regions. experience shows that more attention should be paid to providing support to member states to enable them to purchase equipment for schools and pupils that is necessary for the widespread use of ict in teaching and learning and in school management. the widespread use of distance learning has shown that a modern digital infrastructure is a necessity. therefore, creating the conditions for effective e-learning should also be one of the eu priorities. in this context, it is particularly important that the european commission ensures greater synergies between union programmes and instruments to support the digitalisation of education.
the next item is the report by mrs chabaud on the impact of marine litter on fisheries [2019/2160(ini) ] (a9-0030/2021).
i give the floor to commissioner sinkevičius.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to congratulate ms chabaud for this very rich and comprehensive report, which not only fully reflects the enormous global challenge of marine litter, but also offers solutions and prospects for change. i could not agree more with the findings of the report that assess the dimension of marine litter and the detrimental impact it has on marine ecosystems. while the report correctly underlines that more than 80% of marine waste stems from activities on land, we very much welcome the fact that the report covers both sea- and land-based sources of pollution. all this waste is not only a direct threat to our oceans and seas and the rich biodiversity they host, but also to the future of the fishery sectors and thus of all fishermen and women who go to sea day-by-day and provide us with healthy food from the ocean. the annual costs of marine litter to fisheries in the eu are estimated at eur 57 million. only a clean, healthy, productive and biologically diverse marine environment can provide the basis for the important work of our fishers, shellfish gatherers, aquaculture producers and ultimately satisfy the needs of consumers. when it comes to the responses to the threat from marine litter, i agree that a holistic approach is necessary. in this respect, close and constructive cooperation between the different stakeholders is key to fully ensure and exploit the synergies between the various legislations already in place. we are now in the important implementation phase of both the single-use plastics and the port reception facilities directives. both will contribute to a significant reduction of marine pollution in our seas. let me focus tonight on three key points which you also mentioned in your report. firstly, with the legislation already in place and with the additional ambitious actions foreseen in the circular economy action plan, the biodiversity strategy in the upcoming zero-pollution action plan, we are addressing many, if not most, of your recommendations. under the marine strategy framework directive we established the first threshold value for beach litter last september. this means that a beach will need to have less than 20 litter items for every 100 metres of coastline to reach good environmental status. more of these values will be agreed in the near future for surface water litter, seabed litter and microplastics. this will also help achieve the objectives defined in the single-use plastics directive and the circular economy action plan. we are now embarking on the review of this marine strategy framework directive. building on these achievements, we will need to address the shortcomings we identify, notably concerning the determination of good environmental status, and further mainstream the directive’s objectives into other policies. moreover, the zero-pollution action plan we are to adopt in may will strengthen our resolve to fight pollution of all kinds, including at sea, and to reduce it to levels that are no longer harmful for both humans and biodiversity. to do so we will look at strengthening the implementation of existing instruments and where necessary review them. we will address pollutants of emerging concern and we will also set up an integrated framework for zero-pollution monitoring and outlook. as regards microplastics, we have already made progress towards restriction where they are intentionally added to products. we are currently assessing the recent opinion by the european chemicals agency on this matter. we are also advancing work on intentional releases of microplastics and will consider labelling, standardisation, certification and regulatory measures. secondly, i fully agree that there are still important knowledge gaps and that research and innovation play a crucial role here. in this context, i want to highlight the oceans, seas and waters mission under our horizon europe programme. it’s objective is to scale up solutions and accelerate the transition towards restoring the health of our marine and aquatic ecosystems. furthermore, other parts of horizon europe will be looking at improving fisheries monitoring and control capabilities by developing new technological solutions, for instance, including the improvement of fishing gear. in parallel, our ongoing work on ocean observation aims at improving the collection of more coherent, better and less costly marine data, which is the backbone of an effective ocean policy. thirdly, marine litter has no borders and today even the most remote islands are polluted by marine litter. and therefore i agree that we need to step up our international efforts. the commission continues to lead efforts at international level to reach a global agreement on plastics, to prevent and reduce plastic pollution. the agreement would cover the entire life cycle of plastic, especially the upstream part, and place the focus on prevention. we are working towards the next session of the united nations environment assembly in february next year, where we hope that an intergovernmental negotiating committee will be established at the launch of the formal negotiation process. we also adopted new rules on the export-import and intra-eu shipment of plastic waste following the agreement under the basel convention. this is an important milestone in fighting plastic pollution. the export of plastic waste is now only allowed under very strict conditions. the export of unsorted plastic waste to non-oecd countries is completely banned. before closing, i also want to recall that we are actively engaging with our fishermen and women to raise awareness and promote best practices regarding the collection of marine litter. our current and future european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund provides for funding of fishing-for-litter schemes. in the current period a total of eur 22 million was allocated from the european maritime and fisheries fund to such schemes in seven coastal member states, and we are actively encouraging member states to promote such schemes in their national programmes for the new programming period. we hope we can also count on your support in promoting these schemes and in your contacts with the sector and of course your national authorities. finally let me once again congratulate and thank you for your excellent work on this very important issue, which indeed deserves our full attention and commitment. we all have to join forces to ensure that our oceans remain clean and healthy so that they can continue to provide us with oxygen to absorb co2 and to be our ally in the fight against climate change, to feed us and to be the foundation of our coastal communities’ prosperity and our citizens’ well-being. and i’m looking forward to working closely with you and with your constituencies to add this important touch of blue to our green deal.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow, 25 march 2021.
the following is an extract from the report by mr cláudio monteiro de aguiar on the eu strategy for sustainable tourism [2020/2038 (ini) ] (a9-0033/2021).
the rapporteur. - madam president, the tourism and travel industry is facing the worst, the most dramatic period in its history. the losses faced by tourism businesses and their employees today are 11 times higher than those recorded during the economic crisis of 2009. the sector, which is one of the most resilient and has been the engine of growth in countries, needs the union's solidarity and support more than ever. the european parliament in this report presents a set of clear answers for the tourism and travel industry and also for transport, which can and should be implemented. we've been asking for coordination since the beginning of the pandemic crisis. we have presented solutions for implementing a european test protocol, starting with european investment and also with government investment, at no cost to european citizens. the tourism sector needs short-term liquidity to help avoid the scourge of insolvency and thus save jobs and people's lives, as well as capitalisation and the strengthening of equity to secure its future. recovery is expected to be difficult and long. the recovery plans of each of the 27 must therefore include projects for tourism. without this support, there will be no green and digital transition. the criteria for the award of financial support should be based on the sector's contribution to the gross domestic product of each country and region. countries such as portugal and the outermost regions of europe have their wealth heavily leveraged in the tourism sector and should therefore be the subject of increased attention. the union needs to do more, it needs to have more powers, and the european parliament is ready and is asking the commissioner for a strategy and an action plan. we need a marshall plan for the sector, as you said a short while ago, but we need it for tomorrow because if we leave things as they are, those who can capitalise on their businesses and those who cannot will be left behind with unpredictable social and economic consequences. the tourism and travel industry believes in european responses, in common responses, but for that, there needs to be political will. the union must come together, join forces and have the political courage to adopt a european policy for tourism, to accept that in the future it is possible to set up a european agency for tourism which will work with data, which will use big data to find the best solutions and which will support all stakeholders, but also all those who are directly or indirectly involved in this sector of activity, in making policy decisions. this period is crucial, this report is crucial to make it clear to our fellow citizens, the european citizens, that europe is coordinated, that europe has measures, that europe will prepare funding to support businesses, to support institutions, to support european citizens in this difficult phase in which the health crisis, this covid-19 pandemic crisis has struck the whole world, but in particular the weaker regions and with more delicate economies and this is, in fact, the moment for the european parliament to give a proof. this is a report with a clear path to sustainable tourism, to tourism of the future. let there be political courage in the union to defend transport, tourism and travel effectively. we will thus be able to live up to the expectations of our citizens.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, allow me to congratulate ms monteiro de aguiar on her report and the constructive ideas for the future of european tourism. the commission shares your vision and goals for a sustainable, digital and resilient tourism ecosystem. the pandemic has deeply disrupted europe’s tourism ecosystem, weakening its immediate ability to invest and rebound. it has affected all regions of europe, and particularly harshly those heavily reliant on tourism, including coastal areas, islands and the eu’s outermost regions. at the same time, there is hope. europeans are eager to travel again. as the epidemiological situation remains worrisome, we need to put in place measures that protect public health and ensure safety but that also allow safe travel and tourism. we need to protect businesses and jobs in tourism and exploit the business potential of greening the sector. the eu has mobilised unprecedented emergency support for the tourism ecosystem and individual companies. we have also been working with member states to coordinate action as regards restrictions of free movement and safety measures. thanks to the eu vaccination strategy and efforts made across the eu, we can expect that member states will be gradually reopening to tourists in the coming months. to facilitate a safe reopening, the commission proposed last week a package of measures, including a legislative proposal for a digital green certificate. currently, member states have different conditions of entry, such as pcr tests and quarantine. we already have many problems in the recognition of test results from other member states. with the rollout of vaccinations, the worry is that member states propose diverse solutions on how to allow vaccinated citizens to enter their country and on how to prove that they are vaccinated. this could lead to a real barrier to free movement and to the functioning of the single market. hence the need for a european solution applied evenly by all countries. let me be clear: this certificate is non—discriminatory. it cannot and should not be used as a precondition for free movement, nor should it be used as a tool for border control. it will include proof that a person has been vaccinated or the results of tests and information on covid—19 recovery. with the summer travel season approaching, the certificate should be in place by mid—june at the latest. in parallel to the institutional negotiations, the member states and the commission are already working on the technical solution. the commission is counting on your support for its swift adoption. health and safety standards are key to reassure travellers and tourists. they also guarantee a level playing field for businesses. the commission has asked the european standardisation organisation to work on a standardisation product for all eu tourism businesses, with an easily recognisable visual identity. this should also be ready in time for the summer. regarding the long—term perspective, the commission is fully mobilised to help restart the tourism ecosystem with concrete actions. following the safe reopening package of last week, the commission will propose next month an updated industrial strategy. it will include measures to draw lessons from the crisis and strengthen the resilience of the single market economy and its 14 industrial ecosystems, including tourism. the commission is also working with member states and stakeholders to develop a european agenda for tourism with a shared long—term roadmap. among the priorities, we are considering sustainable destination and tourism services, including an eu ecolabel and emas tourist accommodation. the european year of rail is an excellent opportunity to boost sustainable ways of travelling and unlock new destinations when tourism can restart. we also need digitalisation and improved data sharing to allow for informed, safe travel spread across more destinations and, of course, the upskilling and reskilling of workers, including through the pact for skills in tourism. due to the pandemic, the investment needs of the tourism ecosystem are the highest among all the industrial ecosystems. in this context, the recovery and resilience facility, along with the new multiannual financial framework, will play a crucial role. we hope that member states and the tourism industry will seize these unprecedented opportunities. honourable members of parliament, protecting businesses and jobs will be at the heart of the eu’s agenda, as will our commitment to help rebuild resilient and sustainable tourism. i am confident that together we can relaunch a stronger tourism ecosystem and maintain the european union as the world’s leading destination.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow, 25 march 2021. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic, which has been raging in europe for over a year, has taken a heavy toll on the tourism industry. in recent months, due to the second and third waves of the pandemic, most operators in this sector have again been forced to reduce or completely suspend their activities. therefore, without adequate and immediate financial support from the european union and its member states, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in particular will not survive the current crisis. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. the covid-19 pandemic has also highlighted the urgent need for a european tourism policy. the inclusion of tourism in the eu's shared competences, the creation of a separate budget line for tourism in the eu's multiannual budget and the establishment of a european tourism agency are all actions needed to maintain europe's position as the world's most popular tourist destination and tourism as the third largest sector of socioeconomic activity in the community.
in writing. cohesion policy is the european union's largest and most important investment tool. it can therefore potentially play a key role in combating climate change and make a significant contribution to the objectives and targets of the european green deal. but let us not forget that climate policy and the associated energy transition have a very strong and inseparable socio-economic dimension. the pursuit of climate neutrality in the european union requires many member states and their citizens to make concessions and sacrifices that they may not be prepared to make. the path to a green deal must be fair, leaving no one behind, otherwise cohesion policy will only serve to deepen the differences between countries and regions in europe. in my view, this report goes far beyond interinstitutional and political agreements, promoting actions that may harm the citizens of the union. the report called for a complete and almost immediate phase-out of fossil fuels, including natural gas. this is contrary to the fundamental right of member states to decide on their own 'energy basket'. member states can achieve climate neutrality only within their capabilities and in their own individual way.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are reading two different kinds of news these days: on the one hand, strengthening a positive agenda for turkey-eu relations; on the other hand, there is the freedom-threatening noose of erdoğan, which is tightening ever more on the rights of women and the turkish people. it seems different news but i'm starting to think it's related, because the better the relations between our continent and turkey, the freer erdoğan's hand is to punch the freedom and rights in his own country. it 's not the first time in history . the inaction that led to the aberrant totalitarian ideologies may seem far back in time, but then it is useful to remember the more recent wounds, from those in the balkans, to the middle east, to the maghreb. the european parliament has been a great help to the turkish people in the past, and it is a great help to the turkish people in the present.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. first of all, i would like to express my solidarity and support to the turkish people protesting against the denial of their rights and protection. we are looking at turkey today with our eyes and our indignation, while poland, a member state, is one step away from following in its footsteps and the european union is not reacting. the polish sejm may next week refer to further parliamentary work a citizens' bill that assumes the denunciation of the istanbul convention. the polish constitutional court may at any time consider the prime minister's application to declare the istanbul convention incompatible with the polish constitution. it's the same court that stripped the last remaining polish woman of her legal abortion rights. if the european commission is serious about its commitment to tackling gender-based violence, it cannot sit idly by. it's gonna be too late in a minute.
madam president! no woman or girl should have to experience violence. the consequences are devastating for mental health, for family functioning, for the development of a young woman and the decisions she makes in adulthood. president erdogan, speaking at the convention, spoke about the attempt to impose gender ideology, western values, the promotion of homosexuality and the undermining of the traditional role of the family. the same arguments are used today by politicians of the ruling party in poland, in my country, who want to terminate the convention, ban divorce, punish abortion or decriminalize first-time battery. a few years ago i would have considered this absurd, today i am worried to hear these statements, because they not only attack the family, but discourage its establishment and unfortunately i do not hear the words of opposition from many women, but especially from the politicians of the ruling party. where's our female solidarity? i don't see her, and i'm sorry to say. i don't know if president erdogan will change his mind, but i hope that no european country will withdraw from the convention, because only weak, macho men are afraid of strong women and beat women, and only weak, macho politicians want to be allowed to do such things.
madam president, 350 women are murdered every year in turkey and, according to the world health organization, the incidence is over 38%, whereas the european average is only 25%. more than half of the murders are reported as suicides, and no records are kept even at the ministry of family policy. in times of pandemic, domestic violence has a huge increase and the victims are completely unprotected. however, president erdogan withdrew his country from the istanbul convention, in the month when the world is highlighting the struggles for equality and the fight against violence against women. international outcry, reactions and calls from the un, the european union, state leaders and civil society organisations to reconsider his decision have all but vanished. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the peace process. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in turkey, and i am sure that the european parliament will be able to support the turkish government in its efforts to bring about a peaceful solution to the conflict.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you so much to the minister and the honourable members for this debate. but isn’t it sad that we should be discussing this and speaking about this? i can assure you that the commission continues to support women and girls, victims of gender-based violence, both in the eu and outside its borders. we will continue to keep the prevention of violence against women and domestic violence, as well as the protection of the victims, high on the internal and international agenda. we stand ready to enhance our cooperation with stakeholders, partners and member states to make europe and the rest of the world a safer place. we stand ready to engage in discussion with those who are sceptical or have doubts. only by joining forces and sharing expertise and best practice can we be successful and accelerate the societal change we need for achieving gender equality in law and practice, and eradicate discourage of violence against women and girls.
acting president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is quite clear from this debate that turkey's withdrawal from the istanbul convention is a serious matter, which represents a step backwards in turkey's obligations to respect democracy, the rule of law and women's rights. after being the first country to ratify the convention, turkey is now the first country to abandon it, but no culture, religion or tradition can be an excuse to ignore violence against women. in this time of pandemic, it is time to show leadership and increase global efforts to combat violence against women. as i have already said, we cannot but deeply regret and express our disagreement with the decision of the turkish government to withdraw from this convention. this decision risks jeopardising the protection of the fundamental rights of turkish women, but it also sends a dangerous message of a backsliding in the rights of women in the world, which we must be aware of. the portuguese presidency of the council will continue to follow this matter with great attention, in particular by urging turkey to reverse its decision and join the countries which, in the 21st century, defend the rights of women and girls as a fundamental element of human rights, peace, security and equality.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. today we are talking about turkey's decision to withdraw from the istanbul convention. we can only regret this and urge the turkish government to reconsider its decision. unfortunately, this is not just a turkish problem. progress made so hard over many years in the area of equality between women and men is deteriorating rapidly. the covid pandemic has exacerbated and accelerated this situation. it is not justified that the convention, which aims to protect and defend women and girls against violence, has become a political tool for the disintegration of society and the distortion of the main objective of the convention. the turkish withdrawal is a very clear example of this. but not only in turkey, but also in some eu countries, there is a strong provocative campaign against this convention, which has no real factual basis, but which is being actively used by particularly radical political forces with the aim of dividing society. a more active role at eu level is needed to inform our people about the real purpose of the convention to ensure that women and girls are protected from all forms of violence, and we must make every effort to ensure that, at least in the european union, all eu member states ratify the convention. if we do not do this, the fight against violence against women will be nothing more than an empty declaration, and all our efforts to achieve a safer and more equal society will be nothing more than empty promises.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic has had, and continues to have, a very strong impact on women: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the possibility of a national system for the exchange of information on the situation of women in the labour market. and above all, violence against women and girls, especially domestic violence, has increased dramatically, to the extent of becoming what the united nations has called a shadow epidemic. it is therefore deeply regrettable and worrying that turkey has withdrawn from the istanbul convention, despite being the first country to ratify it. the convention is the first international legal instrument to establish binding rules for preventing and combating crimes of violence against women and domestic violence, and for the protection of victims, including children who assist them. the european union must therefore work to ensure that turkey reviews this decision, which risks undermining the protection and rights of turkish women and girls and undermining international efforts to combat these intolerable violations of fundamental rights and the principle of equality. the european parliament's call for the union itself to conclude the accession process to the convention as soon as possible should be reiterated.
in writing. the istanbul convention is the first legally binding instrument that creates a comprehensive legal framework to combat violence against women and focuses on the prevention of domestic violence, the protection of victims and the prosecution of those accused. being a party to this convention, implementing its provisions means being committed to the fight against violence against women and domestic violence. the allegations made by the far right that the convention is a 'tool of ideological warfare' are absurd. and they would be funny if they weren't so tragic. by denouncing the istanbul convention, president erdogan has once again distanced turkey from the standards of the rule of law and liberal democracy. he has made the situation worse for turkish women and for all domestic violence victims in turkey. and he did it for his own political interest. the same thing is being attempted by autocrats in some of the member states of the union. in poland, ruled by the united in hate right, an attempt to cancel the convention has already begun. the european union has signed the convention, and it is time to ratify it as soon as possible. as rapporteur for the european parliament's committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the eu's accession to the convention, i will do everything to ensure that this happens. let us remember that the union is its inhabitants. and all public authorities, regardless of their level, have a duty to protect them from violence and to ensure their rights.
the next item is the joint debate on the european data strategy on: the report by mia petra kumpuli-natri on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the european data strategy (2020/2217 ((ini)) (a9-0027/2021) and the statement by the commission on the commission's report on the evaluation of the implementation of the general data protection regulation after two years of its application (2020/2717 ((rsp)).
the next item on the agenda is the vote. we will vote on the items on the agenda. the vote will take place from 11.00 a.m. to 12.15 p.m. the same voting method as in the previous vote was used. all votes will be cast by name. i call the first part of the vote open, and you can vote until 12:15. the results of the first part of the vote will be announced at 2.30 p.m.
we return to the joint debate on the european data strategy on: the report by miapetra kumpuli-natri on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the european data strategy (2020/2217 (ini)) (a9-0027/2021) and the statement by the commission on the commission's report on the evaluation of the implementation of the general data protection regulation after two years of its application (2020/2717 (rsp)).
i'm not going to let you get away with this. each of us has more and more devices that communicate with the internet, sending data about our activities. the legal vacuum that has existed so far in relation to the processing of such data has led to abuses and raised legitimate concerns among the citizens of our countries. it's the regulations on anonymity, the security of users of digital devices that we're happy about. we want data to be processed to find solutions that improve quality of life and drive the economy. at the same time, we see the risk of the sharing of data being dominated by the world's largest technology companies, which also own the largest, most systemically important internet platforms. in our opinion, the project does not provide sufficient guarantees to eliminate the risk of such dominance. i would also stress that we want the data collected by governments and shared with business to contribute to building a modern digital economy that makes life easier for citizens. but we don't want them to be used to build competitive advantage for private companies over state-owned ones. this requires an even greater effort, both from the eu institutions and from the national states.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 25 march 2021. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the progress reports on albania, kosovo, north macedonia and serbia for the years 2019 to 2020 on: the report by isabel santos on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs on the commission reports on albania for the years 2019 to 2020 (2019/2170 (ini)) (a9-0041/2021), the report by viola von cramon-taubadel on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs on the commission reports on kosovo for the years 2019 to 2020 (2019/2172 (ini)) (a9-0031/2021), the report by ilhan kyuukachi on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs on the commission reports on north macedonia for the years 2019 to 2020 (2019/2174 (ini)) (a9-0040/2021) and the report by vladimír bilčíkov on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs on the commission reports on serbia for the years 2019 to 2020 (2019/210021).
mr. chairman, please! threats and attacks on journalists have become part of their job today. harassment of journalists is increasingly being used as a method of silencing the media. press freedom has declined around the world, and it seems that europe is no longer a safe haven for journalists. the security of journalists, in particular investigative journalists, is a vital concern of democratic societies. maltese daphne caruana galizia was killed by hired killers in connection with her work as a reporter. she wrote about corruption in both the business community and the government. although the investigation into the case led to the arrest of suspects, it appears that not all of the persons involved the perpetrator or their accomplices have been arrested and charged. we don't know everything yet. we do know how far the corruption case investigated by the journalist may have gone. only when the truth about this murder is fully explained will the work for which daphne caruana galizia paid the ultimate price not be in vain. the resolution of this case has far-reaching implications for the rule of law and the problem of corruption in general. we can't have uncomfortable journalists killed to shut them up. there is another issue with the media. they used to be the social controls over the rest of the government, to prevent abuse and corruption. but do they always serve that purpose today? they are, after all, referred to as the fourth estate, though not by choice and not without control. it is worth remembering that, although i realize, mr president, that this is a different debate, but perhaps it is worth taking it up as well.
madam president, mr. chairman of the council! the covid-19 crisis remains the most serious challenge for the european commission and the member states. and it will be at the summits that follow, because it's a leading and important topic. and we've been talking about the furniture of diplomacy for so long, because we have to remember that the continued skill, the effective coordination of the pandemic response, is the key to rebuilding the trust and credibility that was so badly damaged at the beginning of this crisis. because at this stage of the pandemic, there's no room for weakness or for mistakes. the time for us to say this is the first time we've had a crisis like this is over. the key now is to take action and adopt solutions to effectively enforce the agreements that have been concluded with pharmaceutical companies. the first quarter was a disaster in that respect. improve the production and distribution capacity of vaccines. anti-vaccination movements are growing, and attitudes toward vaccines are changing. it's a problem we can't afford to ignore. we need professional, smart, honest information campaigns, otherwise green... (the president cut off the speaker)
president of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank this parliament for this debate and for the clear words of support and encouragement and the clear position. human rights are indivisible, dignity and respect are inviolable, and we are committed to this. when i was born, not that long ago, in parts of europe, women were still forbidden to have their own bank account. and a husband could dismiss his wife from her job without her consent, on the grounds that she was neglecting her domestic duties. when i was a teenager, in parts of europe, it was still illegal for women to play football. when i was growing up and became a young woman, in parts of europe, divorce was still a guilt trip, and it was mostly at the expense of women. and when i had my first children, it was still in parts of europe that, of course, there was no childcare available, and when a young mother tried to balance work and family, the first thing she could hear was the reproach that she had chosen to be a bad mother. it took centuries centuries to criminalize domestic violence, rape and marital rape and that is just the history of europe. we know that in many parts of the world, it is still very different and more difficult for women than what i have just described. i would like to say that we have come a long way, but we still have a long way to go. i thank parliament for its encouragement, for its clear words, for its solidarity and support. i will continue to fight tirelessly for equal rights for all people. i will continue to work tirelessly for a europe that speaks with one voice, and this is our common task, charles, and we will do it together, i am sure. because i want this wonderful motto 'united in diversity' to be actually filled with life.
president of the european council. madam president and madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, this is a sincere debate and it is a tough debate, and it is the dignity of european democracy. we all measure and i measure - i spoke about this - the damage and the shock that has been caused. i am absolutely convinced that, as many have said, in trials, in difficulties, one must find the strength to bounce back stronger, higher and with more determination. this is also a personal lesson for me and i want to draw from it the energy, the determination and the commitment to make this european pride - the rule of law, democracy, respect, equality and non-discrimination - more than ever a top priority, to advance this political project with the values to which we are all attached. i myself am the father of two little girls and i dream for them too, as many have said, of a world where equality is not a theoretical proclamation but a reality on a daily basis. that is why i have expressed my very concrete commitment by wanting to respond to the hand that has been extended by several members of this european parliament and by actually trying, in respect for the institutions and with the rotating presidencies, to make concrete commitments. i welcome the announcement that has been made and the very strong mobilisation expressed by ursula on the subject; i am sure that the commission will be able to count on my full determination to do my utmost to keep europe moving in the right direction. we are also proud, and i am personally proud, that the european union has a president of the commission, a president of the european central bank, that many european states have supported a candidate for director-general of the international monetary fund, or, more recently, that a member of parliament from your assembly is co-chair of this important organisation called covax. this is an extremely important issue. however, there is still work to be done and there is still a need to mobilise. i repeat: for me, this trial, this difficulty, is also a lesson, a lesson that leads me to multiply my energy, to multiply my will. finally, it is absolutely certain that this european unity is close to my heart. for a year now, let us admit, we have not been immune from the difficulties and obstacles at the european level, whether it is this covid crisis, this need to commit to a credible and ambitious recovery fund, this climate commitment, too, for which the european union is showing the way to the rest of the world. i ask you to take into account the fact that for just over a year now, on each of these subjects, there has not been the slightest difference between the commission and the president of the european council on the priorities for which we have been mobilised. and that's how, in one year, we have moved the european union forward with this european budget, with this stimulus fund, with this climate commitment. just a few years ago, just three years ago, only seven member states, in simiu, were in favour of this climate neutrality by 2050. this is the paradox: there is this image that is shocking, that is offensive, you said it forcefully, sometimes harshly, but with sincerity. at the same time, around the table in turkey, it is the same message that ursula and i have been sending on the issue of human rights, on the issue of women's rights, on the unacceptability of targeting freedom of expression or political parties, on an agenda without naivety, without any naivety, that we want less negative and more positive, for more economic development, to manage in a safe and responsible way these migration issues (millions of syrian refugees are currently in turkey), or to deploy ourselves at the regional level. because for this european union of 450 million citizens, 27 member states, there is a challenge: how are we going to achieve more stability, more security, more values close to our values of freedom, democracy and the rule of law at the borders of the european union? it is clear that we have to deal with autocratic regimes which do not share our values. it's an issue in russia, it's an issue in china, it's an issue in turkey as well. i just want to conclude by saying that i am totally committed, totally committed. as regards turkey, there will be a meeting in june and i hope that together with the european parliament and the european commission we can move forward, guided by the light of these european values, guided by a common commitment to the service of 450 million european citizens.
the joint debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in writing. the importance of rebuilding eu relations with turkey lies in the growing backwardness on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in one of our main neighbours and strategic partners. in addition to the escalation of tension in the eastern mediterranean, one of the latest developments that has raised serious concerns is turkey's withdrawal from the istanbul convention, a key instrument to combat violence against women. in this connection, while the commission was calling for a reversal of this decision in favour of women's rights, turkey deliberately denied a seat to president ursula von der leyen during the negotiations in ankara. if we are to build strong agreements with turkey on common objectives, respect for human rights and efforts to achieve gender equality are non-negotiable conditions. however, the eu should set a good example and unblock the proposal for a directive on women in the council, on boards of directors, among other measures still needed to strengthen women's rights in europe.
in writing. the istanbul convention is a constitution of the rights of women who have experienced violence. the european union, for which gender equality should be the foundation and guideline of all action, cannot turn a blind eye to turkey's withdrawal. either we are a political organisation working for democracy, human rights and equality - as the eu treaty indicates - or we are an economic organisation for which business is more important than human rights - as unfortunately the practice indicates. in many cases, the european commission shows too little determination, does not exert enough pressure on states that violate human rights and does not use the political power of the eu to clearly say which borders are inviolable. the statement issued after the meeting with turkish president recep tayyip erdogan, which was held on 7 april with the president of the council charles michel, and the president of the european commission ursula von der leyen, called for strengthening economic cooperation and trade. the commission president only mentions the istanbul convention at the end of her statement and only expresses, once again, her deep concern at the fact that turkey has withdrawn from it. worrying won't protect turkish women who experience domestic violence and die from it every day. either the european union will openly and resolutely defend fundamental human rights, or the crisis of their protection will threaten its very existence from within.
madam president, i have always maintained that brexit was a failure and bad news, both for the european union and for the united kingdom. every day we realize more of the terrible mistake. the only good news now is that we save a no-deal exit, because that would be even more catastrophic for many sectors and for bilateral cooperation. this agreement lays the foundations of a commercial relationship between two partners, which "let's not kid ourselves" must be understood for the good of all, but especially of our companies, our smes, our farmers, our fishermen, who need certainty and no more uncertainties, and much less now, when, in addition, they are being hit so hard by covid-19. none of them can be trapped in more costs or more additional procedures or more bureaucracy or more tariff barriers if we want them to be competitive. i have always been an optimist, but this time i am seriously concerned about the disastrous consequences of brexit, which are already being felt in the agricultural sector and especially in the fruit and vegetable exports of some european regions, such as my own region, the canary islands. i am very concerned about possible trade agreements which the united kingdom may sign with third countries and which tend to remove the safeguard mechanisms which protect the most sensitive european agricultural sectors, such as fruit and vegetables, which are crucial to the economy of many of our regions. i am concerned about the fisheries sector, which i have spoken of so many times from this podium and which was key in the final achievement of the brexit agreement. our message on this has always been strong. the fishermen of the european union and the united kingdom have shared the waters of our seas for centuries and this must remain the case in some way. the defence of our fishing industry is essential. whether we like it or not, the united kingdom and europe are bound to get along and it is our responsibility in this parliament to see to it that the implementation of the agreements reached translates into greater levels of economic integration between the two partners. if not, we'll have failed again.
i am quite sure, mr president, that historians will judge that brexit is a historic mistake and that neither party - whether the european union or britain - will gain much from it. and i agree with that, actually, but at the same time i say today that i am happy and relieved that we can vote on this agreement, because the uk is and remains an important partner and friend. and the relationship today is delicate and difficult. we've been doing a lot of work on the vaccination strategy in europe, and the way we've been dealing with each other, and with the uk, has not been good. the way we stumbled across astrazeneca was not good. this agreement is therefore important and should be a step towards building confidence in future relations, because we have not only a common past but also a common future. think about climate, but also think about geopolitics and how we can and should act together from democratic institutions against autocratic societies and regimes like china. in the agreement - and i want to emphasize this today - we have ensured that high social and environmental standards apply in a level playing field. and we have also ensured that these are enforceable, very enforceable, in the negotiations, and if they are not met, sanctions are possible. i want to emphasize that because it's the first of its kind that we have such a very strong tsd chapter, because that's what it is. and for our group, that is also the benchmark for all future tsd chapters. so let me conclude: yes, we must approve this, but above all let us look to the future and build a strong, rules-based, warm relationship with our friends in the united kingdom.
madam president, it is regrettable that judicial cooperation in civil matters was not part of the eu—uk future partnership negotiations and the trade and cooperation agreement (tca). this lack of cooperation may have disastrous effects on european consumers and also on victims of human rights violations all around the world. the key here is the lugano convention, an international legal cooperation agreement. without this agreement in place, it will be very difficult for anyone to hold uk companies accountable. for both companies and consumers in the eu, this may mean that court decisions from the eu may not in practice be enforceable in the uk anymore. access to justice may require very expensive litigation in the uk. for victims of human rights violations, this may mean that they cannot rely on parent company liability in the uk as the uk courts may consider that another forum outside the uk is more appropriate to decide the case. once again, the victims may be stuck in court in a third country, in a litigation against a subsidiary or supplier, resulting in a court decision that may be impossible to enforce. the good thing, however, is that the uk does not want this to happen. the uk wants to rejoin the lugano convention and all other members of the convention support its membership. we need more legal cooperation, not less, and the eu must not block the uk’s accession.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are ratifying today the agreement which not only regulates direct trade issues but also the accompanying rules and standards. the left will vote for the agreement; in this "lose-lose" situation, it's the least of my evils. the cooperation between the political groups was exemplary. our core demands were accepted, in particular the prioritization of peace in ireland by avoiding the return to a trade border across the island of ireland, but also by prohibiting the lowering of social standards to gain a competitive advantage. as eu co-legislators, we are not just saying 'yes' today, but we will have to monitor whether and how the johnson government will also comply with the treaty. and we must quickly establish a framework in which civil society, trade unions and individual citizens can participate in the control of compliance with the rules of the game - precisely because it is more than a functioning deal and market.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the agreement is the lowest common denominator currently left over from the uk's membership of the european union. unfortunately, the european union has already been forced to open infringement proceedings because of the threat to the peace process on the island of ireland. unfortunately, the whole financial services sector has not yet been negotiated. unfortunately, cooperation in the fields of foreign, security and defence policy was excluded from the agreement. unfortunately, the uk has declined to participate in the erasmus education programme, a disadvantage for young people on both sides of the channel. i could go on and on about the pros and cons. but i would like to use the last part of my speech to ask ourselves whether we are not also experiencing within our own member states events which have led to brexit in the united kingdom. we must ask ourselves whether we are responding properly to the concerns, fears and cries for help of the citizens of our member states. why do politicians and parties score points by blaming the european union? why does nationalism seem to offer protection and strength to too many citizens? why are we so powerless against fake news, lies, incitement of law, values and our fundamental freedoms? why are eu citizens from other member states still called foreigners? and why do eu leaders proclaim that they want to be independent of the eu and complain about eu decisions when they are present? we should raise these questions in the context of the debate on the future of europe, and we must bring the social and democratic question to the fore.
madam president, today’s debate and vote on the trade and cooperation agreement with the uk marks a long overdue end to the process of great britain’s withdrawal from the eu. it is worth repeating that britain’s withdrawal from our union is a historical mistake. however, the negotiated agreement is a success, which limits the negative consequences this process brings. the stories of frictionless trade after brexit are now long gone, as consumers and smes become victims of trade barriers which still exist even if tariffs do not. we can only wish that in time, barriers will be overshadowed by new business opportunities, but nothing will truly replace the benefits of a fully open single market. that being said, i would like to point out another crucial topic of our debate. it is an open secret that the uk might have been influencing the eu’s tax havens blacklist. what do the british virgin islands, the cayman islands, bermuda, jersey, guernsey and the isle of man have in common? all are dependent on the uk government’s power to impose a veto on their decisions and all are considered as top tax havens. many of their shady financial dealings are also dealt with through the city of london, yet another tax haven for many. i hope that while we are on the path to finding a global deal on the fight against tax havens prime minister johnson won’t spoil the struggle, just like the grinch wanted to steal christmas, as bojo sometimes hints. i hope that london will be calling, but with hints for its dependencies that the time of shady economics is over for the eu, the us and the world. an honest brexit deal should also lead to this.
mr president, to quote william shakespeare, ‘true it is that we have seen better days’. days when the united kingdom was a member of our grand european project. but we must accept the facts, and in this spirit, i welcome the agreement. it is far better than a no—deal scenario, with one exception: erasmus. the uk decision not to participate in this flagship academic exchange programme is simply an act of cultural vandalism, as scotland’s prime minister called it. scotland wishes to stay in the programme. i do not agree with president von der leyen that it cannot be possible while scotland is a constituent nation of the uk. we must explore pathways to keep in the programme those who want to be in it: scotland, wales and others. this house must insist on that, and the message to all governments: do listen to all your nations so that ‘to be or not to be’ is not the question.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on discharge for the financial year 2019 (52 reports): report drawn up by mr joachim kuhs on behalf of the committee on budgetary control on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2019, section iii commission and executive agencies (com ((2020) 0288 - c9-0220/2020 - 2020/2140 ((dec)) (a9-0117/2021), report drawn up by mr petri sarama on behalf of the committee on budgetary control on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2019, section i parliament (com ((2020) 0288 - c9-0221/2020 - 2020/2141 ((dec)) (a0449/2021), report drawn up by mr durcala on behalf of the committee on budgetary control on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2019, section iv council (com ((2020) 0288 - c0-0220/2020) section ii council (com (2020) 0649-02a09)), report drawn up by mr durcala on behalf of the european commission on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2019, section iv (com ((2020-02a0289-02a0649-02a) council (com (a06/209-02a06/20))), section ii report drawn up by mr durcala on discharge in respect of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2019 budget of the european union (com ((2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/ report by martin dellacqua on behalf of the budgetary control commission on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2019-2020 (com (98) c/a/20202020) c/a/20202020 (com (98) c/a/2020) c/a/2020 (com (98) c/a/2020) c/a/2020 (com (98) c/a/2020) c/a/2020 (com (98) c/a/2020) c/a/2020 (com (98) c/a/2020) c/a/2020 (com (98) c/a/2020) c/a/2020 (com (98) c/2020) c/a/2020 (com (98) c/2020) c/2020 (com (98) c/2020) c/2020 (com (98) c/2020) c/2020 (com (98) c/2020) c/2020 (2020/2020/2020) c/2020/2020 (2020/2020/2020) c/2020/2020 (2020/2020/2020) c/2020/2020/2020 (2020/2020/2020/2020) c/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020 (2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020) c/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020 (2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020) c/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/2020/ report drawn up by mr czarnecki on behalf of the committee on budgetary control on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2019/2020 (com (98) 289 final) c8/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c08/c0 i'd like to warn you that the president of the council is on his way, so we'll begin the debate.
the rapporteur. mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! as regards discharge for the agencies i have worked with, management solutions are often too complex or inadequate. for example, some agencies have too many boards, which threatens to make decision-making inefficient and increases administrative costs significantly. the agency's international reach is often limited. in most agencies, accountability and performance should be improved and reporting streamlined in view of the qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the accounts issued by the european court of auditors. i will now present the findings concerning two agencies: the european asylum support office and the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators. starting with easo: the court of auditors found that it had obtained sufficient assurance that the office's annual accounts were reliable and sufficient audit evidence as to the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts. however, the court has issued qualified opinions on its findings notified for the financial years 2016, 2017 and 2018 on the legality of the regularity of payments. for the financial year 2019, the court found other errors relating to payments, with the exception of the consequences of errors in 2016, 2017 and 2018 and payments relating to observations for 2019. the payments underlying the annual accounts for the year ended 31 december 2019 are legal and regular in all other material respects. it should be noted that the new executive director was appointed on 16 june 2019. as regards the european anti-fraud office's investigation, following the receipt of the olaf report at the end of 2018, the office initiated three disciplinary proceedings which are currently ongoing. the procurement procedures of the office with regard to temporary staff in greece and the premises rented by the office in lesbos were irregular. the office's tender procedures for temporary staff in italy were irregular, although payments had not yet been made under these contracts. the office's procedures for selecting and contracting external experts consistently lacked a robust audit trail, which in turn resulted in a lack of evidence that the office treated experts equally in its selection procedures. i'll now move on to the other agency, acer. let's start with budget and financial management. the budget implementation rate was 99,50%, which was above the agency's planned target of 95%. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. however, the court has delivered a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying payments, the total amount of which was incorrectly paid corresponds to eur 988 138, representing 6,3% of all payments made by the agency in 2019. irregular payments were found in relation to two irregular procurement procedures which were not carried out in accordance with the tendering procedures. in addition, recruitment procedures were not properly applied in the selection process, resulting in the agency not respecting the principle of equal treatment and not applying effective internal controls. however, the agency reported that its internal control framework is effective, its annual assessment of its implementation did not reveal any deficiencies and the agency's strategic audit plan for 2017-2019 was fully implemented. the agency shall also take further steps to increase the transparency of its activities, such as reporting on meetings of agency staff with external parties (in particular meetings of the agency director with organisations and self-employed persons) and publishing them on the agency's website. at the same time, we should insist that the agency report to the discharge authority without delay on the development of the ongoing activities in the field of it management and market surveillance of remi (i.e. the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on wholesale energy market integrity and transparency). we're waiting for that information. finally, i would like to thank all those who have helped to prepare these discharge reports. i thank the european court of auditors for their cooperation, and in particular my colleagues, and i address these words of special thanks to mrs kamila wrzesińska.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, (the microphone was switched on late) [...] of the libe opinion i will focus on the gai agencies which also played a key role in 2019, supporting european institutions and member states in increasingly challenging challenges in the protection of fundamental rights, security, judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters and migration. in carrying out their tasks, the gai agencies as a whole respected the principles of sound financial management and obtained positive assessments on the reliability of the accounts, the legality and regularity of the operations by the court of auditors, with the only partial exception of easo, which nevertheless took the necessary measures to remedy the previous difficulties. in 2019, the court of auditors again notes that the agencies have committed to follow up on the observations of previous years, although there remains room for improvement, for example in procurement procedures. the recommendation to grant discharge for 2019 to all gai agencies, with the exception of frontex, is therefore consistent, and it is therefore necessary that the investigations initiated, including by olaf, provide full clarity on any critical issues identified.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. – madam president, the committee on culture and education (cult) discharge is not very controversial. a few words in support of the translation centre of the bodies of the union. this centre is very important. the centre guarantees that every citizen in the member states can read and understand the rules and values of our political union. it is of the utmost importance that we make sure that it is easy to access information about the european union to ensure transparency and keep trust in the institutions. so i hope you will support it and i hope you will support the discharge report as such.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is apparently nothing to prevent the court of justice of the european union from granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2019 budget. the implementation rate is 98.7% and the court has become more efficient, in particular thanks to the growing success of the e-curia computer application and the creation of a mechanism for the prior admission of appeals. but in reality, a problem remains: the doubling of the number of judges in the court, from 27 to 52, and soon to 54. this double decision in 2016 costs almost 27 million euros per year, or one million per additional judge, and it seems unnecessary - i fear it anyway, because i heard the judges say it themselves during a secret hearing organized in 2015 by the committee on legal affairs. i therefore denounce this potential gabble. at the very least, we should support the court of auditors, which is asking the court of justice in vain to report to us, and i quote it, on the need and effectiveness of this doubling.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – madam president, good afternoon from poland. it is a good opportunity to assess the extent to which the principle of gender mainstreaming has been integrated within the eu’s policies. unfortunately, we haven’t achieved the progress that we hoped for. we still lack an effective methodology allowing to track gender-equality spending. we also still don’t have an independent budget line for measures specifically targeting gender equality, including gender—based violence. we also should remember that gender equality still hasn’t been mainstreamed across the union budget to the same extent as other policies, as stressed by the european court of auditors. so, it is clear, we must increase our efforts here. at a time when women are on the front line of the covid—19 crisis, whilst their rights are under attack in certain states, gender mainstreaming should not only be a concern of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm) and other dgs, it should be a priority for all of eu institutions and agencies. unfortunately, this is still not the case.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you get away with this. the european globalisation adjustment fund has always been a symbol of solidarity and i am convinced, and i hope, that it will remain so in the years to come. it's a fund that's designed to help us tackle some of the most important challenges in an increasingly globalized world, and that's why it's good that it includes the ones that are most important to workers and to the community: the socioeconomic transformation, the transition to a low-carbon economy, the digital transformation, automation, brexit. i'm glad we're all agreed on the fundamental change, which is to lower the threshold for granting support from 500 to 200 employees. the fund offers a wide range of support for different groups of employees in large enterprises, in small and medium-sized enterprises and for the self-employed. in the face of the challenges i have already mentioned, the ability to reach as many people as possible with support is undoubtedly one of the greatest advantages of this fund, and i hope that member states will be able to take advantage of this. financial assistance from the fund may be used for a variety of activities to support workers, including personalised training or retraining, job search assistance or self-employment assistance. this is very important, especially at this time when we are dealing with the covid-19 crisis and i think that today, when millions of citizens in europe are dealing with the consequences of this pandemic, such support from the european globalisation adjustment fund is very important and necessary. we all hope that this pandemic, this crisis, will end very quickly, that there will be sufficient vaccine supplies, and that everyone will be able to function safely.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! the european globalisation adjustment fund does not change its character, it remains interventionist. its main purpose is to provide support to workers affected by mass redundancies. it has also become more general. the fund finances active labour market instruments, it is a support fund. the aid is still one-off and limited in time. he certainly needed to be changed, and the changes we make improve his efficiency. the fund becomes more available, better used. the most important and valuable change is the reduction of the dismissal threshold to 200. this is a better solution than the one that was proposed 10 years ago. the same applies to the increase in funding for the selfemployed, which is capped at eur 22 000 per beneficiary. the change to smes in one region now affects many different sectors of the economy, rather than one sector as before. one of the reasons for the insufficient use of the fund so far has been the slow and bureaucratic procedure, which is extremely time-consuming and also requires a huge administrative effort. simplifying procedures is also an important and good change. we should adopt and complete this legislative procedure quickly.
madam president! the cor strongly supports the operation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. we will also support new solutions that will make it easier for the unemployed, sometimes victims of globalisation, to access the fund. after all, the unemployed must always be remembered, especially in situations where unemployment is not their fault. but the old adage is that very good solutions are the enemy of good solutions, and here, as a member of the committee on budgets, i see that big climate ideas can generate new unemployment again. the biodiversity directive will certainly contribute to this, which will lead to a blockage of the eu's timber industry, and so we will have unemployment again and we will increase the globalisation adjustment fund again. so i'll remind you of a wise saying by robert schuman: when you're taking on some good ideas, you should always ask yourself a question and realize how much those new ideas will cost.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. the adoption of the citizens, equality, rights and values programme with such unequivocal, unanimous approval is a great success for democracy. it is also a victory for all those who stand for the rule of law, for the defence of civil rights - those fundamental rights that guarantee us europeans security. i would like to thank very warmly the rapporteur, alice kuhnke, and all the rapporteurs and negotiators for their excellent cooperation. i also wanted to thank the commissioner for his support for this project, because it really does offer hope for the practical defence of our rights, but also for the promotion of those values that some people forget about european values. and here is the appeal, commissioner, not mine, but of more than 200 ngos, because they are the ones who are the target of this programme and the ones who are the reason for its existence. an appeal with very specific expectations: how to put it into practice, how to create an annual programme with the direct support of citizens and their local and regional organisations, precisely without the governments. note: i say this with satisfaction as a representative of the polish people, who have 70% more trust in the european union than in the government. so once again, i want to thank everyone who worked across political lines on this program. i'm glad it's moving into the implementation phase. happy birthday to you, europe! you can also be proud of all the people who made this program happen.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! in 2004, when poland joined the european union, we believed that we were entering a community of sovereign nation states, based on such pillars of civilization as christianity, the rule of law and individual freedom. today, from the perspective of this parliament, i regret to say that our original vision of europe is being called into question. we are about to approve a package worth 1.5 billion euros, which is almost entirely intended for ideological activists and guardians of a false notion of political correctness. how can we have a serious debate when one of the aims of the law and values programme is to promote, among other things, abortion in the member states? i see no value in seeking to physically reduce the future generation of europeans. not everyone wants to go down that road. it's time to understand that and start respecting it. if we're all going to have one vision of the world, let's not talk about law, values, equality, diversity. we pride ourselves on being equal, but we don't want to be and we will never be the same. no amount of money can change that. the european value, according to you, is the killing of unborn children. this can't end well for europe. and i want to mention poland because it's been mentioned. i want to emphasize strongly that poland is a country where freedom and dignity of every person are respected. we also respect freedom of thought and choice of worldview, we don't need lessons of tolerance from anyone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new citizens, equality, rights and values programme is an important instrument of the european union and, together with programmes such as erasmus+, creative europe and the european solidarity corps, it is a new financial instrument that will allow the union to continue to promote its values. it promotes citizens' engagement, participation, education and awareness of the common history and events that have shaped and continue to shape europe today. the public interest in this programme has exceeded the budget by many times. only 16% of the requests were implemented, so i am very positive about the outcome of the efforts of both the council and the european parliament to double this budget. that means twice as many citizens, organizations will be able to get involved. i believe that these will be partnership projects between municipalities, educational, cultural and memory institutions across europe and that this programme will really contribute to strengthening european belonging. thank you to everyone who's been involved.
mr. chairman, please! democracy, freedom, equality, the rule of law and human rights are our values - values on which the european union is founded, values on which we have been successfully building a common europe for years. history is a good teacher, if we learn from it. and it teaches us constantly that no political project can be sustainable unless it is based on shared values. it also teaches us that democracy is not just a political procedure, not just a way of counting votes, but it is also, and more importantly, a society that is engaged. a civil society that is engaged, ready to defend its freedoms and its rights. the citizens, equality, rights and values funding programme that we are debating today and voting on tomorrow is a huge support for civic democracy, direct support, excluding central governments, concrete support: over one and a half billion euros for ngos, for social activism, for all those who are engaged in the fight for democracy, freedom, equality, the rule of law and human rights, the fight against violence and discrimination, the fight for a common european heritage, european citizenship, the fight for our common european values. i am very happy to have been able to take part in the creation of this programme, not only as a committed mep rapporteur, but also as a democrat and supporter of a strong, citizens' and federal european union. and finally, in the two languages that need it most. the european union is a union of values, and these are always protected. i'm not going to give up on civil society. the european union is a community of values and we will always defend them, we will defend civil society. with this program, we're all just safer. and thank you to alice kuhnke for your excellent cooperation.
mr president, commissioner, mrs kuhnke, europeans know what happens when the fanaticism and hatred of unscrupulous politicians contaminate everything and turn ordinary people into soldiers of hatred and discrimination against others. this european union was built on the ashes of a terrible war and had to be rebuilt. today, you don't need tanks to destroy the coexistence. with lies and bigotry it is enough to overturn it, so that some try to have all the power and use it against the most vulnerable. over 70 years ago, we began to bring values and interests together to have a present and future for all. today we are approving something very important: parliament has negotiated and approved a programme as a powerful instrument for a more democratic and inclusive union, respectful of the rule of law, with democratic dialogue. we expect information so that the proposals reach all corners of europe - wherever they are needed - not just a few, but everyone, so that everyone knows, so that everyone can try to put forward their proposals and then apply them rigorously so that they are effective. the price of freedom is the eternal vigilance and understanding, even of ourselves, of our ideological biases so as not to weaken pluralism, so as not to go from being persecuted to inquisition. thomas jefferson, that american friend of europe, helps us to understand that we must still support those who sow pluralism, those who make tolerance grow; that we must stand with those who defend fair play, freedom of expression, protection of the vulnerable; that the european house has been rebuilt and that, with these instruments, europeans will live better. we will be more resilient, more solid, to strengthen freedom and democracy.
mr. president, i have to ask you... if we are talking about european values, we must say that a very harmful trend has recently been growing, namely the appropriation of the concept of europeanism by increasingly violent left-wing organisations. instead of balanced debate, parties and organizations that portray themselves as progressive and liberal have now come to refuse to accept that there can be different opinions from their own. the citizens, equality, rights and values programme is a huge fund to support civil society organisations. but unfortunately, based on the experience of the last few years, a significant part of the money will not go to really civil and not really independent organizations, but to political action groups that, through lying reports, biased statements, tendentious lobbying, are actually key players in left-wing ideological warfare. this is also deeply contrary to the real values and interests of the european union, as it creates constant tension between political parties and member states, which weakens the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank you for the debate we have just had on the 'citizens, equality, rights and values' programme and again for your support for the very large increase in the programme's resources. our task now is to finalise the final steps to ensure effective implementation of this programme. as far as the commission is concerned, we have already anticipated as far as possible all the steps needed to be able to distribute the funds and support the beneficiaries of the cerv programme by the end of this year, which was a major request during the trilogue discussions. calls for projects aimed at promoting equality and combating racism, xenophobia and discrimination, supporting the protection of children's rights or combating gender-based violence are currently open. calls for projects concerning the protection of other union values, such as the european memory, citizens' involvement and participation or twinning of cities, are also open. the commission is ready to select quality projects in order to best support civil society organisations and other stakeholders active at local, regional, national and transnational levels. the aim is to support and further develop rights-based, open, democratic, egalitarian and inclusive societies based on respect for the rule of law. i also want to inform you that we are organizing a launch event at the end of may which will combine a high-level political forum and technical meetings. this event will be a moment of exchange with all stakeholders and an important contribution to the future of the programme you care so much about.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading by the committee on legal affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the 'justice' programme and repealing regulation (eu) no 1382/2013 [06834/1/2020 - c9-0138/2021 - 2018/0208 (cod) ] (rapporteurs: heidi hautala, katarina barley) (a9-0146/2021).
rapporteur. – mr president, on 30 may 2018, three years ago, the european commission submitted a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council to establish the justice programme. now, a little less than three years later, we are in a position to adopt the final text. here in the european parliament, preparing this justice programme was a joint effort of the committee on legal affairs (juri) and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). i had the honour and pleasure to be the rapporteur on behalf of juri. the cooperation with the libe rapporteur has always been excellent. i started with mr weidenholzer and i continued with ms barley. i also want to thank the parliament services, especially the juri and libe committees, for their relentless work that, in my view, led to excellent results with the help of the commission. the negotiations with the council and the commission were tough but fair. in the end, we reached an outcome that is not just technical, but mirrors the eu’s values and seeks solutions to concrete problems we are facing. the rule of law and fundamental rights in the eu cannot be defended without a well-functioning, independent and impartial justice system. the programme focuses on persons and entities which contribute to make our common values – equality, rights and rich diversity – alive and vibrant. it is important that all relevant stakeholders, including civil society actors, are involved in the development of the legal system and can access funding. in this case, the justice programme has eur 305 million in total under this programme. it’s just one fifth of the citizens, equality, rights and values programme, but it is essential to guarantee a uniform european sphere of law. this programme has three main objectives: it facilitates and supports judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, promoting the rule of law, independence and impartiality of the judiciary; it supports and promotes judicial training, with a view to fostering a common legal, judicial and rule of law culture; and it facilitates effective and non-discriminatory access to justice for all, and an effective redress, including by electronic, e-justice means. special attention is given to mainstreaming. in the implementation of all of its actions, the programme shall seek to promote gender equality, the rights of the child and child-friendly justice, the protection of victims and the effective application of the principle of equal rights and non-discrimination. while judicial cooperation may not necessarily be in the forefront of the eu’s climate action, parliament secured that this programme ought also to support activities that respect the climate and environmental standards and priorities of the union and the ‘do no harm’ principle of the european green deal. the programme foresees different kinds of actions that are eligible for funding. the programme can be used, for example, for awareness-raising, mutual learning and the exchange of good practices among stakeholders to improve knowledge of union policies and union law. it can also be used for analytical and monitoring activities to improve knowledge and understanding of potential obstacles to the smooth functioning of a european area of justice. it can be used to train relevant stakeholders, and let me mention here that we have new emerging areas of law because our society is evolving in terms of technology and social systems and the like and we have newly emerging areas, for instance environmental justice, which the justice professionals have to understand better. the programme will also be used for developing and maintaining information and communication technology (ict) as well as e-justice tools, which will take into account privacy and data protection. this is a long list, but what makes me particularly happy is to see how the programme clearly acknowledges the role of civil society in this field too. the promotion of the rule of law will benefit from specific support and the commission will report annually on the performance of the programme and the use of the funds for each specific objective, including actions linked to the promotion of gender equality. the interinstitutional negotiations were concluded on 18 december 2020. in february 2021, both coreper, as well as the juri and libe committees in this parliament, accepted the outcome of the negotiations. as a final step, the council adopted its position on 19 april 2021. i can confirm that its position fully reflects the agreement reached and that in the council, all delegations, except for hungary and poland, voted in favour. as the co-rapporteur, i cannot but hope that the regulation is swiftly adopted and enters into force as soon as possible.
member of the commission. – mr president, after the conclusion of a successful trilogue in december last year, i am pleased to talk to you again today about the justice programme. the commission welcomes the agreement reached between the co-legislators on this important programme. this agreement shows that there is a strong determination by the eu institutions to support the further development of a european area of justice. let me once again thank the european parliament for its strong support concerning this file, and notably the rapporteurs, ms hautala and ms barley. the justice programme will support major political actions. to mention a few: the roadmap for a comprehensive european rule of law report, with an eu-wide scope and objective annual reporting; the new judicial training strategy aimed at equipping judges, prosecutors and other justice professionals for the challenges of the 21st century, such as artificial intelligence; and the eu strategy on victims’ rights, focused on empowering victims to report crimes and get the support they need. le programme «justice» soutiendra également la création de systèmes judiciaires plus efficaces et facilitera l’accès des citoyens à la justice par des moyens numériques, ce qui revêt une importance particulière dans le contexte de la crise de la covid—19. il est en effet devenu évident que les citoyens et les entreprises doivent avoir accès à la justice, également en ligne. je vous remercie à nouveau de votre soutien continu eu égard à ce programme et je me réjouis bien entendu de prendre connaissance de vos observations.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, colleagues, i would like to thank the rapporteurs and commissioner reynders for their constructive work on the dossier. the european union has achieved a great deal by building a common area of justice, but we live in a time of serious global challenges that undoubtedly require all member states to do more in the name of the rule of law, an independent judiciary, mutual recognition and trust. it is therefore important to have a well-functioning european area of justice, with maximum ease of access to the judicial system in cross-border legal situations and with active judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. the adoption of the new justice programme is of paramount importance in this regard. with our support, we will confirm our commitment to see this important instrument for the protection of justice, rights and values of the european union put into practice as soon as possible. we know that good cooperation is based on mutual trust. this includes providing support for training and exchange of magistrates, as well as for the development of independent, transparent and efficient national justice systems. the appropriations will be used for activities that protect and strengthen fundamental values such as human rights, the rule of law, freedom, democracy and equality. it is now increasingly important, in the context of the justice programme, to promote the effective application of union legal instruments and to develop e-justice. in modern practice, more active use of electronic means makes it possible to improve the efficiency of judicial proceedings and to increase access to justice for citizens and businesses.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs for the european parliament, heidi hautala and katarina barley, for their work on this very important programme. i believe that we as members of parliament have reached a really good compromise with the council, which ensures that we continue to live in an open, democratic, pluralistic and inclusive society. what's this justice program all about? it is the very heart of european cooperation. european cooperation can only work if we trust each other, and that requires the core of the rule of law to work in all member states. that is the justice system, that is the good work of judges. where there are attacks on civil society, where judges and prosecutors are intimidated, we must respond as a community. we need to work together to make sure that our justice system is protected, and the justice program is a good answer to that. but is that all? i'm not going to. for example, there are strategic lawsuits against civil society organizations, there are strategic lawsuits against journalists -- so-called slapps -- there are strategic lawsuits against public participation, and frankly, this cannot continue. that is why the justice programme is just another building block in our fight for more justice and the rule of law in the european union.
we now continue with the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on legal affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the justice programme (a9—0146/2021).
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the justice programme for 2021-2027 is officially pursuing commendable objectives. with a budget of €305 million, it aims to promote the independence of the judiciary in each member state and to promote access to justice for all, without discrimination of any kind. such objectives can only be agreed. unfortunately, he also pursues more subtle but more formidable goals. it therefore advocates raising awareness of national judges about eu policies, under the pretext of better training. this is tantamount to confusing the obviously necessary legal training of judges with their submission to the union's ideological propaganda, which must be firmly rejected. finally, the justice programme is used to provide massive subsidies to associations and ngos that contribute to the respect of the rule of law, but under the cover of this kind presentation, it is actually a matter of financing george soros' galaxy of associations which, under the pretext of promoting an open society, constantly fight the sovereignty and identity of european nations. i personally cannot accept that and for these reasons i shall vote against the justice programme and the report which praises it.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. we have a program for the justice system for the next few years. what does the program say, in short? more than what it was, but with more money. what was it? blindness in one eye, a violation of the rule of law that the european institutions are supposed to defend. why are you blind? well, ladies and gentlemen, all it takes is for a few judges from poland to send you any protest, and then you turn the whole of the european institutions on its head. there is a special plenary debate, and in the meantime two and a half thousand judges from spain have sent you a protest saying that there is a huge risk that the rule of law, the separation of powers, the independence are being broken in spain. what's the matter? you pretend not to hear it, not to see it. it's not a problem, commissioner. independence from the government? here you go: two weeks ago, a court in germany ruled that children should wear masks, a decision that was different from what the german government wanted. what happened? the politicized german prosecutor's office searched the judge's apartment, confiscated his phone. why would you do that? you can't judge anything other than what the german authorities want. and that's the test of independence, that's the tripartite power you want to defend. president barley said that the rule of law was being broken in poland and she gave as evidence a court ruling that she did not like, because the court's ruling can only be one that the politicians here in the european parliament like. you have created a system of double standards and hypocrisy. in some countries, you can do anything, and in other countries, you can't do anything. this is colonial thinking.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you again for the debate we have just had on the justice programme following the cerv programme, because just like the cerv programme on the defence of rights and values in the union, it is now a matter of finalising the final steps to ensure effective implementation. this is an essential programme for justice. we have also anticipated within the commission, as far as possible, the steps needed to be able to distribute the funds and support the beneficiaries of this programme by the end of the year. calls for projects to promote judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters and to develop judicial training and e-justice are currently open and the commission is ready to select quality projects to further develop a european area of justice based on the rule of law, mutual recognition and trust. i would like to thank the rapporteurs and all the members who have supported this 'justice' programme, as they have supported the cerv programme, both of which really help us to put european values at the heart of our project.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – i shall always support extensive funding for eu programmes that aim to promote fundamental rights, the rule of law and justice. that is why i welcome the allocation of more than eur 300 million to the justice programme, which promotes judicial education and cooperation for judges and legal practitioners across europe, as well as helping people with access to justice. in recent years, the need to protect fundamental rights and democracy in the eu has become more obvious and we need to put our funding where our statements are. through this justice programme 2021-2027, we are proving true commitment to european values. justice, independence of the judiciary and the rule of law constitute the very foundation of our community, and we need to invest in projects, organisations and institutions striving to promote them.
in writing. the rule of law is not just a field of philosophical reflection. it's a principle that, when followed, has a concrete effect on citizens, on their daily lives, on their sense of security. can they be sure of their rights, or can they trust the court's decisions? can they trust the law and its enforcement when they're running their business? these are not abstract questions. in recent years, we have seen a systematic breach of the rule of law in some eu countries. and we see the sad consequences of a situation where the judiciary is stripped of its independence and is reduced to a political tool of the ruling parties. the justice programme we are discussing today is one of the instruments that will support the rule of law. over eur 300 million for entities on the side of the rule of law. i would like to see these measures increased, but we know that some member states in the council have blocked this. and when i listen to the statements of the polish united right or the hungarian fidesz, everything becomes clear. and let's note that the opposition to the program is from politicians of every anti-democratic, extreme formation. and that doesn't surprise me in any way, because to work for the rule of law is to fight their authoritarianism. but there are more of us on the right side. so i have no doubt that the programme will be adopted and will help the rule of law.
madam president! any restriction on civil liberties, including economic freedom, in a state of law must always be constitutional and must always be compensated. the covid-19 pandemic has forced unprecedented restrictions. everyone has suffered, and the tourism industry has been particularly hard hit. owners and employees of travel agencies, hotels, restaurants, carriers, tour guides and pilots were almost completely deprived of their sources of income overnight, and many of them received no assistance. member states are now submitting national recovery plans. so we need to be very careful about how we use these resources to get them to the people who really need them, and tourism needs help very strongly and very quickly, not just to survive, but to be able to change, because our world will never be the same as it was before the pandemic.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. dear colleagues! the modern single market is based on simple principles: fairness, transparency and mutual trust between all its participants. the modern single market must guarantee competitiveness and bring tangible benefits to businesses, workers and consumers, as it is one of the foundations of the european union as a whole. this single programme contains six sources of support so far, with an allocation of over eur 4 billion. i believe that this is a programme that will enable both entrepreneurs and all market participants to exploit synergies efficiently and economically, and that it is a response to the call of business for flexible, transparent and simplified support procedures. the proposal to implement a quantitative performance indicator and monitor the programme is a matter for discussion. is that possible? could this lead to a low efficiency and effectiveness of the projects implemented? i'm sure you can't, because business can't afford low quality. the law of competition is absolute, and today that opportunity is a clear and consistent interpretation of the law and a ruthless fight against red tape and persistent burdens, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises.
president, commissioner, good evening. i have been informed of the situation. i wear an orange tie today because it's our king's birthday and i'm proud to be dutch. i'm proud to be a european. i am proud of the single market. that is the engine of the european union's success. it is good that we are making a lot of money available to make small and mediumsized enterprises more competitive. it is good that we are putting a lot of money into strengthening market surveillance. this is how we can keep unsafe products from outside the european union out of our borders. these products must also comply with european rules. but, commissioner, you know that money alone does not create a market. we find that smes are often unable to make use of the internal market. we've been over this a lot. i am again in favour of binding arbitration so that smes have direct access to the european court of justice and are given a ruling within three months to settle crossborder disputes directly so that the market momentum can be used. i hope you will make some suggestions in this connection.
mr president, the new internal market programme must focus first and foremost on strengthening and developing the capacities of enterprises, obviously with a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, which, as we know very well, have high costs and still have high barriers in the internal market; but let us not forget micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of tourism, enterprises for the social economy. but for this to happen, for a modern internal market, especially after the negative effects of the pandemic, we must have principles of fairness, transparency, fair competition on the market and i must say, commissioner, that we still have problems with those imports from third countries, unverified, uncontrolled, which endanger the health of citizens and i think that we must put emphasis and remove barriers here. there are still problems for smes in public procurement, late payment and other services, which are costly and with a lot of paperwork to be done by smes and small businesses.
mr. chairman, please! i welcome the fact that parliament, the commission and the council have reached agreement on the establishment of a single market programme and that we will be voting on its adoption at this plenary session. the entry into force of the programme will allow the cumulation of activities that have been dispersed so far. it will be a strong financial instrument, ensuring not only the continuity of previous endeavours but also the conditions for new initiatives. i hope that the support under the programme, which is estimated at over eur 4 billion, will benefit not only the many small and medium-sized enterprises in greater poland, where i am an mep, but also all the citizens of my country, because a well-functioning internal market will provide them with a greater choice of high-quality products and services at lower prices. i congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done and on the positive changes he has made to the proposed solutions, and i am in favour of adopting a regulation and implementing the programme as soon as possible.
(starting speech from the microphone) ... we all long for freedom, for freedom, for friends, for family, for health and life. but is the decree the answer to our needs and our longings? or is it just a cover-up of the problems - and that's a mild word - with vaccines in the european union? because are we guaranteeing our citizens universality and justice, equality and solidarity? no, i'm not going. we don't vaccinate because we don't have enough vaccines to vaccinate the people we need. we have to pay for the tests, and it's a lot. to get a certificate that we're cured, we have to go to the doctor, pay, get tested. unfortunately, the regulation does not guarantee the protection of personal data, it does not limit the time, it says in a laconic way that the who will decide when these certificates will expire. we have a difficult decision to make today. we're deciding about our health, our lives, but also about the freedom of our citizens.
madam president, commissioner, dear didier reynders, minister, ana paula zacarias, a year ago, states closed their borders, without any consultation, in response to the pandemic. the certificate is the face of a europe that is moving forward. this is a practical tool to cross borders for those who are vaccinated, those who may test negative, or those who have recovered from covid. a single, free document, in paper or digital format, recognised by the 27 member states. here in strasbourg, in alsace, as in the 40 border regions, it is a document eagerly awaited by workers, but also by students, by young people, by all europeans who would like to be able to travel to europe this summer. one goal: to be ready by the end of june. you can count on our full support, commissioner, madam minister, to achieve this objective, to put free movement back at the heart of the european project.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that haste is never a good adviser, and just as the centralised procurement of vaccines was a great opportunity to show that the european union can be better than the sum of its individual member states, so now, with an emergency procedure, the instrument is being adopted on the wrong basis: the one where the vaccine certificate makes us safe. yet there are still many unknowns about the non-transmissibility of the virus to those vaccinated, about the differences between different vaccines, about the effectiveness on variants, about the duration of protection. even the who has spoken out against this instrument, but we are still accelerating. there is no guarantee that the member states will not adopt quarantines and restrictions anyway, but we are still speeding up. there is no guarantee that member states will not use it to discriminate on access to services, but we are still accelerating. i think that if you accelerate too much, you can lose control and crash. so i'm going to vote no on a tool that risks worsening the pandemic.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. high council! so let's answer a key question: does this certificate mean that the disease will not spread and that we will be protected from infection whether we are vaccinated or not? the answer is simple: no. it is indeed a substitute, an illusion of the freedom we all so desperately want. but today, the fundamental question remains unanswered. when will the cure be found? all of us in the world, in europe, need a vaccine for covid-19, because we are still exposed to the virus, and most importantly, because it is mutating right now. what we need to do first is to use the mechanisms that already exist: very rapid tests that give results in 15 minutes, mass vaccinations, and also treatment protocols that allow us to effectively treat and care for all patients. we're getting hundreds of emails and letters from people who are afraid that this certificate could actually threaten their right to freedom, which is enshrined in many documents, both world and european. we have to take that into account and dispel those doubts. so i think the commissioner should answer the question: when will there be a cure and what has the european union done to make sure that there is a cure as soon as possible?
president, madam minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, like you, i am very much looking forward to travelling in europe again this summer. the european covid certificate allows you to do so in the same safe way in any member state by showing your smartphone or a piece of paper at the border. it's important that not only vaccinated people will be able to travel this summer, especially since not everyone has had access to the vaccine yet. also, anyone who remains immune or who presents a negative test will be able to travel safely. now, to keep travel affordable - and i'm talking to you, commissioner, to you, madam secretary - i want that testing to be free for everyone. we'll keep the information on the certificate to a minimum, just your name and the vaccine or your test result. we do not want a big european database that will keep track of everyone's data. and no, we will not be checking the citizens' lives this summer through the certificate. that way, we maximize privacy.
madam president! well, you're creating a system where, on the one hand, you say vaccinations are not mandatory, and on the other hand, if someone doesn't get vaccinated, they may have limited access to public services, education, health care, travel. and you know, not everyone can be vaccinated today. and you say, "oh, well, if he can't get vaccinated, he can get tested, which is not cheap". so, first you want to restrict people's freedom, and then you say they can buy their freedom back if they're rich enough. what is this if not segregation? and then there's the fact that people under 18 can't get vaccinated, and they probably want to travel, like with their families. the commission proposes to keep these passports after the pandemic, just in case. so you want to collect data on citizens even if there's no threat. do you even understand what freedom is? every day in this house you talk about freedom, but when it comes to real action, you do something completely different.
i have to say, madam president, mr reynders, i will not forget to welcome you today. it is a pleasure to see you again. the commission has put forward a proposal which is somewhat adventurous. it was proposed to recognise unapproved vaccines, it was proposed a tracking procedure which did not guarantee the protection of citizens' data, it was not taken into account the ecdc recommendation on the validity period. it was therefore right and proper that the european parliament should have discussed this proposal again and made corrections. the public debate on such an important issue is necessary and therefore the proposed expedited procedure was problematic from a democratic point of view. the major issues could only be discussed very quickly; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it's not about a vaccine mandate. it is not a question of not being able to travel without the certificate, but of learning from mistakes. for example, at the beginning of the pandemic, we had the coronavirus alert app, which didn't work everywhere in all countries. we'll do better this time. the european union is learning, the vaccine certificate will help us.
mr president, commissioner, we have a real showcase in the eu for the issue of the euro. can we find ways together to work and travel safely and freely across borders, or are we creating a jungle of 27 different certificates? in the future, we must make sure that the eu's single currency certificate is uniform, simple and easy to use. we must not create a testimony for just a few, but it must be available to all so that it can work in the best possible way. so vaccines and tests must be free or at least affordable. it is also important to make a contribution to the promotion of this new instrument, which supports mobility, not restricts it. there is a great deal of misinformation about the purpose of the certificate and any misleading information needs to be corrected.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, one year after the outbreak of the pandemic, we are finally getting to the negotiations on a european document to facilitate free movement within the european union. this means that even a citizen who does not have this document can move freely, but will have to comply with specific measures against epidemics in each member state. that is, it is not a requirement to have this document, but it is an advantage. the european parliament has significantly amended the commission's original proposal, for example by recognising only a vaccine validated by the ema or the who. the holder may also have an antigen test or a pcr test. and of course we expect the member states to pay their citizens for this testing. the third option is a covid-19 recovery certificate. these three options mean: free movement, security and at the same time, they mean freedom from discrimination. that's an argument against all the critics of this measure and i believe it will be passed as soon as possible.
madam president! it is clear that after many months of pandemic, the citizens of the union are tired, tired and determined to return as soon as possible to their normal lives, to freedom of movement, to freedom of travel. the introduction of eu rules on mutual recognition by member states of vaccination certificates, test results or recovery from covid-19 is intended to help us do this. however, when discussing the establishment of this system, we must bear in mind two fundamental issues: firstly, the certificates must be easily accessible to all; secondly, they must not in any way constitute a basis for unequal treatment of citizens. so i want to make this point very clear and very firmly: all member states of the union have an obligation to ensure that citizens have equal access to these certificates and the widest possible access to tests and vaccines. it's your role and your responsibility to the citizens. and don't blame brussels for your own negligence.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. digital giants often operate in a way that is not transparent. and often the european media also describe how they restrict freedom according to very controversial criteria, very controversial, in many controversial cases. in addition, they take over other areas of the economy, the advertising market, and pay taxes that are disproportionate to this activity. and this has been especially evident during the pandemic that we're in, when other companies have been having huge problems, and the digital giants are growing. that is why it is so important that they bear special responsibility in these difficult times. that's why the idea of a digital tax is a very welcome idea, and here we have to thank everyone who worked on this resolution. but there are some doubts. the first concerns the fact that taxes - you remember that we are still bound by the treaties - are a matter for the member states. secondly, you are calling for a change in the voting system so that it is own resources and unanimous voting. and here, too, you are in breach of treaty. that is why it is a very good idea, but it must be worked out to reach agreement with the member states, and not to do everything by force, breaking the treaties and therefore breaking the rule of law. it takes a lot of thought and then you can put in a good solution.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. a preliminary remark: without the unanimity requirement in the council of member states, the eu would already have a digital tax today. the commission and the european parliament have already reached an agreement in 2018. the blocking must be ended once and for all; the veto rights must be abolished. the proposals of the new us president joe biden and his departure from previous red lines give a new impetus to the global negotiations between 139 countries. and that is one reason why the european parliament is pressing once again with the comprehensive catalogue of demands for digital taxation. we need to make sure that the digital giants pay their fair share of taxes. the online world, which is booming, especially because of corona, needs fair competition. the eu needs new own resources. and we need to make sure there's more equity between the big and the small. we need the digital tax. it must be global, and if that is not possible, european. we're going to start again.
madam president, commissioner, i believe that in the last few months we in europe have succeeded in changing the debate on taxation completely. firstly, the approval of next generation eu and the issuing of that 750 billion euro of union debt has required an agreement by the european institutions to strengthen the union's own resources, which have to be used to pay off that debt. in addition, the regulation establishing a recovery and resilience mechanism obliges those states that have been implementing unfair tax policies to review them, and the conditionality 'which will be monitored by the commission' will also be monitored by this parliament. in addition to these developments in europe, in recent days we have also heard about the biden administration's proposal to set that minimum effective rate of 21% on a global scale. it is an announcement which is also revolutionizing the international debate and which requires a european response to this challenge, which provides an opportunity to strengthen fiscal capacity and social policies throughout the union.
madam president, the proposals for a global minimum corporate income tax and the fight against tax havens announced by the biden administration, great as they are, have to be looked at in a sober manner. thankfully, the times are changing and the us is back at the table to discuss a global tax reform. this is something we should commend, and i personally am happy that there is more and more that we can build upon politically with our american partners. still, we cannot be blinded by the light. first, we need to understand that most of the companies we understand as digital giants might not be covered by the biden proposal. furthermore, let us remember that the us and the european tax systems differ. the americans do not have vat so they rely on pit and cit. hence, i hope we find a minimum tax rate that can be accepted by all – us, our companies and the americans with their enterprises. thus, the game is still on. we need to seriously consider how to effectively tax digital giants. we cannot compromise on this principle.
in writing. while small and medium-sized enterprises affected by the covid-19 crisis pay their taxes, the digital giants operating in europe with record sales revenues do not pay a penny! we need to redefine the notions of 'place of business', which in a digitalised economy must be defined in a completely different way than it has been so far, and 'cooperation between many countries' so that taxation of digital businesses is effective, avoids evasion, transfers of profits and benefits everyone. we need a broad international agreement! i am strongly in favour of solutions based on the agreement of sovereign (in tax matters) states acting in their own and common interests. the commission has also concluded that the tax exemption for digital businesses is not a tax advantage. but we cannot accept any dictates, any taking over of the competence of the member states by the community institutions. member states should not be treated as children for whom adults must decide. we can't accept the dictates of the majority either. instead, let us remember what solidarity between the member states and their responsibility for the community as a whole means!
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on russia the case of aleksei navalny, the build-up of troops on the border with ukraine and the russian attack in the czech republic (2021/2642 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, our relations with turkey, from these three events that the president has mentioned, show that our relations with russia continue to deteriorate. these three particular issues that you want us to address today are clear examples of that. first, russia’s destabilisation policy against ukraine, despite the ongoing withdrawal of its military from the ukrainian borders, which is good news, but they were there for a long time with a lot of resources. second, there are worrying internal developments, particularly in the case of mr navalny. yes, he has stopped his hunger strike, but what has happened has happened. third, the recent diplomatic crisis after the finding of criminal acts in the czech republic carried out by russian intelligence services, as the czech republic’s authorities claim. so our relations with russia are once again at a low point. unfortunately, we cannot rule out that this negative trend will continue and that we will reach even more dangerous levels of deterioration. without wanting to feed further a dynamic of escalation – nothing is further from my intention, let that by clear – we are nevertheless showing that we will not accept intimidation tactics and that we have to respond to them if they happen. let’s go first to the russian military aggression against ukraine. the recent military build—up in the proximity of the ukrainian borders – more than 100 000 soldiers – and the illegal annexation of crimea has severely affected and aggravated the security situation in the region. last week, we had an in—depth exchange with the european union foreign ministers and the ukrainian foreign minister kuleba, and our message was clear: the russian actions are completely unacceptable and we firmly support the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine within its internationally recognised borders. russia must cease its provocation and cooperate in a de—escalation of the tensions instead of portraying itself as a neutral mediator. that’s what russia is doing now – they don’t have anything to do with the conflict in ukraine; they are just there to try to mediate in an external problem in which they don’t intervene directly. this pretence must be debunked because, up to now, russia has shown no willingness to end the conflict on terms that would safeguard ukrainian sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence. for russia, the full implementation of the minsk agreements is not a key condition. for us, it is. it’s a key condition for a substantial improvement in our relations. for the european union, an independent and prosperous ukraine is an indispensable element of european stability and security, and that’s why we want ukraine to continue the pace of reform, because there is no better way to face russia than to be a country with a fully democratic system, free of corruption and using our resources, that we are very ready to provide, in order to improve the quality of the governance of the country. looking ahead, we need to continue to pass coordinated messages of steadfast support for ukraine. if we participate in the crimean platform summit this august, we should also stand ready to look into options for additional responses should russia re—escalate or cross a red line. second, on the health situation of the russia opposition politician, alexei navalny, there our voice has been very strong and united. we have made an eu statement, on behalf of the 27, calling on the russian authorities to grant mr navalny immediate access to the doctors that he trusts. the russian authorities are responsible for his safety and health and will be accountable for it. finally, last week, mr navalny was finally taken to a civilian hospital and examined by independent doctors, as we were requiring. soon afterwards, he called off his hunger strike. we will maintain our strong calls – the same message that i went to moscow to tell the russian minister, eye to eye and face to face – for ensuring the right conditions for mr navalny’s speedy recovery, on top of international efforts. as you know, last wednesday thousands of courageous people took to the streets across russia to further demand freedom and justice. instead, in response, the prosecutor’s office asked that mr navalny’s anti-corruption network be qualified as an extremist organisation. i certainly expressed our grave concern about this yesterday. i am quite pessimistic. unfortunately, we cannot expect that things will improve during the next electoral process in russia in the september duma elections, which will bring more limitations to fundamental freedoms in the run-up to these elections. third, on the involvement of the russian military intelligence in the explosion at an ammunition depot in the czech republic in 2014. it’s true that it’s seven years ago, but even so it happened. the conclusion by the czech authorities that officers of the russian military intelligence, the gru, perpetrated this attack, causing the deaths of two czech citizens, are extremely serious. the fact that it happened seven years ago doesn’t decrease the gravity of these facts. this is not about military intelligence. this is about a grave criminal offence that runs counter to russia’s international obligations and such behaviour cannot be accepted. that’s why i have to insist once again on the idea that we have to use the three verbs that i have used: to contain, to engage and to push back. i will go back to this idea after listening to all of you. let me clearly state our full support and solidarity with the czech republic. the asymmetric response by russia – expelling diplomats and now threatening a limitation in the number of local staff – is being met by a determined response from the european union and its member states. to finish, let me remind you that our policy framework towards russia, based on the five principles, continues. we will work on internal resilience, fighting against hybrid and cyber threats, strengthening our engagement with our eastern neighbours, including the russian people, stepping up support to russian civil society and human rights defenders, and by enhancing people—to—people contact. we will continue to signal to russia that we are ready to engage in areas of clear interest. this is also true. we have to engage. i said contain, push back and engage, because we need to engage with russia in areas which are clearly of shared interest. i mentioned the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa) and i can add climate change. we need to maintain channels of communication with moscow. i am ready to do so, and we also stand ready to improve relations, if needed and if possible, with the russian government if they show a genuine willingness to do so, and certainly with full respect for our values, principles, and interest. to finish, i have to say that, unhappily, i see a worrying trend from the russian authorities that seems to be choosing deliberately to deepen the confrontation with the west – with us – including through continued attacks of disinformation and other negative activities. we must therefore define a modus vivendi that will avoid permanent confrontation with a neighbour who seems to have decided to act as adversary. i am looking forward to listening to you and to knowing your positions, that i know will be many and varied, and to taking some stock of them in my concluding remarks, because i think that we have to be prepared for a long and hard period in our relations with russia. i thank you, madam president and members of the european parliament, for giving me this opportunity. let’s make good use of it.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, recently two legal decisions were taken in russia. first, the moscow prosecutor declared illegal the removal of the monument of feliks dzierżyński, the head of the secret police. second, the prosecutor labelled navalny’s anti-corruption foundation an extreme organisation and called to suspend its activities. the recent developments in russia are a clear signal that the kremlin is returning to soviet—era practices, both domestically – locking up and compromising the health of alexei navalny – and abroad – conducting assassinations and explosions in eu member states and amassing troops at the ukrainian borders. the eu and us must recognise that the kremlin’s provocations will not cease. for this reason, we must clearly and explicitly communicate to russia the high price it will have to pay for overstepping the deadline set by international law. the kremlin must respect the decision of the european court of human rights and immediately and unconditionally release alexei navalny. the involvement of the russian intelligence services in murders and terror acts in the eu member states must be stopped. to conclude, i want to stress that the leading european powers must agree to grant ukraine the nato membership action plan it was promised in bucharest in 2008. we must also assist ukraine in military terms, in strengthening its capabilities and providing defensive weapons.
on behalf of the s&d group. your highness! if this discussion had been 20 years ago, most of us would have been talking about the need to develop cooperation with russia. it's hard to deny that we have a lot of common interests with russia, with this country. unfortunately, a dozen years ago, russia chose confrontation over cooperation we remember putin's speech in munich in 2007, we remember georgia, we remember the aggression against ukraine, we remember countless air and sea provocations, numerous threats and aggressive statements. we know about the campaign of lies, disinformation and attempts to corrupt politicians and parties in our countries. by committing aggression against ukraine, russia has violated fundamental principles of international law, thereby erecting a wall between itself and the rule of law states. until russia withdraws from crimea and eastern ukraine, normal cooperation will not be possible. everyone loses, but mostly ordinary russians. the brutal policy affects them too. the union must not only react but also prevent, and this requires unity and a clear price that russia will inevitably pay for further acts of lawlessness. it's a situation that no one can enjoy, but we didn't create it. we all have a responsibility to adopt a credible and forward-looking strategy towards russia. it should include the possibility of reaching an agreement, but only if russia stops the lawlessness, removes its effects and is ready to cooperate loyally.
thank you, representative wallace, but i want to make it very clear that there is no room in this chamber for intermittent shouting or any other kind of shouting.
madam president, mr borrell, one of the core values of the eu is respect for human rights. freedom of speech is elementary for true democracy. in my country, the netherlands, the government tried to silence critical members of parliament too, recently. this is a big scandal. some would say we should clean up our act first before we lecture others. should we be silent when opposition in russia is silenced, because we are not perfect? no, of course not. we should raise our voices whenever and wherever we can, because we can. mr navalny chose to speak up, no matter the consequences. it almost killed him. right now he is in jail. we have to speak up for him. whatever the consequences, he needs our support. the eu must show courage and true leadership whenever and wherever human rights are violated. we have the obligation to tell it like it is, not only to putin, but to xi jinping, and erdoğan as well. mr borrell, we have to act now.
i have to say, madam president, what we have seen in recent weeks of russia's unprovoked military advance into ukraine - over 100 000 soldiers with equipment - has not happened in europe since 1938, as i recall, in peacetime. it wasn't just tanks and soldiers, it was everything you need for an invasion - from pioneers to paramedics, from electronic warfare to rocket launchers. and we wondered, does he just want to threaten because some pro-russian oligarchs in ukraine are finally getting their asses handed to them? or does he want to take back the already occupied territories around donetsk and luhansk, where he has just created hundreds of thousands of new citizens by distributing russian passports? or to establish a land link to the occupied crimea via mariupol or even march to the dnieper? in view of these threatening alternatives, i wish the foreign affairs council had been clearer last monday. despite this potential for aggression, sanctions are not yet necessary, but it is necessary to make clear what will follow in the event of a new attack - certainly a halt to oil and gas imports and possibly a cut-off from the swift payment system. and the oligarchs who are the system's founders must finally be recognized as such. these are not private individuals with a little money left over to invest with us. they are essential to the survival of the system and must therefore be sanctioned. and because ukraine has an individual and collective right to self-defence under article 51 of the un charter, i thank all those who supply defensive weapons to ukraine. it's a shame we're back to this.
madam president, mr. high representative, i have to ask you to stop this. the mobilization of russian troops on the ukrainian-russian border was reminiscent of the 2014 crimean intervention and raised concerns about the future of our partner the future of ukraine. the euromaidan protests of seven years ago were a clear expression of the expectations of the ukrainian people, who decided that they wanted to be part of the european value system and the european welfare sphere. since 2017, an association and trade agreement has been in force between us, the european union, and ukraine. it fundamentally changed the flow of commerce in this country. today, the european union not russia, but the european union is ukraine's most important partner. as is usual in a free trade area, disputes arise, but the characteristic is that these disputes are resolved in a civilised manner. in this respect, we can say that ukraine has become part of our world. russia doesn't want to be part of this world. we have, of course, reservations about the manner and pace of institutional reform in ukraine. but it's hard to think about tomorrow when the war is knocking on the door. he is a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. we cannot afford to be indifferent to this. we must support ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity in the face of the threats to it.
madam president, this is senor borrell. you've presented a huge catalogue of expectations for what russia is going to do. i agree with that, but i'm running out of questions and answers, so what are we supposed to do? why are we once again yielding to the threat of aggression? you've presented the information that we're not going to do anything, euphemistically saying that we don't want to escalate. i hope these aren't rhetorical questions. meanwhile, putin has shown russia and the world his ability to mobilize and his ability to blackmail us. he forced president zelensky to ask for direct talks, he forced president biden to propose an old cold war summit on ukraine. it has made the berlin format, the normandy format, neutral: berlin and paris have, in a curious way, called for de-escalation. ms ursula von der leyen refused to visit ukraine at the height of the crisis. so putin has proved that he can do a lot, and he has shown our indolence. why don't we learn from the mistakes of appeasement? there is no lack of instruments to deter an aggressor, there is a lack of will and determination to act. why, señor borrell, why, mrs ursula von der leyen, do we not have the will and the determination to act to stop the aggressors?
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! i wanted to remind you that europe has the tools to stop russia's aggressive policy and also to protect navalny's life. we have the tools, we just have to use them. therefore, i would like to remind - and i would also remind the commission - that in february, the european court of human rights in strasbourg ruled that alexei navalny should be released and treated outside russia. we should demand this loudly, because russia is a signatory to the european charter of human rights. secondly, alexei navalny, being here in parliament - this was his last presence in brussels before returning to russia - he said very clearly in the international affairs committee meeting what the essence of the problem in russia is, namely the power of the oligarchs. they are the protective umbrella for putin and the foundation of the autocratic rule of putin's regime in russia. 90% of russians will accept tough sanctions against the oligarchs, because that's the source of their security, if we cut the oligarchs off from money. we need to do it as soon as possible and we demand hard and strong sanctions against the oligarchs. finally, the third point is the oil and gas market. it cannot be separated from democratic principles. it cannot be separated from our international priorities. i would like to remind you of the words of donald tusk, the head of the european people's party, who said it outright and repeated it several times: if you want to stop russian aggression against ukraine, you have to stop nord stream 2. i repeat: if you want to save navalny's life, if we want to stop russia's aggressive policy, we must stop nord stream 2 and impose sanctions on the oligarchs.
madam president! resolutions and debates are important, but if they do not lead to effective, clear and united action, they are merely notes on paper, and are worth what that paper is worth. they are also a sign of weakness, a sign that we are not able to act effectively. it is good that we are debating this, it is good that this resolution will be adopted, but it is necessary that effective, clear action be taken at this moment. we can't pretend that the facts are different than they are. the war in ukraine is a war that is taking place directly outside the borders of the european union. nord stream 2 is not a business project, it's a political project, we've been talking about it for a long time and everyone knows it. it's time to stop pretending that reality is something other than what it is. the suspension of nord stream 2 will show putin that the european union is not helpless and can act effectively.
madam president! your highness! i think you're listening to us and you've heard that there is one guideline that comes out of this important resolution, one mechanism and one method to deal with russian aggression. namely, to stop work on the completion of nord stream 2. over the years, we've passed more resolutions, and we've got 95% of nord stream 2 built. and let's be honest, it's being built by germany, the largest country in europe. it's being built by the european union, with every resolution that speaks and mourns russia's aggression. this is confirmed by the words of the german president, who says that it is compensation for the second world war. this is confirmed by angela merkel's interviews, who says: what is worse about the gas that flows through nord stream 2 than the gas that flows through ukraine? it's time to stop nord stream 2.
mr president, commissioner, as a member of the delegation to india, as a portuguese member of parliament from porto, and as a portuguese who was the first european to reach india by sea and to establish a relationship of more than 500 years of deep intimacy, i must say that i consider that, of the priorities of the portuguese presidency, this is certainly the happiest. and it's the happiest one, because on the one hand, with brexit, we no longer have a privileged interlocutor for india, which was the uk, and we have to occupy that space, and on the other hand, because the advances of china, which is a dictatorship and has an aggressive expansionist strategy, imply that there is a geopolitical balance in asia, in the indo-pacific region, and therefore india is a key partner. and it is a key partner also because it is the largest democracy in the world and therefore it is in a position to represent values which are fundamental values for those who have the dignity of the human person first. and that is why it will be essential that at this summit we have strengthened our solidarity with the indian authorities at this difficult time of the pandemic that has now hit the indian subcontinent. it is essential that this solidarity be the hallmark of a long-term relationship which starts from the porto summit.
mr president, the portuguese presidency and prime minister antónio costa made the right choice in giving priority to india and in convening a virtual summit between the european union and the indian union on 8 may. indeed, it is time to strengthen our strategic partnership with india, a friendly country and an increasingly important power in the indo-pacific region and the global economy. and there is much we can do together in bilateral and multilateral cooperation, in the field of development, in combating climate change, in regulating globalisation, in defending security and peace. but it is also time to take on the ambition of negotiating with india not only an investment agreement but also a trade agreement in favour of our economies and sustainable development. but with the terrible tragedy that the pandemic is causing in india, the priority can only be one: getting all the support possible to india in terms of medical care, equipment, civil protection and oxygen. the aid measures already announced by the european union are important, but more will have to be done. this is the moment to give a living testimony of solidarity with india.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, more than before, the eu and india now realise the convergence of our shared interest to strengthening a rules-based world order. we are working now on the translation of this realisation into concrete joint initiatives and actions. the connectivity partnership to be concluded next week is an excellent tool in this respect. there are also other examples in line with your report. we intend to coordinate positions and initiatives in the un world trade organization (wto) and the g20. we intend to work jointly on both the reform of the world health organization to enhance global health preparedness and the wto reform. and, as called for in your report, we are working with india to explore the feasibility of resuming trade negotiations and of launching investment negotiations. we hope to be able to work with india as well towards a bilateral agreement on the protection of geographical indications. we also expect india to address the numerous trade barriers our companies are facing in the indian market. with a deepening of our partnership comes the responsibility but also the opportunity to address more sensitive issues. as many of you have mentioned, human rights and democracy should be at the heart of eu-india relations, and there lies an important role for the european parliament and the lok sabha in india. i trust that enhanced and structured parliamentary exchanges will help to foster greater mutual understanding and reinforce democratic structures.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, wednesday, 28 april 2021, and the final vote will be held tomorrow, thursday, 29 april 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. india is the world's largest democracy and an important economic partner of the union. we should therefore do our utmost to build a good, values-based relationship with india. there are a number of areas with great potential for cooperation. our priorities in our relations with india are tackling climate change, respecting human rights, working for security and peace, and cooperating on health and fighting covid-19. we should join forces wherever possible and pursue common interests, for example by coordinating positions and initiatives in international fora such as the un and the wto. but as we build our relationship with india, we also have to look at the issues. the situation of religious minorities in india is a cause for concern. it is necessary to guarantee the right to the free exercise of one's religion and to prevent discrimination and violence against religious minorities. the foreign contribution act may also be a problem. we are getting signals that it may be hindering or even driving out some civil society and human rights organizations from india. these are important issues that we should raise in our dialogue with india. i therefore agree that there should be a regular dialogue between the eu and india on human rights, so that we can jointly address the challenges and provide the support that india needs.
the following is the agenda for the debate on the recommendation for a second reading by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the council's first reading position on the european parliament and council regulation on the prevention of the dissemination of terrorist content online (14308/1/2020 - c9-0113/2021 - 2018/0331 ((cod)) (rapporteur: patryk jaki) (a9-0133/2021).
rapporteur. – madam president, we live in difficult times. the terrorist threat to our community is still present and it is our responsibility to keep citizens safe and to prevent terrorist attacks. however, in order to do so, it is necessary to understand the terrorists’ modus operandi and its evolution. as an example, i will use the long—standing statement of umar patek, the organiser of terrorist attacks on bali in which more than 200 people were killed. he said, during his trial, for those who do not know how to commit jihad, they should understand that there are several ways to know jihad. this is not the stone age. this is the internet age. we have facebook, we have twitter. as he said, this is what happened. the internet has become the most important safe haven and tool for terrorists today. on the internet, terrorists recruit by spreading propaganda, including among children and young people. they provide attacks and violence from the internet, spreading propaganda to youngsters and children. there they show their attack, call for attack and spread a radical agenda. as a continuation, let me show some examples. in 2020, facebook removed 43.4 million pieces of content of a terrorist nature or containing incitement to attack. in the previous year, it was 25.5 million pieces of content, so as you can see, it is a significant increase with the advent of pandemics and people being locked in their homes. in 2019, twitter reported that it blocked more than 300 000 accounts linked to a terrorist organisation or used to spread terrorist propaganda both linked to radical islam and to left- and right-wing extremes. in 2016, it was 100 000 accounts, so one can see an upward trend. today, terrorist groups have their own media, magazines, editors. the internet and modern technology have allowed terrorist groups to post content that they fully control. a staff of specialists from such terrorist groups prepares professional information and propaganda campaigns, documentaries and magazines published online. they’ve directed executions. that is why our response was needed. the regulation will allow member state to immediately remove terrorist content. it has introduced, among others, the principle of one hour, which means that the most dangerous content will be removed as soon as possible after publication. for example, member states finally received a working tool to stop live broadcasting from a terrorist attack or mass shooting. this is a groundbreaking project and the first in the history of the eu that implements such a powerful tool in cross-border cooperation between member states in this area. one country will have the right to send a removal order to another country. the order will apply to everyone in the eu, including those outside the eu. failure to comply with the order will result in large financial penalties. the new regulation will help to counter the spread of extremist ideology online. the regulation will ensure that what is illegal offline is illegal online. removal orders can be sent by any member state to any online platform established within the eu. however, according to the compromise reached, the authorities of the member states where the content host is located will have 72 hours to analyse and possibly challenge the withdrawal order if it sees, for example, a clear violation of freedom of expression. in addition, we are carrying a new framework for the cooperation between public institutions and the private sector. we will all now have a duty to act in solidarity to tackle terrorism. this regulation will ensure that the online platforms play a more active role in detecting terrorist content online and that such content is removed within a maximum of one hour. at the same time, potential threats to freedom have been removed. there will be no mandatory filtering of the internet. new safeguards for freedom of speech, freedom of press and media, as well as freedom for legal content, for instance, journalists’ research, artists, educational content, too. moreover, it safeguards content which represents an expression of polemics or controversial views in the course of public debate. it was a very difficult project. thanks to the involvement of parliament’s excellent negotiation team, whom i would like to thank, it was possible to reach a compromise. i would also like to thank the commissioner and the council. i strongly believe that the terrorist content (tc) regulation is a good and balanced text which balances security and the freedom of speech and expression on the internet, protecting legal content and access to information for every citizen in the eu. it is a new tool based on mutual cooperation and trust between states fighting together in the one cause against terrorists. the europe union today has gained a powerful new tool to fight terrorists, and this is very good information for our community.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commissioner is here. the words of the rapporteur here: 'everything that is forbidden in the real world must also be forbidden in the virtual world' are extremely important. i think that this wonderful space of freedom that is the internet cannot be an instrument and a tool for the villains, the criminals, the terrorists who through the internet sometimes shape the minds of young people, women, children, forcing them, urging them to commit terrorist acts. the democratic states, europe cannot be defenseless here. this space of freedom cannot be used, as i said, by these barbarians to murder our citizens. i think that the representatives of all the countries represented here in this room have martyrs like my compatriot piotr stanic murdered in pakistan, in which case the internet was also used to inform the world about this crime. we remember the 30 coptic christian martyrs murdered by islamic jihadists, barbarians in libya. today, european states, special services and police have a very good instrument in the form of this regulation. and i just want to say, patrick, great job.
madam president, a european law requiring platforms to remove their terrorist content within one hour is a historic step forward. europe is thus sending a distrust signal to islamists, their accomplices, but also to social networks which have hitherto masked their guilty passivity and their concern for profit behind the screen of an allegedly absolute freedom of expression. and i want to say it here, strongly and solemnly: i still cannot understand why it took until the international reaction to the murder of french school teacher samuel paty, beheaded by an islamist who was drinking a bottle of hateful content, for certain political groups - i am thinking of the greens and the socialists - to finally agree to join us in this fight. how many more messages of hatred, how many more revolting threats would it have taken for some politicians, whose eyes were clearly clouded by their ideology, to resolve to face reality? the european regulation is there. the political fact is important, necessary, salutary, but the struggle that has had to be waged to achieve it says a lot about the state of our democracy. the challenge we will have to face together to protect the people is obviously only just beginning.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm from austria. in our capital, vienna, there was a devastating terrorist attack in the autumn. france has recently experienced terrorist attacks. the whole of europe has been affected by terrorist attacks, and we know that our european way of life, the european model of life, does not suit everyone. we know that social networks, that online networks have many positive aspects on the one hand, but on the other hand they are also being abused by criminal networks and here particularly by terrorist networks to recruit and to inform each other. of course, we in europe have a responsibility to ensure that this abuse does not take place. we're protecting lives and bodies. but what we also have to protect is what we defend against terrorism, as the european way of life: these are the rights of freedom, this is human dignity, this is the rule of law, this is liberal democracy, and this includes the values of the enlightenment, which also includes freedom of opinion, which also includes freedom of speech. and to do that, the only way to do it is to exclude one and defend the other, if in the end it is always a human being who looks in doubt whether a content is terrorist content, and if the legal path is open to those who publish it. and one of the values of enlightenment is that publishing comes with responsibility, something that we need to understand more and more in the internet age.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear members of parliament, in 2002, al-qaeda terrorists beheaded american journalist daniel pearl and posted the video online: the first video of a murder posted by terrorists, the first of many. in 2014, daesh terrorists murdered journalist james foley and posted the video online. they murdered journalists steven sotloff and kenji goto and shared the videos online – professionally-produced videos, the union of high technology and low barbarism. after these attacks, several news agencies stopped hiring freelance reporters in the region. journalists are among the first targets and first victims of terrorists, and freedom of expression is their first casualty. or take the murder of samuel paty, a teacher of history, geography and civics. his brutal murder was a direct attack on our values, our rights and our freedoms. the freedom of expression and information. the right to education. the freedom of thought, conscience and religion. the terrorists posted the picture of his dead body online. terrorists exploit our fundamental rights against us. they abuse our open society and our freedoms, to spread fear and terror and ultimately to destroy those freedoms. terrorists abuse the internet, which should be a tool for progress, and abuse it as an instrument of barbarity to spread death and destruction. this we can never ever accept. this is what we said loud and clear in today’s debate. and we say that, with the regulation we debated today – a firewall against terrorist content online, to take it down and to stop it spreading – together we strike a major blow against terrorists. again, i would like to thank the parliament, especially the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the good cooperation for this achievement.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. 2020 has been a very difficult year for europe. the pandemic has killed thousands and caused economic collapse in many countries. despite the lockdown and restrictions, the terrorist activity has not been contained. there have been several attacks, including in france and austria. islamic terrorists are still active in europe. isis cells and al-qaeda-linked organizations such as the syrian hts are pouring their propaganda online, radicalizing the youth. i am glad that the union has taken action on this matter. today we are debating a new tool that offers new possibilities for the fight against radicalism, a tool based on european community, trust and support. the cross-border order to remove radical content and terrorist propaganda is finally coming into force. it's a symbol of mutual trust between nations, as opposed to the threat that affects us all, regardless of national borders. i look forward to the next solution similar to those adopted today, for cross-border evidence collection in electronic crimes.
in writing. when terrorism threatens our security, our rights and freedoms, it is important to adopt appropriate clear, coherent and harmonised tools to remove terrorist content from the internet, to prevent the use of the internet to disseminate terrorist content. however, it is necessary to ensure the security of online services while guaranteeing full respect for fundamental rights, i.e. freedom of expression and the acquisition and dissemination of information. the adopted text defines what constitutes terrorist content online, provides for legal remedies in case of blocking or removal of content and prevents social media platforms from becoming censors. the new rules require the authority responsible for issuing removal orders for terrorist content, controlling cross-border orders from another member state, supervising measures implemented by a hosting provider to prevent the appearance of terrorist content on its services, and imposing sanctions for non-compliance with the obligations arising from the regulation. the model proposed in the regulation is based on cooperation between the competent state authorities and hosting service providers. the key obligation imposed on hosting service providers under the draft law is to remove or disable access to terrorist content within one hour of receiving an order from the competent authority. the second important solution is for hosting providers to take measures to prevent the dissemination of such content.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism on the rights and obligations of rail passengers (12262/1/2020 - c9-0011/2021 - 2017/0237 ((cod)) (rapporteur: mr bogusław liberadzki) (a9-0045/2021).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 29 april 2021.
the next item is the debate on the following oral questions to the council by lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, eugene tomac, brandon benifei, dragoš pîslaru, elena lizzi, katrin langensiepen, elżbieta rafalska, sandra pereira on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs on the european child guarantee (o-000025/2021 - b9-0012/2021) (2021/2605 (rsp)) and the oral question to the commission by lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, eugene tomac, brandon benifei, dragoš pîslaru, elena lizzi, katrin langensiepen, elżbieta rafalska, sandra pereira on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs on the european child guarantee (o-000025/2021 - b9-0012/2021) (2021/2605 (rsp)) and the oral question to the council by lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, eugene tomac, brandon benifei, dragoš pîslaru, elena lizzi, katrin langensiepen, elżbieta rafalska, sandra pereira on behalf of the committee on housing and social affairs on the european child guarantee (o-000025/2021 - b2-0026/2021 (o-0013/2021 (rsp)) (2021/2605).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there is no greater priority than the fight against child poverty, exclusion and discrimination. i am very pleased and sincerely hope that the child guarantee will meet the expectations it sets and that it will be an instrument that will really give a chance, an equal chance, to all children living in europe. this is our future. investing in the future of children is investing in the future of the world, and we must do everything we can to make this instrument effective and a real problem solver. is that possible? it is possible. i'm sharing with you my own experience: when i was prime minister of the polish government, we introduced the 500+ family program, a simple universal program that supports families and gives equal opportunities to all children. this programme has changed the lives and destinies of thousands of families and thousands of children in poland, and i believe that this guarantee, which we are working on right now, will also change the destinies of millions of children in europe.
madam president! i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! this is another debate about child poverty and social exclusion. there are examples of poverty so extreme that it is shocking, dramatic. we are moved, our hearts are broken, because no one is indifferent to this poverty, to the fact that this poverty has affected so many millions of children for so many years. but we are politicians and we are the ones who have to change the reality. it is up to us to answer whether we have done everything to ensure that poverty has not existed in the european union for years - and it still exists, whether we have any guarantee that it will change, and what is needed to change this poverty. in the case of children, if we want to improve their well-being, we can say, access to health, education, education and again education. but if we're going to say something to politicians, what do we need to say to governments? it's called determination. determination to fight this poverty and not postpone it until after the crisis, when there is more economic growth. we must say here and now: enough of the poverty of children in europe!
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 29 april 2021. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. both the ecr and poland strongly support these actions which are aimed at combating corruption and various criminal situations in the european union. there is certainly a lot of wealth, a lot of money, on the eu market, but there are also fraudsters and money must be devoted to those eu bodies that are able to combat these situations that are a disgrace to the european union. and there are situations like this. i think we can follow poland's lead. poland is a country where the mafia has been fighting for several years. we have a lot of money for families, for the unemployed, we help families with many children, we help the elderly. our budget is richer. the same will be true in the european union. if we manage the resources we have from the multiannual financial framework and the reconstruction programme well, if we use them well and the eu institutions make sure that they allocate the money well, on the terms that the european union and the individual countries will develop, then the union will be richer and we will all be rich. we support all these kinds of activities.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in the light of the military activities of the russian federation in countries directly bordering the european union, we must strengthen our policy which will add value to the european defence industry. i welcome the creation of a european defence fund, the main purpose of which will be to support investment in joint defence research and development. it's good that we've reached a compromise on this issue. it will have a positive impact on strengthening the competitiveness and innovation of the european technological and industrial base, and will strengthen national markets in the defence sector. the funds are good news for companies working with or dependent on the defence sector, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, which have not benefited from similar programmes so far. we must not forget that the defence industry in europe is not just the big companies in france, the netherlands or germany. these are also smaller companies from central and eastern europe with a high r&d potential. the fund's resources must therefore be distributed fairly so that everyone has an equal chance of being involved in the ambitious objectives of european defence policy.
in writing. today's debate concerns the regulation establishing the european defence fund (edf), the record of which is the result of years of work and a compromise reached in interinstitutional negotiations (including between member state governments in the eu council). poland has actively participated in its preparation and supports the content of the regulation as agreed between member states and in the trilogue with parliament and the commission. the fund will primarily fund joint research and development in defence equipment and technologies and capacity building in multinational projects of eu priority. the fund will provide an alternative, cost-effective and risk-minimising mechanism for the procurement of military equipment through european military-technical cooperation. it is also the first time in eu history that the eu's common budget has supported defence-related research and development. it is important that eu-based companies can count on the support and development of new technologies in the important defence sector. the edf is a key component of the eu's defence policy and is the main instrument for the implementation of the eu's defence policy.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. latin america is losing the battle against the pandemic. who warns: the epicenter of the coronavirus pandemic is shifting to south america. "south america could be economically set back by a decade due to the coronavirus". the epicentre of the coronavirus in latin america is entering its peak phase. these are just a few examples of the headlines that have been coming out of the world in recent weeks. it is a dramatic situation, but when i listen to at least some of the speakers, i get the impression that it is a tone of reasoning, of complaining, of teaching. we are too quick to forget what the situation was like a year ago in lombardy, what the situation was like in paris, in spain, in lisbon. today, latin america is experiencing a truly tremendous upheaval. but we need real help. what my predecessor, mr. richard czarnecki, said. we europeans should do everything we can today to prevent latin america from being returned to the sphere of influence of china and russia. and this is the reasoning that is so stupid and so forgetful that the amazon, manaus, patagonia, paraguay, ecuador, peru, are not paris, are not lisbon, are not rome. this is a difficult situation indeed. this is a much-needed help. less politically correct reasoning!
mr president, according to various human rights reports, blasphemy laws in pakistan are often exploited to settle personal rivalries or to persecute religious minorities, especially christians. pakistan’s centre for social justice stated that 2020 mark the highest number of accusations under blasphemy laws. many of these accused people have been murdered before the trials were over. i believe that through these laws, pakistan is actively limiting freedom of expression, of religion and of belief. therefore, i’m asking the pakistanis authorities to stop these infamous acts, revise the blasphemy law and above all, ensure lasting security for all citizens of the country. i call on the government to immediately and unconditionally release the christian couple from detention. finally, i urge the eu and the other relevant external action bodies to address human rights and freedom of speech concerns with pakistani authorities.
mr. chairman, please! the blasphemy law - especially in pakistan - is becoming a fundamentalist, a dangerous custom that is tormenting thousands of christians around the world. we are facing a clear case of christianophobia, which is why today we must call for the release of prisoners of faith. i want this debate to also be one big message to christians that they are not alone, that we remember them, that we pray for them, that we also help, that we try to bring it through church structures, for which i want to thank ngos like aid to the church in need and caritas, and to thank the hungarians for what they do. they have a special secretary of state for the defense of christians. that's a big deal. but what does the union do? today we need to think about what we can do to make this draconian law in pakistan immediately repealed. we have the instruments, we have many instruments, above all economic instruments, and they must be used in the defence of christians, in the defence of religious minorities. that's why i want to say that this debate is so important, because it should be extended to other countries as well. we also have christianophobia in europe, in this europe, particularly in france, where there have been over 200 attacks on churches in the last few months. this is unacceptable, and we must stand up and, on the basis of the christian values on which europe was founded, we want to oppose it.
mr. speaker, the house of lords! we are following with horror the story of the pakistani christian couple shafqata emmanuel and shagufta kausar. these poor, illiterate parents of four children, whose father is a cripple and is confined to a wheelchair, were accused of blasphemy. it's a cruel law that gives the muslim majority a tool to control and keep the entire population in fear. asia bibi was held in prison for many years on the same charge of blasphemy. there are many others in pakistan who have been accused of blasphemy and have been imprisoned. the story of this couple should not end with a few speeches in their defense in this house. let us remember that the european union is pakistan's most important trading partner. pakistan benefits from a zero duty on two thirds of all products imported into the european union. also under gsp+ pakistan has to effectively implement 27 core international conventions on human and labour rights. the union therefore has the power to exert pressure, and should do so, when christians and other religious minorities are persecuted and killed for their faith.
in writing. harnessing the digital potential is key to improving the lives of community citizens in many areas, including those where this has not been the case before. the regulation establishing the 'digital europe' programme is a comprehensive action on the digitalisation of europe, focusing on important aspects such as cybersecurity and artificial intelligence. the main pillars of the programme must be coherent with each other, as this is the only way to contribute to sustainable digital social and economic development. the digital europe programme has very ambitious objectives and close cooperation between member states is needed to achieve them effectively. it is also worthwhile to draw on the experience gained in this area in individual countries. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. from our point of view, this programme provides an opportunity to continue the course we have taken and strengthens our conviction of its effectiveness. the digital revolution is happening. the european union cannot be left behind in this global race. the successful implementation of the digital europe programme is the way to make the eu a leader in the implementation and use of digital solutions in various aspects of our lives.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. the life programme is an instrument for achieving environmental and climate objectives. it should be designed to generate new solutions, it should be conducive to a just transformation. the implementation of this will be essential for the implementation of the eu biodiversity strategy. to that end, objective and unambiguous criteria for the evaluation of applications should be established, in order to ensure the transparency of the evaluation rules and the work of the experts, and should ensure geographical balance. did you notice, commissioner, that in previous years the vast majority of the funds went to only a few countries? nevertheless, life is certainly the most important instrument to support the conservation of nature and biodiversity, which we care so much about. it would be good if it took into account geographical balance and promoted a just transition, and also took into account local conditions. this is very important when we look at the implementation of this program by local conditions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased that the life programme has made such a significant budgetary leap of over 60% at this stage and we also agree that more than 5 billion of the budget is being devoted to the areas of biodiversity, the circular economy, climate change and the energy transition. the life program is 100% necessary: the commission has also proposed that the european environment agency should be established. however, we must also tackle the indirect factors, those having to do with our production and consumption habits. so we must move decisively towards the paradigm shift of the union's green deal: all sectoral policies are also environmental policies. in this sense, when the life programme recognises the concept of one health, that human health also depends on environmental health, it is on the right track. but perhaps we are not being demanding enough in reformulating the cap according to this new paradigm.
mr president, commissioner sinkevičius, the life programme, the agreement on which we are discussing today, is one of the european union's flagship actions, as it has so far led to the resolution of the most serious environmental problems throughout the european region. it has even acted as a catalyst for mobilising funding from different sources, in addition to european support, something we are all working towards. i welcome and point out that the budget for this new life programme is 60% higher than in the previous phase and, as life is now a valuable tool for local government, it is now necessary at this mature stage to sign projects which visibly improve the environment and the quality of life of citizens. one of the qualities of the life programme is its flexibility, which brings it closer to the citizens. so now is a very big opportunity to see small-scale projects that are important to local communities. such projects are supporting renewable energy sources, waste management with an emphasis on the circular economy, preserving and protecting biodiversity, but also improving air quality, a problem that is very much present in my city, in the region of western thessaloniki. we need, mr sinkevičius, a lot of targeted life. the fight against climate change cannot be achieved on the planet, it cannot be achieved in europe, without the mobilisation and contribution of our citizens. that is why life is a very useful tool and, in view of orthodox easter, i thank you all very much for the work you have done to ensure that this tool is delivered to the local authority.
mr. chairman, please! i welcome the interinstitutional agreement on the life programme. i mostly support its environmental goals, the circular economy, energy efficiency, and most importantly, biodiversity. however, it should be noted that the european discourse is dominated by a heavy emphasis on climate objectives and a marginalisation of biodiversity loss. according to the world wildlife fund, since 1970, the global populations of mammals, fish, birds, reptiles, and amphibians have declined by an average of 60 percent. the life programme has fortunately funded many polish projects, such as advanced coal mine wastewater disposal technology and the reuse of contaminated sand from the coal industry. to my regret, since 2013 the national allocations are not geographically balanced. if this were the case, the number and quality of applications from poland would certainly increase. i would ask and urge that this balance be taken into account in the implementation of the programme.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the new life programme for 2021-2027 provides, as has been said, for a budget of over five billion for the achievement of climate and environmental objectives. of this, about 2 billion is dedicated to climate. well, these seem like important resources, but i think they're not enough for all the risk mitigation interventions that are needed to contain the effects of climate change. unfortunately, the steady increase in global warming is causing a worrying rise in sea level, which for all coastal member states means coastal erosion, saltwater intrusion into the groundwater and loss of biodiversity. this results in a progressive degradation of the ecological, social and economic functions of our coasts. in italy, for example, on many stretches of the tyrrhenian sea and adriatic sea, climate change is altering the dunes and coastal ecosystems that are the mediterranean's signature landscape. not only that: the continuing erosion is also jeopardising the future of many economic activities and jobs that are now connected. life is an important programme: but there is a need for greater coordination with other structural fund programmes and coordination between the european union, member states and coastal regions, to provide for specific sub-programmes and priorities on erosion in order to identify innovative european solutions to improve the resilience of coastal ecosystems for the benefit of fisheries, tourism, but also agriculture and all economic activities in coastal areas.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is both good and important that we update the life programme so that it can continue to support sustainable nature projects. i have just visited two areas of denmark that have received support from life. in kerteminde, support has been provided to protect and make the urupdam nature area accessible in a responsible and sustainable way. here more people can access and enjoy nature without destroying it. and in middelfart, centuries of development and construction close to the little belt have affected the landscape. with the support of life, it is possible to restore the marine environment. both projects demonstrate the importance of the life programme in helping to ensure and protect sustainable nature throughout europe for the benefit of citizens and crucial to the green transition. it is good that we continue to expand the programme and it is important to emphasize: the programme is making a difference to our nature!
mr president, this is a time when we must re-shape the future of our planet. we must do so with the utmost courage and ambition to overcome together the climate and environmental emergency that we face globally. but to win, we need the same determination and commitment that we have shown in our fight against the pandemic. i am convinced that environmental groups and european citizens have this commitment to achieve it together. this debate is therefore important today. we are giving a new direction to the environment also through the life programme. stronger than ever for the next seven years, because citizens and we, together, want cleaner air, together we want cleaner and non-polluting energy, together we want smarter transport, together we want to protect biodiversity, both on land and in our seas. and we strongly want a circular economy, where we reduce waste and turn it into a resource. europe is endowed with talented associations and citizens, so take this opportunity to use the life programme.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for your interventions, which are encouraging and which reflect the great support of this house for life. almost three years have passed since the commission adopted its proposal for a new life regulation in june 2018. interinstitutional discussions and negotiations led to a first political agreement in march 2019 but could not be formally concluded, given the pending agreement on the overall mff budget. with a new parliament and a new commission in 2019, almost all main actors involved in this file changed, and after the breakthrough on the next mff last summer, we could resume and finally conclude our negotiations last december. and today, three years later, we are formally closing this legislative procedure, with the final adoption of the new life regulation by the european parliament. it has been a long journey but a very constructive one, and we can be very satisfied with the result we achieved. let me briefly respond also to a couple of colleagues. to ms wiśniewska, who has referred to a geographical imbalance as regards the project, let me just say that we do have specific support for the member states with low effective participation. this is covered in the regulation, and we foresee eur 15 million to improve the situation. we are working to improve the national contact point service and their support and thus increase the quality of projects. this should lead to a better geographical balance. and to ms paulus, let me reassure you that we are working towards an ambitious legislative proposal later this year for binding nature restoration targets and that we are grateful for parliament s important support in this regard. honourable members, dear colleagues, now it’s time to deliver and to implement this new programme. it’s time for new concrete projects and for concrete action, because after all, this is what life is about and what makes it so attractive. the commission will do all it can to ensure that the new life programme reaches cruising speed as soon as possible so that it can show its full potential. we will cooperate closely with all stakeholders, because this programme is first and foremost made for them. we will need their continued support, their creativity and enthusiasm and their commitment to implement the many projects with local, regional and national actors, from civil society to public bodies, industry to ngos. the success of the life programme has always been a shared one, and i am convinced that this will remain one of the biggest strengths also in the future. thank you once again for your support and attention, and let me also wish happy easter to those celebrating easter this weekend.
the debate is closed. i would like to inform you that no proposal to reject the council's position has been tabled and no amendments have been tabled under articles 67 and 68 of the csf. the council's position is therefore approved and the proposed legislative act is therefore adopted. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. i am pleased that after long interinstitutional negotiations we have reached the point where we can adopt the life programme for the years 2021-2027. i support all pro-environmental initiatives and policies that aim to combat, mitigate and adapt to climate change, and promote clean energy and a circular economy. the life programme has been in operation since 1992 and is an eu fund dedicated entirely to environmental and climate objectives. to date, it has funded over 5,000 projects. in june 2018, the european commission proposed a new life regulation that will accelerate the transition to a clean, energy-efficient, low-carbon and climate-resilient circular economy, including the transition to clean energy, enhance the protection and improvement of the environment, and halt and reverse the process of biodiversity loss, contributing to sustainable development. the proposal introduces new types of projects strategic nature projects and strategic integrated projects with a high potential to attract additional public and private funding, a sub-programme on the clean energy transition and combined actions. it is important to me that the new life programme also accelerates the eu-wide target of at least 30% of spending on climate objectives.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! the hydrogen economy is undoubtedly an important element in achieving a climate-neutral european economy. we have therefore welcomed the commission's communication, but the text of the itre report already raises many doubts and questions. firstly, once again in the debate on the energy policy of the european union, i would like to stress how important and extremely important it is for the member states and for the union as a whole to give each member state the opportunity to adapt to the requirements of the union in due time, taking into account the possibilities and the stage of transition that the country is going through. secondly, i think we should support those companies that are producing what is called grey hydrogen, which is high-emission, and that are transforming and wanting to adapt to these requirements. we must support them and not allow them to collapse, to be closed down and to increase unemployment. i therefore believe that the amendments tabled by the ecr group address these problems and deserve support.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in june, we finally vote on the climate law, which says first that we will achieve zero emissions by 2050 at the level of the european union. in climate law, we talk about solidarity, we talk about shared responsibility, and we talk about each region being treated individually. the just transformation fund is the first test of how we're going to implement climate law. and i'm sorry to tell you that the just transformation fund excludes many regions of poland. the committee is adamant. he doesn't want to accept negotiations and discussions about, among other things, a large complex that provides 80,000 jobs in turów. not only does he refuse to accept the plans and timetables, but he and many mps have also been very effective in spreading the falsehood about this complex. the just transformation fund is to be what it is defined to be. let the tours be an example.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the just transition fund is an important tool for the energy transition - that's clear. the costs of this transformation will be very burdensome - for governments, for companies, for workers. and that's what we have to remember. and you have to remember that the poorer, post-communist countries will have a very expensive, long and expensive road to energy transition. somebody's gonna have to pay for this. the costs of this transformation are job losses, unemployment, welfare. we have to remember that. i feel like the technical experts don't see this problem, and that's a huge mistake. the technical experts have noble goals, but they don't see the social problems. we need to raise this as politicians and make sure that there is no social exclusion from this title. in the last five years, poland has devoted more than 40 percent more to environmental protection than in previous years. so we have a lot of expenditure, and poland's energy transition is 240 billion euros with four (unheard words) of just transition.
in writing. the just transition fund is one of the key elements of the green transition in both its energy and social dimensions. this fund is primarily dedicated to sectors and communities inextricably linked to the mining industry, and is intended to compensate for the difficulties and to enable the creation of alternative career prospects for those affected by the new climate policy. but is it really possible, given the scale and unreasonable pace of these changes? under all reasonable assumptions, poland could actually achieve a just transition by 2070. i accept that the current text of the document put to the vote in this plenary session has been substantially revised in relation to the earlier proposals. it assumes that, despite the exclusion of the possibility of investing in gas-based infrastructure under the fund, such a possibility was provided for in the erdf/fs package. natural gas-based technology is absolutely essential for countries like poland that are heavily reliant on coal. however, i am afraid that the financial support provided under the fund in its current form is not realistic and is far from sufficient to bring about these drastic changes without significant damage to societies. i therefore consider it very harmful to push through legislation that could potentially further restrict these measures.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the report comprehensively covers eu occupational mobility. it addresses the long-standing problems of the eu labour market and makes a good diagnosis of the problems. it is also good that the report's scope has been extended to include the issue of covid-19-related labour mobility. the pandemic has brought to light the difficult and sometimes dramatic situation of cross-border, frontier and posted workers, and in particular seasonal workers. closing borders, lack of coordination of restrictions, burdening the cost of testing, health risks, lack of social security - the list of problems is long. it's happening in factories, in slaughterhouses, in asparagus farms, and it needs to be addressed immediately. the effective protection of mobile workers must be guaranteed. social security and the completion of the 8 8 3 programme are crucial. tendencies towards protectionist measures are also increasing. we're also talking about the need to enforce existing law.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the free movement of workers and services is a core value of the single market. it is the foundation and the strength without which we cannot speak of its proper functioning. the actions already taken cannot be enough, which is why we need solutions that simplify the whole process and remove barriers to workers' mobility while fully protecting their fundamental rights. at european level, this is a problem for millions of mobile workers who are temporarily in another eu country. the commission has also provided information on the impact of the measures on the environment and on the impact of the measures on the environment. as europe slowly emerges from the pandemic, we must act in a coordinated and decisive manner. effective implementation and enforcement of the rules in force is a recipe for rebuilding the european economy and for a faster exit from the current crisis. this is no time for political rhetoric. it's time to take decisive action.
in writing. the free movement of workers is both one of the fundamental principles of the eu and an essential foundation of the single market. unfortunately, cross-border, posted and seasonal workers in the eu continue to experience discrimination on grounds of nationality in terms of employment, remuneration and other working conditions. cross-border and seasonal workers in particular have been particularly affected by the coronavirus pandemic. the pandemic has highlighted the difficult working conditions of these workers, who have been affected by uncoordinated border closures and have experienced travel restrictions that have made it difficult for them to get to work and home. and it is these groups of workers with a particularly weak market position that have proven to be crucial to the survival of the eu's healthcare systems, food chains, transport and economy. so i urge you to start respecting and appreciating these workers and their work, their hard work and their sacrifice. the rights of mobile and posted workers must be guaranteed and protected in the same way as the rights of national workers. i believe that solutions must be sought that improve the situation of workers and promote their free movement within the eu, but which do not undermine the competitiveness of member states and the activity of businesses, as is the case with the mobility package. it is also important that all member states strive to fully implement and better enforce the existing rules.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. ladies and gentlemen! thank you very much for the enormous work done by the rapporteur. i really do. i agree with the diagnosis and the consequences. but there are also issues that i will allow myself to disagree with as part of the very constructive discussion that we need. indeed, the report highlights that the effects of climate change are weakening the prospects of developing countries, increasing the risk of drought, hunger, conflict, forced displacement, and amplifying and deepening existing threats. it was stressed that action was needed, not only by the european union but also by those who are contributing most significantly to this climate change. global action is therefore needed to be effective. because we're all about efficiency. i agree that the issues of poverty and inequality should be understood very broadly as the lack of access to all kinds of resources necessary to ensure a decent life. today we're going to focus on one of the elements, which is climate, which is deepening that sphere. but we have many more. it's primarily wars, conflicts, and also all kinds of delays that are functioning. and now the question is, is climate change alone the effective remedy for poverty and empowerment of the most vulnerable people in developing countries? i think not, because we need the help of the european union - the union is indeed the biggest donor - and the help of a representative like our commissioner, who is here today and whom i congratulate very warmly. and especially now, in the time of covid, the commissioner is doing a tremendous job and it's having tremendous effects. but we have to balance all of this very carefully on this issue, because migration is a very serious issue. i disagree with the argument that we should now support the idea of climate-related migration as a legal basis for asylum in migration policy. it could be an invitation, it could actually be learned helplessness. we need development wherever we need to provide access to water. we need to give them access to development projects, because not everyone will emigrate. and we must also remember these people - and i'll finish, mr president - and these countries which today in the european union have a big problem, like greece, like italy. this is a very serious problem that needs to be looked at in a multi-faceted way.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, the context of the covid-19 pandemic risks diverting our attention from another 40-year-old scourge: aids. in this regard, the holding of the un high level meeting scheduled for 7-10 june 2021 is timely. the progress made over the past 20 years is particularly significant, particularly in terms of access to antiretroviral medicines. however, if we are not careful, the eradication of hiv/aids may remain a pipe dream. if we are to make the trend towards zero pollution irreversible, the international community must give a structured global response. while the european union's determination has been decisive in achieving encouraging results, it must continue to maintain the current course and strengthen existing structures, both in terms of pharmaceutical production and capacity transfers to developing countries, and in the educational efforts essential to contain the pandemic. the commission plays a central role in the federation of all the forces involved in the fight against aids. its partners include the international institutions, the voluntary sector, which has played a pioneering role in this field, and the global fund to fight aids, malaria and tuberculosis, which has become the central player par excellence. it is thanks to the latter that differentiated structures have been set up, able to meet the needs of patients in all developing countries. the european parliament is aware that the commission will make its mark at the new york meeting and encourages it to continue along this path. if we are serious about these expected results by the end of 2030, we have only nine years left to act.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, in 2019, of the 38 million people living with aids, 12 million lacked access to adequate treatment, and more than one third of newly infected people are young people aged 15 to 27. we therefore call for unconditional support in europe and around the world for organisations working to raise awareness of aids prevention and for health workers to treat people with aids, and for targeted support for vulnerable populations, particularly in sub-saharan africa. the right to live in good health is a right and we should not be able to trade on the backs of pandemics. to fight aids everywhere and to ensure that medicines are available to everyone, intellectual property rights must be abolished. for aids, we need to maintain it; for covid-19, we need to establish it.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. mr. chairman of the deve committee! despite years of research, millions of dollars spent, and thousands of people involved in public awareness campaigns and medical training, the aids virus continues to threaten the world. there are now 38 million people worldwide who have been confirmed infected, and 78 million people have died from the virus. although progress has been made in recent years to slow the spread of the virus, there is still no effective drug to eliminate it completely or a vaccine to protect against it for life. people in developing countries in africa, asia, and south america are particularly vulnerable, but we can't forget about people in russia and ukraine, where there are still very high rates of infection, which is associated with a lack of effective care and access to testing. that's where we should be focusing our efforts. we need a multi-sectoral and global response to this global crisis: on the one hand, an information campaign, and on the other, adequate support and sharing of existing medicines to help patients in their unequal struggle. hiv knows no borders, and the fight against it knows no borders, and should know no borders. it is on this front that the european union can show its strength and effectiveness and increase investment in unaids, the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria. the larger funds are a significant chance of finding a cure and if possible of finding a vaccine. the covid-19 pandemic has shown that in times of emergency, we can act quickly and effectively. today is a good day to take that path to bring about the change we've been waiting for.
in writing. the overall trend of new hiv infections according to unaids data shows that the hiv epidemic remains a global challenge due to societal challenges and lack of access to effective prevention tools. the inequalities that are driving the hiv epidemic have been further exacerbated by the covid-19 pandemic. the fasttrack strategy's goal of reducing new infections to approximately 200,000 by 2030 and achieving a composite score of 90%90%90%, whereby almost all infected persons (90%) are aware of their infection, of which 90% are receiving antiretroviral treatment and 90% are undetected, may be difficult to sustain in its global setting in the context of the covid-19 pandemic. what steps does the commission intend to take to accelerate the fight against aids on the one hand, in line with the fasttrack strategy developed by unaids, and on the other hand, with concrete support for the efforts of member states, in support of their own health policy programmes, health care systems and systems to reduce social inequalities? remember, the goal of the strategy to combat the hiv/aids epidemic and arv treatment is not only to improve the health of people living with hiv, but also to rebuild their immune systems, reduce the risk of developing aids, reduce the level of infection, and thereby reduce the risk of transmission of infection to non-infected people by stopping transmission in the population.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. one of the effects of the pandemic is to increase the risk of chaotic deglobalization, as the rules and risks associated with fragile supply chains have become apparent. and we're seeing that individual countries, individual governments are also starting to support relocation of production to protect jobs and increase security of supply. and it's the right thing to do. there is a danger that the countries of the union will be drawn into competition for dwindling resources and investments, which could lead to a widespread breach of the rules of the common market. relocation of production can mean strengthening the economies of the most developed member states. in the long term, such changes could lead to a deepening of disparities between eu countries. at the same time, the number of non-tariff instruments and the countries that apply them is increasing. the paralysis of the dispute settlement system of the world trade organization will make it more and more difficult to combat this type of activity. so i wanted to ask you, how does your strategy address these potential risks?
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, the coronavirus pandemic has indeed awakened europe to the fact that we are dependent on imports for many critical raw materials and important components, in particular china's ability to produce critical protective equipment or medicines for us. this was very prominent in the early stages of the pandemic. since then, the problems have continued to compound and have underlined the need for the european union to pay greater attention to its own security of supply, resilience or strategic autonomy. it's very important. the industrial strategy should focus on investments in these critical sectors. at the same time, however, care must be taken to ensure that this does not become protectionist. we must ensure that the market operates internationally. we have several opportunities to make these purchases. in the context of the updating of the industrial strategy, i would like to draw particular attention to two aspects, one of which is the position of smes. we must ensure that we really move towards better regulation and stick to the 'one in, one out' principle, i.e. that whenever new obligations are imposed on smes, we also waive some of them. the second big theme is the bioeconomy. overall, it is important that the industrial strategy also pays attention to the forestry industry and the opportunities it offers for our sustainable green growth.
madam president, i am glad that we can talk about industrial strategy today, because industry not only creates 35 million jobs in the european union, but it is at the heart of our economic functioning and is a key area for our european economic recovery. today, we know that it is not only affected by the pandemic situation, but also by the rapid development of digitalization and our ambitious environmental goals. but i am sure that we have a chance to come out of this crisis empowered and industry can play this key role if we highlight three aspects. firstly, it is the common market. secondly, the role of small businesses and thirdly, the development of human resources. as regards the common market, we must complete it, particularly in the area of services, and not only implement the service directive, as the commission rightly proposes, but also implement and liberalise all services and have a level playing field for the digital common market as well. in the area of small businesses, we need to fundamentally improve access to capital, i.e. complete the capital union. we need to break down the barriers, the bureaucracy. what an important role the position of sme envoy will play. and last but not least, we must ensure that quality human resources are supported. this concerns not only entrepreneurship education in schools, but also the extension of the erasmus plus programmes, erasmus for young entrepreneurs. i am confident that if we put emphasis on these aspects, then industry will play a successful role in economic recovery.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen during the pandemic that the main cause of economic drift in the european economic system has been our manufacturing industry. the best debt is debt for production. we must not forget, in times like these, of smart working and beyond, that there are factories where there are people working. to protect our manufacturing we must, as the industrial strategy rightly says, protect our strategic autonomy. what does that mean? it means taking action in certain areas, as has been said by my colleagues. in the steel industry, so-called green steel should not be penalized, so we cannot afford to export such large quantities of scrap, the most important recyclable raw material for our industrial systems. the same was said for semiconductors: the digital transition is not possible if europe produces only 9% of the world's semiconductors, compared to about 50% 20 years ago. and finally, the health issue has introduced into the industrial debate a great diatribe around patents: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. patents should not be extended, they should be protected so that production is increasingly competitive.
i welcome the adoption of the revised industrial strategy and analysis, which has confirmed the strong dependence of certain industrial sectors, such as the technology and pharmaceutical sectors, on suppliers from outside the european union. and while the covid-19 pandemic has accelerated social transformation, it has also deepened already existing socioeconomic inequalities. it is the workers who have borne the brunt of this crisis. the revised industrial strategy therefore had to take greater account of the many labour market changes that have emerged from this crisis, such as remote work, while at the same time in many countries we are witnessing a worrying increase in the share of volatile and insecure forms of employment. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy strategy and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the implementation of the energy union strategy.
madam president, in light of the post-pandemic challenges, it is important to focus on how we can fortify our industry in an extremely competitive and inter-dependent environment in key strategic sectors, taking into account that we have to avoid further carbon leakage. in this regard, we have to work also towards diversifying in the national supply chain and pursuing in the national partnership to increase preparedness on a sector-by-sector basis. one of the sectors which is also mentioned in the commission’s strategy and where we have to invest heavily is batteries. batteries are the key component for the wider uptake, not only for immobility and renewables, but they are bound to become the catalyst to materialise the european green deal’s ambition, and that is to become climate neutral by 2050 and also to have companies become world leaders in clean products and technologies. we need more like the european battery innovation initiative: an important project of common interest that supports research and innovation in the battery value chain. to help member states – among them my home country, greece – it will provide up to 2.9 billion in funding in the coming years, and the public funding is expecting to unlock an additional nine billion in private investment: that is more than three times the public support. we need more projects like that. we need more europe investing for research and innovation in strategic sectors. we need to stop playing catch-up with our global strategic competitors. we have to join forces and lead the way.
madam president! while covid-19 has done a lot of damage, it has also taught us a valuable lesson about integration. we must draw lessons from it for the future of the european economy. first, the common market is the core of the european economy, but it is not yet as common as it could be. i would like to remind you of the enormous problems facing crossborder workers and entrepreneurs who have fallen victim to the chaotic reintroduction of national borders and regulations. the commission has therefore welcomed the proposal for an emergency single market instrument to ensure the free movement of persons, goods and services in the event of crises. it's time to send national egos back to the lamus. the second issue is that the post-pandemic recovery of the eu economy is a unique opportunity to achieve an industrial, green and sustainable transformation. the funds from the reconstruction fund or the fund for just transformation cannot feed into 19th century economic thinking. the future is self-government, economic freedom and innovation.
madam president, commissioner, minister, i have to tell you something. every human life is sacred. what we're trying to protect today is a big deal. nearly seven hundred migrants have drowned in the mediterranean this year alone. that's almost three times more than in 2020. numbers can never tell the gravity of a tragedy, only its scale. they don't tell us about the pain of the loved ones of the dead, and they don't describe the emotions. it is imperative that we help those who need it. but our emotions, our compassion, we need to immediately translate into very concrete action. and we have the instruments. first, the fight against human trafficking must be fought vigorously. they're the ones who are really causing these poor people, who want a better life... we talked about the climate yesterday. and that also affects migration, as does war and all other conflicts. it's not like these people are guilty. today they die only because someone promises them a better world, takes money for it and leads them to certain death. so the first is the fight against smugglers, the second is aid on the ground, absolutely development aid. i think this is extremely important. and the third one is the migration and asylum pact and the return directive.
in writing. saving lives at sea is a moral imperative. no one wants people to die in the mediterranean who should never have been there. not in pontoons or rusty boats. since at least 2015, we have been calling for an end to the pernicious policy of 'herzlich willkommen', especially for those who have tried to enter europe illegally, even though only a miracle could often save them from death at sea. we called for a war on the criminal gangs, the smugglers who cynically send thousands of people to their deaths. no one should leave their country of origin without first securing their right to asylum and a residence permit in europe. the european union authorities should have the courage to finally implement at least some of the solutions we have proposed: strong border protection, a thoughtful and responsible migration policy, or more effective cooperation with source countries to stop the uncontrolled flow of illegal migrants. the irresponsible and questionable behaviour of a number of ngos, whose actions often border on collaboration with criminal groups and encourage an increased influx of illegal migrants, must be finally addressed. we also need to stop attacking frontex and europol officers for protecting our borders and doing the job they were sent to do.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am concerned, however, about the way the eu is going to deal with yet another country, not a member but a candidate for membership, after brexit. ankara has been waiting to join the european union since the early 1960s. he's a tough partner, but we're gonna add to the problems and tighten up the membership requirements. turkey is in a very difficult geopolitical situation, and there are many crises around it: the syrian crisis, the kurdish crisis, the islamic crisis, the daesh crisis, iran, russia, migration, etc. we left her alone with so many of these problems. i admit that we may have many comments and objections to turkish domestic and foreign policy, but why are we at the same time trying so hard to find all kinds of privileges for countries like china and russia, which are presented by the neighboring nato organization as our enemy? the hostile, offensive, exclusionary language of our resolutions is not justified here. we need turkey for geopolitical reasons, for our security on the eastern flank, against a multitude of threats. i therefore call for the conditional dialogue and the accession process to be maintained, and we will thus maintain the instruments of influence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr. chairman, please! regardless of the tensions that are emerging in relations between the european union and turkey, it is in our interest to keep ankara in the orbit of the so-called western influence. the best way to do this is to maintain a european perspective and to support the pro-european and pro-western part of turkish society. close cooperation in areas such as security, counter-terrorism, economic relations and immigration is in the interest of both sides. turkey is a key partner for the european union, especially in the context of migration policy. our cooperation must also be strengthened in the area of capacity building to combat trafficking and smuggling of human beings. we must bear in mind the burden that turkey bears in hosting almost four million refugees on its territory. and despite the shortcomings in democratic standards in turkey noted by international institutions in recent years, it must be stressed that the country remains both our nato ally and an important partner of the european union and a formal candidate for membership in the european community.
member of the commission. – mr president, the debate today testified to concerns and engagement regarding the impact of climate change on human rights. i share your concerns and i want to express our active support for the key actions you proposed in the report. the eu is not able to tackle these global challenges alone. we need to leverage our efforts by further increasing cooperation with partner countries and continuing to use all multilateral fora to raise global ambitions and standards together. addressing the climate emergency, protecting and preserving the planet is simply not an option, but an imperative responsibility for which we, as leaders and decision makers, are accountable to this and future generations. for this reason, it is a top priority for the eu that an ambitious post—2020 global biodiversity framework is adopted at the convention on biological diversity, cop 15, in kunming, china, later this year. it will provide an important opportunity for countries to commit to action. once again, be assured that you will find the high representative and the commission to address the major challenges that we discussed today, and where, on the road ahead, failure is just not an option.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, tuesday, 18 may 2021. the final vote will take place on wednesday 19 may 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. i am very pleased that in the european parliament we are increasingly able not only to discuss climate change but also to try to prevent it. climate change and continuous environmental degradation have a direct impact on freshwater resources, ecosystems and entire communities, and this in turn negatively affects the effective enjoyment of human rights, including the right to life, food security, safe drinking water and sanitation, health, housing, self-determination, work and development. increasingly, the effects of climate change are not only felt by the least developed countries, although they are the ones most affected, but also by the highly developed countries, including many european countries. the best example of this is the situation that took place in poland in skierniewice in 2019. the drought had caused the water to run out of the taps, and many smaller towns had to be supplied with water. such examples are growing year by year throughout europe. i therefore call on you to act effectively and swiftly to not only prevent further changes but above all to repair the damage that has already been done. it is very important that climate activists and indigenous peoples defending their territory receive adequate support and can count on justice when defending their territory and values.
mr president, the corporate tax systems originate from 1919. they are outdated and in dire need of reform. you might think this is an old text, i’ve read it before, but the good news is that today’s strategy by the commission has the potential to bring the tax system into the 21st century, and given it’s already 2021 it’s about time. indeed its most far-reaching, most ambitious part, isn’t new, as markus ferber referred to. a common corporate tax base has been proposed before, strongly supported by parliament, with myself as rapporteur, but certain member states had blocked progress, as is often the case, allowing tax avoidance at a massive scale to the benefit of the biggest corporations and the very rich. but the tide is changing. our economies need extra revenue to invest in a sustainable recovery, and joe biden therefore advocates the end of the race to the bottom in taxation. this provides a window of opportunity and today the commission jumps right through it. with the proposals to modernise tax systems, to create a minimum tax rate in the eu and to put harmful letterbox companies under scrutiny, parliament and member states should grab this opportunity to make everyone pay their fair share so that in this century tax justice will prevail.
mr president, mr gentiloni, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is made up of 27 states, 27 systems of corporate taxation, 27 opportunities for exploiting loopholes. multinational corporations know this well and boast of aggressive and unlimited tax practices. i would like to thank in particular the member states, like those which have been blocking the proposal for a consolidated base, so essential to european tax justice, since 2011. mr gentiloni, today you are presenting a new package for the accis project; his name is befit. but merely changing the name without a strategy or implementation plan is pointless. a third attempt at a corporate tax strategy for nothing, a pity! will you finally take concrete political initiatives to bring everyone together on the tax issue? will you finally use article 116 to get around the blockade of unanimity on this issue? we need a fairer and more readable tax system, which is finally redistributive, now more than ever. as you know, in the context we have today, the 27 must urgently mourn national selfishness in tax matters.
mr president, commissioner gentiloni, first of all i would like to thank you for this communication. i would like to thank you for your work and effort over these months in presenting this document that we have seen today, which clearly addresses the great challenges we are facing - not only in europe, but around the world - in the face of the changes that are happening to the economic structure, the development of the digital economy, the growth of the large multinationals and all those legal quirks that are still present in national tax regulations, and more especially in those countries that do tax dumping. i want to thank you for this proposal and i also wish you courage, because the difficult part may start now. because in recent years we have discussed many times the need to harmonize corporation taxation and so far we have found the blockage of some governments in the council, also the blockage of some seats in this house - and i am looking to the right - and i am confident that we are facing a new beginning and, this time, yes, we can complete this mission.
member of the commission. – mr president, i should like to thank the honourable members for their contributions. of course, we don’t ignore the fact that member states are sovereign in their tax systems. we are proposing to contribute to modernise our business taxation framework and to play an active role as european union in a debate, a negotiation, a conversation that is going on all over the world. and it would be and appear quite strange if the european union, in this situation, doesn’t play an active and possibly leading role in this domain. difficulties are there, of course, and in some cases in the past – not in all cases because progress was made in limited issues – these difficulties were a serious brake on our progress in the last years. but why should we be able now to overcome these difficulties? it’s not a matter of labelling. our capacity is based on three elements, very strong, i believe. the first is that everyone is clear on the need, in this post pandemic economy, to have stable resources to finance the transition that we have to finance and to face the accelerating tendencies that we saw during the pandemic. second, because there is a possible, never been so near, global agreement and this global agreement is based exactly on two fundamental principles that we are supporting: the reallocation of taxing rights and the minimal effective taxation. and i am quite sure that a global agreement will pave the way for a european agreement and for the inclusion of this global agreement in our legal framework. and the third reason i think we can overcome the difficulties is that, of course, as we very well know, the commission and the parliament will work hand in hand in this strategy. and for this reason i again thank you for the debate this evening that is confirming this common commitment.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – the commission came up with the communication on business taxation at a crucial moment – we are currently getting out of the recession, with the commission forecasting a gdp growth of 4.2% in the eu in 2021. hence various national governments, like my own, are introducing economic plans based on the next generation eu for our countries to recover. but we will not recover without giving our businesses a platform to thrive. while the new ‘polish order’ might clip the wings of many companies, i believe our companies work hard for the money so we’d better treat them right and welcome the commission’s communication. first, while the upcoming proposals that have already been announced can simplify tax rules and cut compliance costs – even though we need more explanations – the befit may make the lives of smes and many bigger companies easier if they want to thrive in the eu. i therefore wish the commission luck in making it work out. the recommendation on loss treatment is also a step in the right direction. nevertheless, i would like to ask the commission: what if some countries hamper this process? please remember that you have many supporters of enhanced cooperation or article 116 in this house.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as rapporteur for the ppe group, i would also like to thank very much mr smeriglio and all the rapporteurs of the political groups for their cooperation. thanks to this great teamwork, after more than three years of negotiations, we have managed to reach an agreement, which is a great success. it's now a very important political signal, also for the entire cultural and creative sector: we have the largest support program for artists and creators, with the largest budget in history. the european union has never spent more on culture than it will in the next seven years. thanks to our efforts, the program's budget has almost doubled. we will be able to finance even more cultural projects, media education, the creation of european film co-productions, subtitles or film distribution. this is particularly important now that the cultural and media sectors have been hit hard by the crisis. i'm glad that this new program will help them regain their strength, become more resilient and competitive. for the first time in history, we're going to have a dedicated music fund focused on contemporary music and live music. creative europe will also support platforms promoting emerging artists. it's my personal success and i'm proud that i made it. in addition, the new programme will take greater account of the specificities of each country, the size of the markets and the cultural diversity, which i hope will level the playing field for all participants. moreover, the new edition of the programme will focus on promoting the artistic and professional careers of women.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. after long negotiations, we are close to finalising the creative europe programme for the years 2021-2027. it is the only eu framework programme to support culture and the audiovisual industry. the committee on culture and education worked unanimously to increase the budget for the programme, and it was indeed increased. however, this is a small increase, as is the amount the union spends on culture and the creative industries, although it is known that these areas are not only the basis of our value system but also important for economic development. it is worth emphasizing the issue of the equitable distribution of the fund. we fought for the ability to give a proportionate amount of funding to countries with different audiovisual production capacities. we will monitor the programme closely and call on the european commission to give small countries a chance too. finally, we oppose the continuing attempt to bring gender issues into the mainstream of politics. we are, of course, for equality, but we are against the ideological mechanism of lowering the criteria for one group at the expense of another, called positive discrimination, which is indeed discrimination, but it is certainly not positive.
mr president european culture, based on greco-roman and christian foundations, is the sum total of the cultures of the individual nations. we can get closer by getting to know each other's culture. due to the pandemic, cultural operators have faced significant economic difficulties. like many european countries, hungary has contributed significant sums to museums, libraries, theatres, zoos, the film industry, and book publishers. it also provided resources for the online broadcasting of high-quality, rural music concerts, but also supported the light music sector, giving it money. i am pleased that the report calls for greater access to culture for people with disabilities, thereby contributing to a truly inclusive cohesion. culture is what binds us together.
mr president, commissioner, the creative europe programme is in fact the only european programme that directly targets the cultural and creative sectors. the almost doubling of the budget to eur 2.4 billion is a great success after three years of negotiations and i want to thank and congratulate both the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and the commissioner. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the european culture, heritage and the performing arts have world-leading status in many areas and great economic potential. the media programme, which offers support to the audiovisual sector in the european union, has been recognised for its track record to date, and its benefits were also visible at this year's oscars. among the nominees were seven films supported by the media programme itself. support for the film arts and film festivals is also important and it is important that support is also given to individual smaller regional festivals, not just networks and large projects. the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's digital agenda, in particular through the european digital agenda, the digital agenda for europe and the digital agenda for europe. it's a very important contribution to our efforts to combat disinformation. i believe that this programme has great prospects and deserves even greater financial support in the future.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. wrocław european capital of culture 2016 crossing borders theatre project for artists with disabilities. katowice is a city of gardens. the body of god by jan komasa nominated for an oscar. millennium docs against gravity is a fantastic documentary film festival. these are just a few of the thousands of cultural operators that have received funding from the eu budget in recent years. and this flow of support will not end. with the adoption of the new creative europe funding programme, this will be even more - two and a half billion euro. we've been watching this in the negotiations because we care about culture. we are aware that support for artists and creators is particularly important now. we're not going to let anybody tell us that culture is not important. it's not a good idea. culture is what made man something other than just a random event in nature.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. since its inception in 1987, the number of participants in erasmus has grown and eurobarometer surveys have ranked it among the union's most important achievements. erasmus+ enables the mobility of learners, improves the employment prospects of its participants and fosters cooperation between education and training institutions, as well as youth organisations, clubs and sports federations in europe. in this context, further strengthening this programme, both in financial and other terms, was a priority for the european parliament during the negotiations of the 2021-27 mff. after two and a half years of negotiations, an agreement was reached and, although the programme does not have the ambitious budget that parliament wanted, it will be strengthened by a real increase of around 60% compared to the previous edition. for example, we have obtained a commitment to provide vocational education and training centres with a much larger amount than the commission had envisaged, i.e. eur 400 million. most importantly, the programme will be wider in scope, reach more people and offer new opportunities. this is a big step forward.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to thank you very much, because i think, not without pride, that european democracy is flourishing today in this debate and this vote on erasmus+. your candid positions demonstrate how passionate we are about this programme and its role in the future of our societies. after several years of persistent work with the council and parliament, whose remarkable commitment i honour, we have managed to take strong, clear and readable positions on what we want to do with this new programme 'erasmus+'. with the invaluable support of the national agencies and authorities, which are also the backbone of the programme, we are now on the right track to implement an erasmus+ programme that is more than ever a foundation of the european pillar. we are at the beginning of a journey that will last seven years. the europeans have trusted us to put the means, including budgetary means, to meet their requirements and ambitions. the challenges facing europe and europeans require us to act without timidity, regardless of the difficulties of the task, and with efforts commensurate with our common ambitions. so, ladies and gentlemen, let us spread the news and developments of the erasmus+ programme even more widely in the coming weeks and months. these opportunities must be accessible and known in order to be seized. so now we owe it to all our schoolchildren, teachers, apprentices, sports clubs and adults. and i thank you, because listening to you tonight, i remain very confident that we will be able to do that too.
if i may make a small personal note, it has been a great honour and pleasure for me to chair this debate, as i have been able to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the programme as an erasmus student and the 30th anniversary as a member of the european parliament. so it's a small sign of the success of this program. the debate is closed. i note that no proposals have been tabled to reject or amend the council's position under articles 67 and 68 of the regulation. the council's position is therefore deemed to be approved and the proposed act is therefore deemed to be definitively adopted. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the erasmus+ programme is a european success story. erasmus+ fosters a sense of belonging to europe by creating cultural bridges, enables mobility of trainees and staff, improves employment prospects for participants and promotes cooperation between education and training institutions, youth organisations, sports clubs and federations across the continent and the world. in this context, further strengthening this programme - not only in financial terms - is a priority for the european parliament.
in writing. i support the new erasmus+ budget for 2021-2027 and i am glad that we have not only agreed to almost double the amount - over €28 billion - but also to make it more accessible. erasmus is the most successful european programme and extension of #discovereu, aimed at 18-year-olds who can visit other member states than their home country. the fact that adults can also spend up to six months in another eu country as part of an erasmus+ exchange project and that citizens of all ages and backgrounds have the chance to learn professional and life skills in a multicultural environment is an additional chance to adapt to post-pandemic changes and the inevitable transition to a green and digital economy. the new erasmus+ focuses on inclusion and provides more opportunities for those from vulnerable groups: people with disabilities, those living in isolated locations, those at risk of poverty, etc. we agreed that the program should have easier procedures to follow, less paperwork and be easier for those who want to use it, so that we can be #powertogether.
in writing. erasmus+ is one of the most well-known and appreciated eu programmes and has probably done more for european integration than any single document or decision. it enables young people from across the union to learn the culture and language of their near and far neighbours. through erasmus, we are not only fostering tolerance and mutual understanding, but also developing young people's skills, increasing their chances on the labour market, giving them unique experiences and making them more open-minded. the programme also contributes to improving the quality of education, developing new teaching methods and educational tools through the implementation of various projects. we have asked parliament to triple the erasmus budget. it has not been achieved, but after difficult negotiations, the programme has doubled its budget, which is also an important step forward. with the additional funds, many more young people will benefit from the programme in this perspective. erasmus has also become more inclusive. the current programme is designed to make it easier for those with fewer opportunities, such as people with disabilities or those with less resources. it will be possible to use means of support for participation, for example advance payments or, in certain situations, adjustment of the amount of support so that no one is excluded. it will also be easier for smaller organisations, such as those from small towns, to participate. the possibility of implementing partnerships on a smaller scale and the simplification of procedures will reduce their administrative burden.
in writing. i welcome the new shape of the erasmus+ programme for the years 2021-2027. the formula of new forms of projects and the easier access for smaller and local organisations is particularly welcome. i hope that these goals will be achieved the importance of smaller units that not only have unique knowledge of local community problems and original ideas for their solutions, but also the ability to include disadvantaged young people in their projects, who often need special channels of outreach, must be remembered. this programme can play a key role in the covid-19 crisis. the analysis shows that young people are one of the groups of society that have been disproportionately affected by the economic crisis. any instrument of support for this group is particularly important at this time. it should also be noted that erasmus+ will be crucial for the creation of the european education area by 2025 and aims to mobilise the education, training, youth and sport sectors for a rapid economic recovery and future growth.
in writing. the erasmus programme has been around for as long as i can remember. i was five years old when it was first launched. when i was growing up, erasmus was for me, alongside open borders and freedom, the symbol of the european union. the union we so desperately wanted to join. and we joined, and i had the opportunity to become an erasmus student in finland back in 2006. so when today, as a member of the european parliament, i can vote for the next edition of erasmus, i feel just joy and pride. we're continuing the program and giving it more and more funding. these are truly pro-european decisions, showing the value of integration, which is also appreciated by those who were forced to leave the european union by short-sighted populism. scottish universities, welsh universities - they want to continue to participate in erasmus. and we, together with other progressive meps, will do everything we can to make that possible.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european solidarity corps regulations drawn up by parliament will, i hope, eliminate the weaknesses of the previous solutions, i.e. the low visibility and the resulting low interest in the programme. as rapporteur for the ecr group, i would like to stress two points which are important to us. first, the programme must be implemented with a high degree of participation. the aim is to ensure that the european solidarity corps quality label is available not only to large international organisations but also to smaller ones, often operating at local level. they have a thorough knowledge of local problems and the best ways to solve them. i therefore call on the commission to ensure that administrative burdens and different types of reporting do not become a factor excluding them. it is also worth mentioning the christian organizations that are very active in the field of volunteering, such as the community of sant'egidio, caritas, the salesian missionary volunteers and many, many others. the second point. the programme has managed to retain the possibility of national actions, and this is welcome. it is important not to discriminate against young people who, for various reasons, can only participate in national actions and projects. we would like to see the 20% ceiling for national actions raised in the next edition.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. volunteering unleashes goodness, volunteering is about doing good, especially to those in need in difficult situations, but it's also an investment in young people's personal development. i would like to thank mrs šojdrová, mrs verheyen, the whole negotiating team, the council, the commission, because the adoption of this document is indeed a great good that is happening in the european union today. the european solidarity corps is a very good document. the agreement reached between parliament, the commission and the council is satisfactory to many parties. but i would like to emphasize that the very important component is the humanitarian component. and thank you very much for agreeing - very quickly, very professionally - to all of these elements that are so important to the distinctiveness of this very professional and much needed humanitarian volunteerism today. mr president, commissioner, i think that this is primarily due to the fact that we have got along very well, but to conclude the last sentence mr president in my country, in poland, the great symbol of volunteering is the late helenka kmiec. she was murdered in bolivia while doing good work as a young volunteer. i hope he'll be patronising us.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the development of artificial intelligence is a chance for the next leap in civilization. to do this, we need to coordinate investment and raise awareness among the public, who still lack confidence in this technology. in addition, if we want to effectively implement the solutions that ai brings, we must combat the digital exclusion that unfortunately affects a large proportion of europeans. learning about ai and digitisation should take place at all stages of education. an educated society is the best asset that will have a significant impact on its development. member state governments should support the deployment of advanced digital solutions by working with innovative european companies, as is the case in poland through the govtech government platform, which strengthens the involvement of external actors in improving digital skills in various areas of public life.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, new technologies have a substantial impact on education, culture and the audiovisual sector. the european parliament calls for the role of artificial intelligence to be assessed, the opportunities offered by these technologies to be developed, and for users to be adequately informed and protected. we are the authors of this digital transformation, and we can set the rules and principles, including ethical ones, on which we develop these technologies, making the process more human and inclusive. artificial intelligence cannot replace teacher empathy, but technology can help increase the quality of the educational act. the artist's creativity doesn't have to be replaced by an algorithm, but future content creators can use technology to generate higher revenue. the development of education and skills on artificial intelligence is essential. europe can be a pioneer in artificial intelligence, but it can also be a leader in ethics.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam rapporteur, thank you very much for this interesting discussion. as you can see, the use of artificial intelligence in the education, cultural and creative sectors presents many opportunities, but also challenges. we want to preserve europe's cultural diversity in today's rapidly changing environment. we therefore want to ensure that the wide diversity of european cultural and creative actors can benefit from these developments. to explore the possibilities, the commission has launched a study which will identify inspiring case studies for all creative sectors; the results are expected in december. as regards the challenges, your report rightly stresses, among others, the importance of privacy protection, the fight against discrimination, the promotion of gender equality, respect for intellectual property rights, environmental protection and consumer rights. all these challenges are being addressed in various ongoing initiatives and studies. creative europe also recognises these challenges and encourages collaboration between the cultural and media sectors to address these challenges, through its newly established cross-sectoral innovation lab. i would like to conclude on a subject which i think is particularly important. we must ensure that these technological developments do not change our values and our european way of life. progress without inclusion and equality, the dissemination of news or data without ethics are just meaningless words. we need to make sure that no one is left behind, that no one feels that their privacy or their rights have been violated, and that everyone has an equal chance to thrive. after four councils in the last few days and four debates tonight, i would like to thank you again for the extraordinary energy i have felt tonight, and also to say that you can count on my support.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 19 may 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. artificial intelligence is, as has been said, the electricity of the 21st century and europe must lead the way through the training of the new generations. however, it is a mistake to approach the digital future from an ideological perspective such as gender, and to try to impose it on our workers and our students. the report even raises the absurd idea that robots have no gender. artificial intelligence should be considered as a technical tool in the service of human beings in an ethical and professional manner. the role of artificial intelligence in relation to the human factor, which distorts its own nature, is also a cause for concern. for example, when anti-discrimination techniques are used to correct supposed stereotypes.
in writing. it is very good that we, as the european parliament, are giving so much attention to artificial intelligence. today, the inclusion of ai in an effective legal framework is crucial for the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. the use of ai in the education and culture sector and in the audiovisual sector is now at a very advanced level by big tech, but unfortunately the creators themselves, the teachers or the democratically elected authorities have no control over it. in fact, we are all now petitioners for global corporations that have more data on each of us than any country or institution. we must have effective tools to respond, rules that clearly define what is and is not allowed, but above all rules that protect each recipient and user from manipulation.
madam president! the voices being heard in the context of the discussion about the possible suspension of the agreement's provisions on trade-related aspects of intellectual property are mainly a polarized debate between supporters and opponents of the abolition or relaxation of intellectual property rights in relation to the newly developed technology against the covid-19 virus. from a medical perspective, none of these decisions are a ticket to a speedy recovery. despite the obvious complexity of the subject on both sides of the debate, we should not forget that the patient is the most important person. from a patient perspective, making the production of vaccines more efficient, distributing them properly and quickly, and ensuring that they are available free of charge and without delay should be our overriding goal. it was once said: joining forces is a beginning, staying together is progress, working together is success. as the european union, we have joined forces in the covax initiative, as member states we are standing together in the distribution and deployment of vaccines, but we will succeed in getting out of the pandemic by acting in solidarity, by responding in a real way to the need to make vaccine patents available to the community, which should be treated as a common good.
madam president, please. this is another false debate, the european parliament is once again losing its voice. the exemption from the trips agreement is a matter for the wto. this is no time to bid on each other in a competition of goodness with the united states. it's a virtue to maintain rationality and sanity in times of crisis. the global goal is to get as many people vaccinated as possible, as soon as possible, wherever they live in the world. the suspension of patents does not increase production capacity, does not increase technology and know-how everywhere. not to mention that the institution of compulsory public health clearance is already in place under the trips agreement and is being used by countries. in the meantime, let's not forget that the us has not exported any vaccine or raw materials for manufacturing, while the eu exports every second vaccine it produces. it does so despite the fact that there is not enough vaccine in the union. the eu is doing well in its foreign commitments. instead, we should be asking the commission why there are not enough vaccines to protect our citizens now, and why the eu economy is suffering millions of dollars in damage every day.
madam president, waiving patents is an intuitively appealing idea. as much as i share the conviction that we will not have beaten the virus before the global population is vaccinated, i am convinced that waiver would not be the easy and quick solution we need to boost the global vaccine production and to get more shots into the arms of the worldwide priority populations. because, unfortunately, to produce a vaccine much more than a patent is needed. that the us administration has now come out in support of the waiver i cannot but interpret this as a smokescreen, designed to deflect from the fact that they are barely exporting any vaccines and vaccine components themselves. instead of sloganeering, it would be far more helpful if the us would export some of their vaccine stockpile, estimated at over 60 million shots. so, instead of losing ourselves in theoretical debates, we should focus on the urgency at hand by cranking up vaccine output through increased production at home and abroad, increasing exports, for example through covax, facilitating targeted technology transfers to countries with existing production capacities and by using the existing trips flexibilities in the rare cases where ip rights are an obstacle. so, please let’s avoid and mind the gap, there is just more than the waiver of the patents.
madam president, the fight against covid—19 has gained new momentum due to the us declaration supporting a temporary trips waiver for vaccines. however, we have to remember that declarations should not replace concrete action. so far, it is mostly the eu that has openly allowed for the export of vaccines. other highly developed economies should also play their part in addressing the global pandemic emergency. respect for intellectual property rights is crucial for incentivising vaccine research, but we cannot forget what is really at stake here. as one might say, we should not care for silverware when the whole house is on fire. we have to address worldwide vaccine shortages. not only active technology transfers, but also increasing investment in the production capacity of developing countries should be our goal. this is a rare opportunity to work for the benefit of the global population and our own, as no one will be safe until everyone is safe.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! the only effective cure for the coronavirus is a vaccine. vaccinating as many people as possible around the world will lead to a faster return to normalcy. unfortunately, in many parts of the world, the situation with vaccines is dramatic. india, africa, and south america are the countries with the highest number of cases and the lowest number of vaccinations. we have the kovacs system, but is it 100% what the market needs? should we not look for additional solutions to help speed up vaccination where it is needed? a discussion on the release of vaccine patents is needed as well as actions to increase vaccine production processes and its effective distribution to countries most in need. at the recent social summit in porto, the prime minister of the polish government, mateusz morawiecki, pointed out the need to make vaccine patents available to the community, which should be treated as a common good, and those words seem to be correct. developing countries and underdeveloped countries need our help in this unequal race. let's show our solidarity in action for the good of all of us.
mr president, with the european vaccination campaign we are on the road to overcoming the pandemic; now, europeans have a date with history and we cannot just focus on our own well-being as selfish rich people, leaving the developing countries to their fate, because, let us not forget, no one is safe until we are all safe. that's why vaccine production and access must urgently increase, and we can only do that by sharing knowledge, increasing production and accelerating distribution - following president pedro sánchez's "vaccines for all" initiative. ladies and gentlemen, intellectual property cannot be an obstacle and we must temporarily liberalize patents under the wto trips agreement. we also need to limit all kinds of barriers to trade so that the vaccine reaches every corner of the world through a public-private partnership between airlines, governments and international organizations. ladies and gentlemen, let us respond together to this challenge to humanity.
mr. president, we need 11 billion vaccines a year, but we can only produce about 7,000. a global pandemic requires a global solution that ensures vaccination for the entire world population, and the european union must lead the solution with effective measures. in the short term, it is imperative to maximise global vaccine production capacity, ensure the proper functioning of supply chains, remove trade barriers and ensure distribution to every corner. but in the long run, it's not enough. mr dombrovskis, i enjoyed your speech, but i ask for more. i ask for a brave regulation on intellectual property rights that ensures that the market is not dominated by a few laboratories, that patents do not hinder access to covid vaccines, that requires the sector the necessary transparency and a cost-benefit analysis per product that allows to establish a fair and reasonable duration of patents. and finally, to have the necessary flexibility in exceptional situations for reasons of public health.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all thank you very much for today’s debate. this was a very important, complex and lively debate which shows how critical the issue is for us and for healing the world. equitable global vaccine rollout would also have hugely positive repercussions for the economy. the imf estimates that if we accelerate vaccine distribution and get the virus under control, this could add over eur 7 trillion to global gdp. i would like to reiterate the commission’s full commitment to ensuring universal and fair access to covid-19 vaccines and treatments around the world. our actions so far speak for themselves. and we are committed to doing more – as much as it takes to accelerate the global rollout. hence the proposals i presented today and our readiness to engage in other options as long as they contribute towards the objectives of expanding production and facilitating equitable access to covid-19 vaccines and therapeutics. in that context, the commission is ready to work closely with the european parliament to find solutions that are effective and that can make a real difference. many honourable members referred to the us announcement on the trips waiver. as i mentioned, we are ready to examine and discuss all options that contribute towards expanding production and facilitating equitable access to covid-19 vaccines and therapeutics. in this respect, we are ready to engage constructively to examine the extent to which proposals with a targeted and time-limited waiver would contribute towards those objectives. we need to have more information and understand what the us is planning to propose. from the announcement, we understand that it is different from the proposal made by india and south africa. we also have not yet received the announced revised text by the co-sponsors of the india and south africa proposal. this will also have to be considered. at the same time, we are under time pressure. we need more and accessible covid-19 vaccines now. so, in the short term, the european union maintains that it is key for all vaccine-producing countries to allow exports immediately and to avoid measures that disrupt supply chains. in parallel europe will do everything possible to support efficient, fast and realistic solutions for expanding production and facilitating equitable access to covid-19 vaccines and therapeutics. we are ready to walk the talk.
acting president of the council. mr president, i would first of all like to thank the european parliament for this very important debate. secondly, i would like to thank the european commission for the remarkable work it has done, not only to ensure the mass vaccination of all europeans and to contribute to universal vaccination, through the covax mechanism in particular, but also for its export capacity, europe's export capacity, of course. the questions are very important and the fundamental questions must be treated as such. we will only be protected when we are all protected, and therefore it is in our most immediate interest to contribute to making vaccines a universal public good and to ensuring that, within a reasonable time frame, all of humanity is vaccinated. to this end, all proposals are welcome and all topics should be discussed. in the world trade organisation, benefiting from the various flexibilities allowed under the trips agreement, all proposals are welcome and europe is available to discuss them. we therefore need the proposals to be presented in the necessary detail so that discussion can take place, and that is what we also want the united states to do by presenting its proposal concretely. in the meantime, we can't wait. in the meantime, we must act: first, by expanding and strengthening our production capacity, and second, by ensuring that countries which do not produce vaccines have access to them through systematic export practices. that is what europe is doing. europe stands out among the various global players in the world for its willingness and practice, which has resulted in a considerable increase in vaccine production capacity worldwide, and for the fact that it exports to other countries practically half of the vaccines produced in europe. so, all willingness to look at other ways of ensuring universal vaccination, but in the meantime, let's do what we can do now and what we can do now is increase our vaccine production capacity and all vaccine producing countries commit themselves, together with the european union, to exporting components and doses so that everyone else can have access to vaccines.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in june. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the covid-19 pandemic has affected the world in a devastating way and caused many deaths. this is a global phenomenon and no country can tackle this pandemic in isolation. as a union of states, our priority must be to vaccinate our citizens first and foremost and to that end we must increase our vaccine purchasing capacity. we see that the vaccination process is not moving as fast as we had hoped, as member states are facing a shortage of vaccines. but at the same time, we have to think and act globally, because only by ensuring that all countries have access to vaccines and vaccinate their people will we reduce the threat and spread of this pandemic globally. if we want to return to pre-pandemic life, we have to do it, because otherwise we will be condemned to constantly return to restrictions and limitations. colleagues, it is impossible to isolate oneself completely from the rest of the world. moving people has long been an integral and vital part of all of our lives, and it is now more important than ever to rally key international policy leaders to ensure that every country has access to vaccines and vaccinates its people. only by working together can we finally overcome this health crisis that has claimed too many lives and caused huge economic and social consequences around the world.
in writing. at a time when the pandemic is still threatening our health and we are all working to overcome the health crisis as quickly as possible, it is hard to understand that some countries in the world have already successfully vaccinated their citizens and others are still waiting for the first doses. injustice and disproportion have a particularly bitter taste in such a crisis. that is why i am pleased that we are discussing today in the european parliament the withdrawal of the world health organization's trips agreement. by leaving the agreement, we would facilitate the flow of knowledge, diagnostics, research, medical equipment between countries, while abandoning the protection of vaccine patents, which would allow for their accelerated production not only in developing countries, but also in the eu. my colleagues and i have already addressed a similar initiative to the commission at the beginning of march to abandon the patents, and i therefore call on all eu institutions to make a strong case for abandoning the agreement. it is time to take the side of the people and not the side of (pharmaceutical) capital. we socialists and democrats stand firmly behind this principle and are disappointed that the european liberals and conservatives in the ep are delaying the vote on the decision until next month. but we understand that we will not be safe from the virus until the whole world is safe from it.
in writing. insufficient access to covid-19 vaccines is exacerbating existing inequalities with developing countries and jeopardizing all our efforts to save lives. no one is ever going to be safe until we're all safe. it is now clear that the most effective way to fight the pandemic worldwide is to increase production capacity and share vaccines quickly and affordably. as m5s we believe that the right to health and life cannot be limited by profit and that covid-19 vaccines must become a common good and access a universal right. for these reasons, the commission should support the proposal for an initiative for the suspension of patents that hinder the expansion of production and global and rapid access to covid-19 vaccines, devices and therapies.
in writing. thanks to international collaboration, several covid vaccines have been developed in a very short time. billions of dollars of public money have been spent on research, and that's why i think everyone should have access to it. public health is a common good that knows no boundaries. no one is safe until we're all safe. vaccination in poor countries also protects those in richer parts of the world. the abolition of patent protection is not a panacea for increasing vaccine production. the bottleneck is the lack of sufficient production capacity and the shortage of raw materials and chemical reagents used to produce vaccines. the active transfer of technology to developing countries is therefore also necessary and the union should cooperate with the world trade and health organisations to this end. responding to the arguments of some member states that patent suspension will be a disincentive to innovation and research in health, i believe that these governments should buy patents from manufacturers themselves, reimbursing them for the costs incurred in developing vaccines and compensating for the loss of future profits, and then donate these patents to manufacturers in other countries. wealthy countries should be more generous in sharing vaccines with the rest of the world. however, the key is to create an efficient distribution and administration network. the cost of effectively distributing a single dose is, on average, five times higher than the cost of producing it.
mr president, as we have repeated here several times, the situation in the czech republic of clear conflict of interest of the prime minister is unsustainable. we cannot see some political groups that in every occasion want to point, and rightly so, the cases of the government of poland or hungary, but then they have no words to malta, no words to the former government of slovakia or romania, and no words to the present government of the czech republic. to defend the rule of law is to defend the rule of law without any casualties of political order. and so i would call on the renew group to be very clear on their stance, condemning the behaviour of prime minister babiš and especially what it means to our electors, to our citizens, to our public opinions. in the right moment where we are launching next generation eu funds, we cannot have any measures that can create mistrust on the transparency and on the equity of the distribution and of the use of these funds. so i call on renew to call mr babiš to resign.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we have a very interesting case here of a czech prime minister who has given his company to a fund, which is a fund that has been drawing huge amounts of eu money for years. and then, of course, the czech prime minister has influence over how these funds are spent and who gets them. it also affects how they're controlled. and if that's not enough to trigger an article 7 rule of law proceeding, what do you consider to be sufficient grounds? you're not bringing this case against the czech republic for the simple reason that his colleague is the vice president of the european commission, which is responsible for these cases, among other things. and you're very often picking on poland, which is at the top of the rankings when it comes to spending money without corruption, spending european funds efficiently. but poland is more of a nuisance than the czech republic. poland is persecuted because it is a bulwark of conservative, christian, traditional family values, and prime minister babiš can do whatever he wants. i also want to remind you that the renew group's behaviour is pathetic at the moment, which always puts the rule of law first. what about today? and today he pretends that everything is fine in the czech republic with the rule of law. this is, ladies and gentlemen, hypocrisy, this is enormous hypocrisy, this is double standards. do not be surprised if many people simply laugh at the way the european union reacts to such matters.
member of the commission. – mr president, i thank the minister and the house for the debate and i’m sure it will be not be the last one on this subject. the commission has taken decisive action again in the czech case of conflict of interest. the union budget has been and remains fully protected. as already pointed out in my introduction, the commission is also taking bold action beyond the czech case to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. for example, the commission has adopted and published detailed guidelines on conflicts of interest, and the commission will further try broadening the early detection and exclusion system to operators found to have infringed conflict of interest rules. but for this we need again your support, and i know there is a strong support. but the key word is indeed to have access and knowledge in particular of final beneficiaries and i would like to see, for instance, concrete results in the still-ongoing negotiation the cap regulation. so here i think a lot of, so to say, support and contribution is still needed and, possibly, in order again to pursue our common goals to avoid, already at the onset, potential or indeed the real conflict of interest in not only conflict of interest cases. but all these steps demonstrate that the commission is fully committed to make the prohibition of conflicts of interest and not only this element of, so to say, safeguarding taxpayers’ money a reality on the ground. the protection of the union budget is a continuous effort and i will not rest on this. but may i also recall that the union budget is only a small portion of taxpayers’ money being spent in a given country. i think ms hohlmeier was referring to it. so if we are talking about conflicts of interest, it’s not only about european taxpayers’ money, it’s also about the taxpayers’ money of nationals, of citizens in our member states. so i think this has to be a debate, not only here in the european parliament, it has to be a broad debate across all europe and, maybe, the future of europe conference can also contribute a little bit to it.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank parliament for this debate. i thank the european commission for the information it has given us and in particular for its assurance that the money from the european funds is not involved. it is very important that we protect the financial interests of the union and that we ensure that our taxpayers' money is spent properly. all instruments to protect the financial interests of the european union and to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent properly are welcome. we must also continue to identify and, when identified, to counter any conflicts of interest. the council is of course aware of the importance of the report published by the european commission in this particular case and now expects the czech republic to respond to that report and to indicate what measures it proposes to implement in order to follow up the recommendations of the audit report. we will, for our part, support the commission in what is its exclusive competence: implementing the multiannual budget and the recovery and resilience instrument and ensuring that there are no payments that are unjustified. on a question put by several members, i have to say on behalf of the council that the composition of the european council is of course defined by the treaties and, according to the treaties, it comprises the heads of state or government of the member states, in accordance with their respective constitutional rules. it is therefore for the member states to indicate who represents them in the european council, and it is not for the president of the european council or the european council as a whole to take any measure which calls into question this right of the member states to be represented in the european council, in accordance with their respective constitutional rules. the investigation of the various incidents or allegations is the responsibility of national prosecutors and judges or the european anti-fraud office and very soon also the european public prosecutor's office. i have noted the valuable information provided by commissioner johannes hahn and have listened carefully to this debate and to the concerns expressed in this debate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in june. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the comments made by my honourable colleagues clearly showed that the european parliament has embarked on yet another political punitive action. the czech republic and all member states of the union shall comply with the rules on the use of european union funds and the provisions of the financial regulation. the european commission is responsible for carrying out financial investigations, making recommendations and making any necessary corrections in the event of irregularities. the intention of the european parliament to intervene is clear: the aim is political motivation, not the defence of the eu's fundamental values, and the procedure and the decision have nothing to do with the rule of law. the czech republic follows hungary and poland, and the honourable members are surprised that the union is becoming less and less popular with its citizens. it's time to once again focus on the welfare of our citizens and recovering from the global pandemic crisis instead of the witch hunt.
we come as announced to the first round of voting today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 1 p.m. to 2.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as in previous rounds will be used. you know the whole procedure. all votes are by name. i declare the voting to be open. i ask you to exercise your right to vote by 2.15 p.m. the results of this round of voting will be announced at 7 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 1.01 p.m.)
the next item is the preliminary report by mr lukas mandla, drawn up on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 168/2007 establishing a european union agency for fundamental rights (2020/0112 ((fra)) (a9-0058/2021).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i speak in my mother tongue and i address you, ladies and gentlemen, from vienna, our capital city in austria. i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs for the really constructive and intensive negotiations. there were very, very good ideas on all sides, there was goodwill overall in the room in negotiating the new mandate of the vienna-based fundamental rights agency. and i am very pleased to say today that a long process of negotiations is coming to an end and an important vote is coming up. i think the vote is very, very important for several reasons. i am firmly convinced that we need a europe with more strength on the outside, with more geopolitical weight and with more freedom on the inside. this freedom to think and act inwardly includes the freedom to live one's beliefs and attitudes in europe without fear - indeed, without fear - and that too is part of freedom. we have been discussing the fight against anti-semitism for months in the negotiations on this new mandate for the fundamental rights agency, and just in these days when we are voting on this report in the european parliament's plenary, we have witnessed a sad low point on the streets of europe, with anti-semitic cries, with anti-semitic demonstrations. it is not acceptable, it does not belong to europe, it does not belong at all to this humanity, to this world, and we must fight it in europe in particular. i am pleased that in the report now before us we are putting a special focus on the fact that the fundamental rights agency is doing something that it has done so far with expertise and with very, very good practice, even without explicit mention of it, as it will now do, that it will do it within the framework of the mandate, as the european parliament would like to at least foresee, namely to advance the fight against anti-semitism. in future, this will not only be in the recitals, but will be explicitly part of the mandate of the fundamental rights agency. that was a focus, and i'm grateful that the co-negotiators, the shadow reporters and the shadow reporters have been able to support that. i have another important point to make when i say that i believe we need a europe with more external strength, in the interests of europeans, but also in the sense of european values, the universal values that europe represents. this is an area in which the fundamental rights agency can acquire a special importance, because it is the fundamental rights, based on human dignity, on our concept of freedom, democracy and the rule of law, that are decisive - they are the fundamental rights that europe can and should represent in the world. and that is where we are taking a big step forward with the new mandate for the fundamental rights agency, namely that in the future not only the western balkan countries - which was very, very good - can be associated with the european union's fundamental rights agency as they have been so far, but all the countries in the southern and eastern neighbourhood, the eea countries and especially - and i would like to focus on this in particular - the united kingdom and northern ireland. all these links and networks will be important for europe's external strength, for its geopolitical weight. the european union must develop in a way that gives every european the chance to be an eu citizen, even if it is a long way off. in this respect, cooperation with the united kingdom and northern ireland is essential. the time of brexit is over, the time of brexit negotiations is over. the reasons for brexit are not only in london, they are also in brussels. i think we can all have learned a lesson as well, and it is up to the current generation in politics to find a whole new form of trusting, positive, strong and robust cooperation with the united kingdom. this is of course the case with the economy, which was also at the heart of all the negotiations, but it is also the case with security, both internal and external security. we need each other here, the island and continental europe in a way, and these fields are inextricably linked to fundamental rights. so, with this new mandate of the fundamental rights agency, there is absolutely hope that, as in other areas - for example, military - in the permanent structured cooperation, where third countries can now also participate, so will countries from the eastern and southern partnership, the eea and the united kingdom and northern ireland. yes, the procedure is that the european parliament once again makes a clear proposal with this proposal for the new mandate of the fundamental rights agency. the ball is now in the court of the member states, who are urgently called upon to renew the mandate of the fundamental rights agency in general, and in particular in this field, despite the resistance which has existed in the past, as is now being presented in the parliament's report. i would therefore ask the house to approve this report on the new mandate of the fundamental rights agency.
member of the commission. – madam president, i’m happy to take part in this debate today relating to parliament’s interim report on amending the regulation establishing a european union agency for fundamental rights, known as ‘fra’. the commission’s proposal amending the fra founding regulation, tabled in june last year, was made in response to a request from this parliament and a number of member states. our proposal has two main objectives. the first is to clarify that following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the agency works within all the competences of the union – not of the former community. as a consequence, the agency also works in the area of the common foreign and security policy, the former so-called second pillar, and in the area of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, the former third pillar. the second objective of the proposal is to modernise the functioning and governance of the agency in line with a political commitment made in 2012 by parliament, the council and the commission to the so-called common approach for decentralised agencies. in the context of the envisaged modernisation of the fra regulation, we proposed removing the unnecessary multiannual framework procedure. this was also a request from parliament. as you know, this file has been blocked for half a year due to the veto of one member state. through discussions at ministerial level and other efforts, i can see that work has progressed well in the council, in particular on the inclusion of the former third pillar (police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters) in the fra remit and on the alignment of the fra regulation with the common approach for decentralised agencies, which will entail, in particular, the discontinuation of the multiannual framework procedure. this is very good news as it will enable the agency to work more independently and efficiently. our goal is now to converge all efforts and positive energies towards the swift adoption of a fully lisbon-aligned and modernised regulation for the benefit of the agency. i thank you for your attention. i am looking forward to our debate and to our common action to modernise such a very important agency for fundamental rights in the european union.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. – madam president, the european agency for fundamental rights (fra) contributes in a unique way to the promotion and protection of everybody’s fundamental rights, and gender equality is one of them. therefore, fra has to work closely with the european institute for gender equality (eige). especially with the anti—gender movement on the rise, undermining our democracy, the data provided by fra are crucial, which is why i call for the strengthening of fra’s mandate. in this regard, the committee on women’s rights and gender equality has asked for studies, above all, on the important matter of sexual and reproductive health and rights (srhr) and gender equality legislation, together with eige. in the bigger picture, we call on the council to include a requirement on gender balance on the bodies of agencies and for a gender—responsive evaluation on the current reform of fra in order to structurally reflect gender mainstreaming principles. we have to lead by example.
on behalf of the ppe group. other madam president, commissioner, we have often said here: the european union is founded on our shared values, the rule of law, the dignity of the human person, but this is reflected first and foremost in respect for fundamental rights, and when fundamental rights are not respected or even violated, parliament has never failed to defend them, to bring them up for public debate, whether outside or inside, as we have just seen this morning in the case of the czech prime minister. while it is true that the council has not always acted clearly and is often hesitant and even timid, forgetting the rule of law, we have never questioned the council's attachment to fundamental rights. that is why we are very concerned about the differences that remain in the council, where there is still no common position. however, i cannot but congratulate my colleague lukas mandl on presenting our vision of what should be a sustained and comprehensive reform of the european agency for fundamental rights. since we are only going to give our consent, it is essential that parliament can influence the council's decision and, in particular, draw the red lines. without the european agency for fundamental rights, the zeal for the rights of european citizens and citizens residing in the european union will always be undermined. your retirement must not be postponed.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, i think that the groups which make up the majority will say something quite similar about this report. the union deserves a strong and independent fundamental rights agency, which is up to par with our priorities; in fact, the union has been saying for months that it will be inflexible when the rule of law and fundamental rights are violated in any member state. the logical conclusion is that we need an agency that can meet our requirements, and we will see if the council listens to us. the council, which is not here today, shows its inability to take action when certain states block a decision, either because they are illiberal democracies or because they want to impose their individual interests on the community. we must be a little fed up. the fact that some member states are blocking the reform of the agency shows that our rules of the game make it easier for populists and the most nationalist states to do their job. we are not asking for something very complicated - my colleagues have said this - that the agency should be able to decide on which area it wants to work on and not the council, which is not here; we want the agency to be free to decide on its own initiative on what it deems appropriate and necessary, and also to have a clear and defined role when an article 7 infringement procedure is under way. finally, the agency must be able to observe and to express itself on what is necessary, and i do not want us to be fed up and ashamed of our priorities turning into empty words; i do not know whether this cry is being heard in the council.
thank you very much, mr ambassador, but i would like to refer to rule 10 (1) of the rules of procedure, which sets out the rules of procedure. as a reminder, members shall conduct themselves with mutual respect and shall be guided by the values and principles laid down in the treaties, in particular the charter of fundamental rights. members respect the dignity of parliament and do not damage its reputation. it's a pity the ambassador didn't have his headphones on.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! but i will be a critical voice and i hope that it will be taken up. unfortunately, the agency has made offensive comments and criticisms of the internal policies of some member states. the commission has been able to take a number of important decisions in this area, including the adoption of the new regulation on the common organisation of the market in bananas. the agency has repeatedly stepped outside the institutional and independent framework, not keeping its distance in the debate, and thus taking sides in the political dispute. it has forgotten the motto of the next european parliament: united in diversity. today we are debating a document that increases the powers of the fundamental rights agency and gives new mechanisms of action. it will be able to assess member states on issues such as migration, border protection and women's rights. i would just like to remind you that not all countries have ratified the charter of fundamental rights on which the agency is based. we also do not have a common immigration policy, and frontex is now in charge of border protection and surveillance. as for the new powers in article 7 no agency, no unelected, anonymous official, should, with all due respect, ever assess the internal policy of a member state. if we go down this road, we are heading towards a bureaucratic autocracy and the creation of a bureaucratic leviathan managed from brussels. instead of creating an economic and financial community from which all of europe benefits, we are moving towards a community of imposed ideas and values, a community of infringement of the sovereignty of the member states and of the traditional values derived from the three hills of the acropolis, the capitol and golgotha. the values that have built europe over the centuries, and which the left and the agencies that support it, unfortunately, are so openly fighting. we therefore strongly oppose any attempt to give the fundamental rights agency additional powers and to strengthen the powers it already has. we do so in the interests of the continued harmonious and coherent functioning of the european union. the agency should be impartial and apolitical.
madam president, commissioner reynders, i have the honour of chairing the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and there is not a single occasion when i speak in this capacity that i do not stress that, since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, this european parliament has been a legislator on fundamental rights, and that, among many others, is one of the reasons why we appreciate the work of the fundamental rights agency so much. its director appears regularly before the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs; we pay close attention to his reports and appreciate his commitment, which has expanded the initial mandate to combat hate crimes leading to hate crimes and to safeguard the european commitment against all forms of discrimination, particularly that directed against stigmatised groups: islamophobia, gypsyophobia, anti-semitism and lgbtiophobia are always at the heart of the european parliament's concerns. but i would like to say that we are committed to a revival of this commitment, through the reform of the fundamental rights agency's regulations, to give it initiative, greater commitment in judicial and criminal cooperation, and to make its report and its analysis work - always well documented - meaningful, inspired by the policies of the european union and its member states, and by cooperation agreements with third countries.
madam president, we support the efforts of the commission and this parliament to clarify and enhance the important role of the agency for fundamental rights. however, any efforts to make the agency a more robust instrument are doomed as long as the institutions of the union, including the agency, stay silent to flagrant violations of fundamental rights in some member states. as we speak, many political prisoners are sitting in jail in spain and hundreds of catalan citizens suffer persecution for exercising their right to protest. and yet the institutions, the self-proclaimed guarantors of fundamental rights, remain silent. the united nations working group of arbitrary detention has called for the release of the political prisoners. amnesty international has called for this release. the union’s silence is deafening. perhaps, in the light of this, you will excuse my scepticism about the grand plans for the future of europe.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is more than 11 years since the charter of fundamental rights of the european union became legally binding, but above all at national and local level, work is still needed to unlock its full potential. and the pandemic, which has exacerbated previous inequalities and risks creating new ones, has shown us how essential it is to ensure that fundamental rights are consistently respected. the proposal to amend the fra's rules of procedure, which we are discussing today, is a step in this direction: it is necessary to update the mandate of fra to align it with the other gai agencies, improving its governance and efficiency and to clarify that, after the lisbon treaty, the scope of fra's activities covers the competences of the union, including not only police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters but also the common foreign and security policy and the respect of fundamental rights at the external borders of the union. the new regulation should also give the fra a proactive role in respecting the rule of law, including in the context of cross-compliance to protect the union budget, and the possibility to issue opinions and carry out investigations on its own initiative. increased efficiency, better management and programming and legal certainty will enable the fra to increase support to eu institutions and agencies and member states in the promotion and protection of fundamental rights.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in its report on the extension of the expertise provided by the european union agency for fundamental rights, parliament rightly points out that it should cover all areas of union competence. i'd like to address two of them in my talk. first, the rule of law: the agency has a huge role to play in providing data and legal and social analysis. the agency may formulate opinions either on its own initiative or at the request of the parliament, the council or the commission. the number of such applications is increasing, but there are still too few. i believe that the eu institutions should make extensive use of the agency's expertise. and in the context of the article 7 procedures and in the context of the budgetary conditionality of the union. the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are necessary to achieve the objective of the common interest. secondly, research by the agencies should also cover issues of cultural and linguistic minorities in the european union. this is the position of the european citizens' initiative minority safepack. let us not forget the landmark judgment of the court of justice of the european union. respect for and promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity is one of the objectives of the european union. and this objective must be achieved for all minorities, including my own silesian. in poland, the census is underway. a few hundred thousand people will declare themselves slavs and speak in slavonic because they have the right to do so. and the authorities in warsaw continue to remain deaf to our rights, but we will make noise to the effect. no doubt about it.
i'm closing the debate. the vote on the amendments will take place today, i.e. 19 may 2021, and the final vote tomorrow, i.e. 20 may 2021.
the next item is the report by mrs sylvie guillaume, drawn up on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on new ways of legal labour migration (2020/2010(ini)) (a9-0143/2021).
madam president! and labor migration is not just the import of cheap labor as a factor of production, but the influx of people with their families, their habits, and ultimately their cultural values. the balance of benefits and costs of immigration must take into account factors such as educational attainment, cultural proximity, and the like, so that we can optimize the economic benefits of cheap labor, the lack of skilled workers in the european union labor market, and the social and political costs of migration due to the need to integrate into the host societies of immigrants and their families. it should be stressed that the european union's competences in the field of migration are very limited. it is up to the member states - i stress - to decide how many and what kind of immigrants they need. we all remember 2015, when, to fill the gaps in the market, in this case the german market, chancellor angela merkel made her famous härzlich willkommen during this new kind of people's march. what was the result? yes, the uncontrolled flow of illegal migrants into germany, and as a consequence, countries that were skeptical of such a policy from the beginning, including my country, poland, were punished. we remember that the countries of central and eastern europe were threatened with financial sanctions because they followed common sense and not the irresponsible policy of germany with its famous härzlich willkommen.
madam president, please. you rewrote both the posting directive and the mobility package to the detriment of eastern european workers and carriers in order to protect your own market. now that there is no one to pick asparagus from the fields, they care for the elderly, the sick, work in slaughterhouses, construction, agriculture, the hospitality industry, instead of creating fair working conditions for their own citizens, instead of talking about filling the vacant jobs with people from outside the eu. i object to the fact that the solution is not seen in eu citizens, but in immigrants from outside the european union. we must return to the spirit of the treaty, which guarantees the free movement of persons and services. we put the well-being and dignity of our own citizens first.
madam president, there is a growing demand for workers in specific sectors and professions in the european union. today the question is not whether to attract workers to fill these gaps, but how to do it. how do we overcome the most significant barriers third-country nationals face in the eu labour market and living environment? i would like to concentrate on the latter and the most important barrier: discrimination. as rightly pointed out by the committee on employment and social affairs, discrimination, along with linguistic, educational and institutional factors, is the most significant barrier for third-country nationals. as a consequence of our efforts to foster new avenues for legal labour migration into the eu, we need to make sure that anti-discrimination laws and policies are present in all member states. not only on paper, but in practice. dignity and equality are matters of basic human rights, but also have a significant economic dimension.
i'm closing the debate. the vote on the amendments will take place today, i.e. 19 may 2021, and the final vote will take place tomorrow, i.e. 20 may 2021. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the report by deirdre clune on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on 'shaping europe's digital future: removing barriers to the functioning of the digital single market and better using ai for the benefit of european consumers' (2020/2216 (ini)) (a9-0149/2021).
mr. chairman, please! we have seen a strong year-on-year increase in the interest in trade and services in the digital single market. artificial intelligence is an important technology that can benefit consumers and businesses, provided that their fundamental rights and values are respected. clear regulations should ensure consumer protection, inter alia, in addressing the problems of unfair commercial practices. the use of artificial intelligence in e-commerce can help to monitor products online, which should prevent customers from buying unknown goods, mostly from third countries. in order to deploy ai efficiently, it is important to build trust in the system among consumers and businesses. it is important to remember that the primary value of innovative solutions should always be the human being.
mr. chairman, please! the digital revolution is often compared to the industrial revolution in terms of the leap in civilization that it has brought. in agriculture, ai is not yet widely used and its potential could significantly impact the sector's performance. the world's population is expected to exceed 9 billion by 2050, with a huge population to feed and the eu's action on environmental policies promoting less extensive, organic farming with less production capacity. it is therefore necessary to implement innovative solutions in agriculture that will improve production practices and reduce the consumption of resources. in particular, the resolution calls for the priority to be given to securing adequate zoning for small and medium-sized farms, reducing the risk of rural job losses associated with the use of new technologies and ensuring that horizon europe funding for agriculture is equitably shared between western and eastern european countries.
mr. chairman, we are witnessing a global competition for leadership in digital technology. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment, in particular by providing information on the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. given the scale of the economic challenge of competing with non-eu economies, it is crucial that the regulatory and investment frameworks are well aligned so that national institutions and businesses can work to the benefit of the european ecosystem as a whole and national economies. i share the view that the european union should strengthen its position in ai ecosystems and along ai value chains, from certain hardware manufacturing sectors to software and services. future regulations in this area should therefore provide a clear and easy-to-use framework. one of the key tasks is to provide regulations that inspire citizens' trust and encourage them to take advantage of the benefits offered by ai.
madam president, environmental damage causes significant risks to human health and life. hazardous and harmful chemicals and industrial practices destroy whole ecosystems. ecocide is our reality now. and it is a cross-border reality. ask the silesian, polish, czech and german local communities close to the turów lignite mine. yet our european environmental liability rules are not only outdated but also applied in a sporadic manner to the detriment of the environment and, often, of companies with a sustainable business model – but to the benefit of those who act as though there were a planet b. well, there isn’t, and we have to act accordingly. we need a proper revision of our environmental liability laws. very often, we hear that eu policy on environmental matters is ‘too ambitious’. well, in our times, environmental ambition is not only a necessity; it is a matter of self-preservation.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, whose high culture and approach to finding solutions are worthy of recognition, and the commissioner, who in his speech points out what many meps have observed: that an analysis of the aarhus convention and the 2006 regulation shows that these instruments are working, that is, that we have become accustomed to the european union, to european union citizens, to being able to organise themselves, to not only demand information, to obtain information, but also to have justice done. i am also grateful to the commissioner for pointing out that some of our amendments go beyond the convention and beyond the regulation. indeed, we must be very careful when increasing the competences of ngos, because they have full rights, and are also heavily financed by the european union, and have the opportunity to develop and assert their rights, to take care of order, society and the environment. at the same time, we have been watching with concern the amendments that have been proposed, which provide for the inclusion and extension of the group of unspecified persons. moreover, we could not define who else could be described, and we have given whether we want to give competence to the commission, i.e. we say that the commission should decide by means of a delegated act. we are dangerously allowing the commission (with all due respect to the commission) to take over or to assume powers which are not its own. i would also like to draw your attention to the amendment to the ecr which wants the european union to be absolutely transparent and that the regulation should list all ngos together with their founders. this is important. then we'll know who's representing who. and then finally. there's a question of how we define an administrative act. the ecr has a proposal, too.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, let me thank you for the very useful and frank debate today. such an important issue as access to justice in environmental matters and our compliance with international law deserves our full attention and our frankness. i hope i have explained our current reflections and comments at this stage of the legislative procedure in my introductory remarks so i will not repeat them in detail now, but i want to underline very clearly that the importance of this revision of the aarhus regulation cannot be emphasised too highly. access to justice in environmental matters is more important than ever and is for the eu indeed a matter of credibility and legitimacy. let me briefly say a word on the advice of the aarhus compliance committee. we are confident that a political agreement between the institutions, coupled with the two follow-ups to the priority actions identified by the communication on national-level access to justice, will address all issues to the extent allowed by the eu legal order. the commission will do its utmost to support the council and the european parliament in this endeavour. the eu and its member states will make preparations and work closely to ensure that, when the findings come to the meeting of the parties for decision making in october 2021, the eu will be able to take a united approach. it is important to understand that the question of compliance with the convention is ultimately decided by the parties at the meeting of the parties. i am confident that further discussions and negotiations, coupled with the necessary ambition, pragmatism and spirit of compromise will allow us to find a mutually acceptable agreement in the upcoming trilogues. it will not be easy, but i take from tonight’s debate that we share a willingness to conclude the revision of the aarhus regulation and to take a united approach with a view to the october meeting of the parties. i can reassure you personally, on behalf of the commission, that we will do everything we can to facilitate an agreement between the co-legislators in the upcoming trilogue. once again, thank you for your important work and i look forward to our further discussions on this file.
in writing. without the participation of civil society and the control by organisations of the environmental activities of public institutions, environmental protection will not be effective. the aarhus convention guarantees access to justice in this area. unfortunately, the eu regulation that was supposed to oblige the eu institutions and bodies to comply with the provisions is not working. moreover, the revision proposed by the ec will not eliminate all incompatibilities between the convention and eu law. the importance of effectively implementing the convention into national legal systems is well known to the inhabitants of areas where industrial breeding farms are planned or already in existence. the difficulty of access to information on planned investments, the narrow range of entities considered as parties in administrative proceedings, the ignoring of the voices of citizens, and the limited access to justice prevent local communities from having a real influence on decisions. and these decisions have huge direct consequences for the health, quality of life and daily functioning of these people, preventing the exercise of the right to a clean environment and other human rights. it is time for eu law to be on the side of the people living in the countryside, not on the side of the livestock industry.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in times of crisis, tax fraud has increased and tax evasion is less acceptable than ever. so we have to fight the abuses, and especially the clever vato mafia, using the most advanced technology available. europe cannot afford aggressive tax planning that results in a loss of €140 billion a year. europe cannot afford a vat gap of nearly €180 billion a year. the single market of the european union must be competitive on equal terms for all operators. the rapid, efficient and systematic exchange of information and experience between member states in the field of tax systems, and in particular of new methods of tax evasion, is of the utmost importance. i therefore believe that the continuation of fiscalis is justified and can bring tangible benefits in terms of increased revenue to member states' budgets. now fiscalis will be more flexible and easier to operate. it is the modern information systems supporting the exchange of information between the member states of the european union that will make it possible to carry out tax audits efficiently and to combat unfair practices. i am convinced that the polish experts will make a great contribution to this programme. poland is already an example of how to combat the vato mafia effectively and other member states will be able to benefit from our experience.
i'm closing the joint debate. the vote on the amendments will take place today, 20 may 2021. as for the motions for resolutions on the data protection commissioner v facebook ireland limited, maximillian schrems (schrems ii) - case c-311/18, the final vote will be held today. the vote on the motions for resolutions will be held at the end of the day. as for the draft resolution on adequate protection of personal data by the united kingdom, it will take place tomorrow, i.e. 21 may 2021.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on equality, social inclusion and participation of roma (2021/2689 ((rsp)).
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the roma population is the largest ethnic minority in europe. it is estimated that of the 10-12 million roma living in europe, around 6 million are citizens or hold the presidency of the european union. roma are still a marginalized group. there are many reasons for this phenomenon, but one of the main ones is undoubtedly the intra-cultural barrier. the roma have been living in poland for over 700 years . this minority numbered about 20-25 thousand people. my country has been working for many years to implement a roma integration strategy. as a former minister of the interior in the government of the republic of poland, responsible for national and ethnic minorities, i can proudly say that poland was a decade ahead of the european commission, as we implemented a programme of stable funding and integration of this minority in 2001. a further multiannual roma integration programme covering in particular education, health, culture, security, knowledge promotion and civic education for roma is currently being implemented in poland for the period 2021-2030. however, it is clear that none of these programmes will fully meet the requirement of full integration of this group. why would you do that? perhaps the question is on the part of the roma minority itself.
madam president! roma and gypsies are the largest ethnic minority in the european union. they are citizens and residents of the union, yet they are still denied fundamental rights in many member states. in poland, successive governments ignored the roma community for decades, preferring not to see the exclusion, discrimination, and conditions in which they lived and still live. it was easier than solving problems. these years of neglect were highlighted by the pandemic, which left many roma children without access to education. the health-threatening living conditions in roma settlements, such as the lack of running water, have now become a threat to life. women are particularly hard hit. romnia, or romani in romani, experience discrimination, face difficulties in accessing education, healthcare and employment, and are excluded from their community or from being part of it. they are affected by violence, including racially motivated violence. the european commission's latest framework strategy for equal treatment of roma and roma women sets out concrete objectives, but will the commission once again stop at empty promises and empty words?
(addressing the member for romeo franz) i would inform the honourable member that if this is a formal request, the formal request shall be made one hour before the beginning of the sitting. if it is a formal request, you should have submitted it one hour before the sitting began: that is the rule now.
i would like to address all those present, and especially those of you who have expressed your views. i'm here to inform you that due to our pandemic-processing, you are not permitted to respond, speak, or make formal submissions. it should be done an hour before the sitting starts, but of course i understand your emotions, and i will pass this information on to the president of the parliament, because only he can change the way things are done during a pandemic.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on six draft resolutions on prisoners of war captured during the recent conflict between armenia and azerbaijan (2021/2693 ((rsp))*._______________* look at the minutes of the meeting.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. in poland, under the act on crop and livestock insurance, the government grants subsidies from the state budget to the contributions of agricultural producers for the conclusion of insurance contracts against incidents such as frostbite. this aid includes preferential loans, financial support for the payment of current social security contributions, deferral of certain payments by farmers and agricultural tax relief. climate change is making climate disasters more and more common. as part of the reform of the cap, we are discussing changes to the current crisis reserve. the coronavirus crisis has shown that such a change is necessary to prevent huge financial losses for farmers and help them get back on their feet. but the coronavirus crisis was and in fact still is an unprecedented crisis. droughts, frosts, floods and other random events are inherent in agricultural activity. we should therefore be prepared to deal with this problem at eu level. april 2021 was the coldest in poland in 24 years. the may frost has affected farmers across europe and its effects are tragic. frost in this crucial period can destroy the entire year's harvest of grapes or seriously impair the quality of apples and other fruits and vegetables, affecting not only farmers but also consumers. in the context of market intervention operations, it is appropriate to request the european commission to mobilise the crisis reserve for the implementation of the measures to counter market disturbances established by the european commission in the form of implementing acts pursuant to article 219 of the regulation establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products. i therefore ask the european commission to mobilise a crisis reserve in the event of similar natural disasters to help fruit growers and, as a result, to limit the increase in fruit prices for consumers.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. we are in the european parliament, a very important place where legislation is being made, and it is precisely this legislation that we must make in order to take account of the needs and expectations of small and mediumsized enterprises. small and medium-sized businesses know what to do. they want to be part of climate change, part of digitizing their companies. they need funds and i think we should also give the green light to the european commission today to give an advance to small and medium-sized enterprises sooner, because they will be able to start rebuilding their businesses sooner after the crisis. i firmly believe that this gallop towards the big climate targets that have been prepared here, also in parliament, must be slowed down, because otherwise, if we act disproportionately towards small and medium-sized enterprises, the requirements that have been prepared here will simply kill more small and medium-sized enterprises. and we want to help them, and we have the means. so let's give them a chance to function. they should really have more time and opportunity. and let's get rid of these burdens that just cause small and medium-sized businesses to have to file a lot of information in bad legal systems. it's a drain on them. it causes them to be stuck in place, not to grow. so let's give them a chance through smart legislation and good post-covid responses.
mr president, smes are the largest employers and the backbone of the european economy. as a recent sme europe survey showed, many of them face existential difficulties. they need to fundamentally improve access to financial resources and break down existing bureaucratic barriers. many of them also face problems not linked to european regulation but to the interpretation of european rules at national level. the so-called gold plating significantly reduces the competitiveness of these important job creators. i therefore welcome the discussion which seeks to reduce red tape in the spirit of the one in one out principle, but it is also important to look at the implementation of these rules. so the european commission should not only look after the european legal framework at the european level, but i believe it should also monitor the implementation of these rules at the national level. i appreciate the establishment of the sme envoy position and believe that the position we have long called for will work with us in the european parliament to improve the position of small businesses. the 24 million smes deserve attention not only in terms of reduced regulation but also in terms of real support in the current situation, where they have survived only because of their innovation. this european regulation should not be a brake, but on the contrary, should help to accelerate the development of small businesses.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. small and medium-sized enterprises are particularly affected by the coronavirus pandemic. this is all the more bitter when we all know that these small and mediumsized enterprises are the engine of innovation in our european union. the best example of this is the company biontech, a medium-sized company with 100 employees, which is giving hope to so many people today with its mrna technology - a technology that hopefully will also play a big role in fighting cancer one day. we must radically reduce the administrative burden on our companies, remove the obstacles and barriers to our smes. and it has been said: the 'one in, one out' system is good, we need it, but it is far from sufficient. less is more. i think we need a moratorium on corporate taxation. no legislative proposal, commissioner, can ever again be put on the table of this house, or go to the council, without first undergoing a critical assessment of the legal implications. we need to bring the sme test back to life. it needs to be clear: when something new is required of our companies, what are the pressures on our companies? the best thing to do is to put as little pressure on our companies as possible, right now, in this difficult time. the digital transformation and the green deal requirements will be particularly challenging for our companies. that's why the need for relief is urgent.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! small and medium-sized enterprises are the driving force behind the eu economy. they provide almost two thirds of all jobs and generate half of europe's gdp. the same applies to the member states. the wielkopolska region, where i am a member of parliament, has for years been the leader in poland in terms of the number of active small and medium-sized enterprises employing thousands of people. better legislation, less administrative burden and less cost are needed to enable these companies to operate efficiently internationally in the single market. i think the european commission is right in this respect. however, experience of the pandemic has shown that we should avoid the one-in-one-out approach proposed by the european commission, which is to reduce administrative burdens automatically. those charges should always be proportionate and necessary. i therefore believe that the commission, when proposing to reduce the burden, should be guided primarily by considerations of purpose and efficiency rather than by mere arithmetic.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. sorry to barge in so early, but we're under a strict curfew in france. a biodiversity strategy is very important, very important for the future of the world, for the future of nature, of nature. in order for it to be realized, in order for these ambitious goals to be achieved, it has to meet a few conditions that are not mentioned here. somebody has to do it. farmers, foresters, fishermen. they all work for the government. there's not enough of them here, they need our support. the biodiversity strategy does not indicate the sources of funding. this is a big problem, because to achieve ambitious goals, you have to indicate how you're going to achieve those goals. finally, we have a lot of very vague definitions that will be a problem in implementing this strategy. and finally, the strategy includes elements that we've already discussed and that we've already written into climate law. here they come again, in a completely different, uncoordinated tone. that doesn't bode well for the implementation of this strategy. it's important, you know.
in writing. biodiversity is access to clean water and clean air. biodiversity is about materials and raw materials, it's about food security, and most importantly, it's about the health of animals and us humans. now we take responsibility for future generations! investments in nature conservation and restoration must be based on detailed research, evaluation of these solutions and, above all, on specific sources of funding. finally, we have a strategy with many uncertainties, no environmental, social and economic impacts of implementation - and yet very ambitious goals to achieve! why has the ec not drawn on the experience and expertise of the member states? my country, poland, is a country with a high level of biodiversity in europe, where protected areas represent over 30% of the land area, where populations of many species, such as otters, bison, beavers, are being restored. so we can effectively protect biodiversity. the greatest expectations were placed on the agricultural and forestry sectors. we must remember that pursuing overly ambitious goals can endanger our food security or reduce the competitiveness of polish and european agriculture. we cannot allow food to be imported from third countries with lower environmental standards. that would be a loss globally, not a benefit to the environment and the climate. the eu cannot make far-reaching changes to the management of forest resources. this is extremely dangerous for the continuity of sustainable forest management in individual countries. forests and forestry are the competence of the member states.
in writing. agriculture, in particular industrial livestock and pastureland production, is the most important cause of environmental degradation, negative land use change and habitat destruction, accounting for 80% of all land use change in the world. as the chatham house report points out, the process of loss of previously intact ecosystems has been affecting the most biodiverse regions of the world with the greatest intensity in recent decades, mainly as a result of converting forests into areas used for soya production for animal feed and for raising cows. in just 20 years, from 1980 to 2000, 42 million hectares of tropical forests in latin america were lost to the development and intensification of livestock farming. to avoid further deforestation, the extinction of valuable species, or the increasing pollution of the environment, we must move away from the still-existing "standard" of cheap, unhealthy, and unethical food. we need to put the common agricultural policy back on track and radically revise the eu's trade agreements, including those between the eu and the mercosur countries and between the eu and china. we have a responsibility to protect precious and threatened ecosystems, to protect human rights and to build a system of animal rights. we have to set the highest standards in this area. so far, eu strategies are just empty words, and the last 20 months of the new ec have been wasted.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the effective protection of the external borders of the european union, especially in the face of new and increasing threats, is our common duty and responsibility, not just that of the border states. customs services play a key role in controlling the flow of goods at the external border and in protecting economic interests and the safety of citizens. in carrying out these tasks, they should receive support similar to that which other border and police services have received for years. the draft regulation responds to longstanding and consistent requests by poland and a number of member states for financial support for the equipment of control equipment. the implementation of the instrument will make a significant contribution to the adequate and equivalent performance of customs controls through the purchase, maintenance and upgrading of equipment, which will clearly translate into a strengthening of the security of all of us. and that's what we should care about.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it should be emphasised that the covid certificate is intended to facilitate the exercise of free movement and not to be a condition for it. in accordance with article 21 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, every citizen of the union has the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states. the commission has therefore decided to extend the deadline for the adoption of the measures to the end of the year, in order to allow the member states to continue to apply the measures in force until the end of the year. however, there are a number of groups of people who are not yet vaccinated, e.g. not in the target group, cannot be vaccinated for medical or age reasons, or do not want to be vaccinated, and must be able to continue to exercise their fundamental right to free movement, subject to restrictions such as mandatory testing, self-isolation or quarantine, if necessary. i would like to emphasise that this regulation cannot be interpreted as establishing an obligation or a right to vaccinate.
mr president, this debate coincides with an optimism that hasn’t been felt over the last year and a half, an optimism bolstered by the eu’s successful campaign where results were achieved without resorting to vaccine nationalism. i welcome the digital green certificate, not just as a means of helping many businesses open their doors again, but as a way of reconnecting families – reuniting mothers with their sons, nieces and nephews meeting their uncles and aunts for the first time, or those finally getting to see a loved one to share the personal touch that helps so much when dealing with grief. the green certificate has been subject to a misinformation campaign that has unfortunately – and intentionally – created anxiety about denial of rights to freedom of movement. this is not the case as the certificate would facilitate the exercise of free movement, not hinder it, by allowing safe travel and creating a more harmonised approach. all people vaccinated and non-vaccinated should benefit from a digital green certificate when travelling in the eu. those who have not yet been vaccinated, or do not wish to be vaccinated, will still be able to exercise their eu right to freedom of movement by means of mandatory testing or quarantine depending on destination assessment procedures, and this should be cheap or preferably free. for my own country of ireland, international connectivity is critical to our place in the world, with many jobs and livelihoods depending on it. this certificate will help inject life back into sectors such as tourism, hospitality and aviation, which have suffered to a great extent during the pandemic. it is something that i welcome and congratulate those who were involved in drawing it up.
mr president, i would like to thank you. many have felt the longing to travel. whether we cross the border to work, study, go on vacation, or visit family, we long to get away without too much trouble. the european covid certificate is a tool that helps us to assess the risk of infection of each person entering the community, and that is a good thing. it is good for citizens and businesses, it is good for the single market. but it can't stand alone. we still need all countries to ensure an effective, comprehensive and free trial effort until even more europeans have been vaccinated. this is the best way to control the spread of the disease, and fortunately the eu is also contributing money to this. the coronavirus certificate is not here to stay, just as the coronavirus pandemic is not here to stay. but as we get through the final phase of the pandemic, the certificate will make it easier for us to travel across europe. that is why i fully support the agreement that has been reached and that is why all that remains is to say good summer and a very good journey.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the pandemic has forced governments to take exceptional measures and impose severe restrictions on travel. but this has now been overcome by mass vaccination and a system of rapid and effective virus buffer control. the european union's covid-19 certificate, which we are approving today, allows the free movement of european citizens to be restored, albeit with many limitations. we know that even with the certificate we should act with great caution, but with this instrument we put in place all the necessary safeguards to minimize the risk of contagion and regain our freedom of movement. that is why we have not understood the resistance of the member states, who have delayed its introduction until the end. the free movement of people is a cornerstone of europe and the single market. i would not like to hide behind health reasons the ever-present fascination with borders.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! we all want to get back to normal. it's obvious. the advent of vaccines has provided a respite and allowed the situation to be brought under control without the need to continue the lockdowns that have been ravaging europe's economies. however, the number of people vaccinated is still too small to think about a safe future and finally overcoming the pandemic. so, first and foremost, we need to counter the massive negative propaganda and misinformation against vaccines and encourage more people to get vaccinated. i've been vaccinated myself, and i know the peace and security that it gives not only to me, but also to those who work with me, to my family. but as europeans, we must, in the long term, first and foremost, find an effective and safe vaccine that will eventually allow us to return to normal and protect the unvaccinated. especially those who can't get vaccinated through no fault of their own. so from this place, i want to end by saying a big thank you to all the healthcare community for fighting this pandemic and to the vaccine teams for doing so much for our health.
mr. chairman, please! yes, today we can be happy, because the eu covid certificate shows that together the european parliament and the european commission can quickly find a response to the needs, to the social expectations of our citizens. we fight for health together. together we can restore economic normality, freedom of movement (one of the four fundamental freedoms of europe), and a safe holiday (an important expectation of our citizens). now it is indeed in the hands of the governments of the member states to implement the certificates quickly, but i also wanted to highlight and join those critical voices against those governments that have not allowed, have not agreed to free testing for cross-border workers. they especially need extra support. the call therefore for an increase in the amount to be provided for testing, which should be available in particular to cross-border workers.
we support the introduction of new non-regressive union own resources, to repay loans, of course. the fairest sources, the new sources, should be based on those who benefit most and most, whether from the single market or economic and monetary integration. and that's what international transnational corporations are. under the 'beneficiary pays' principle, they should bear the burden of certain eu revenues. we support a digital tax, a financial transaction tax and a single market levy. we're waiting for details on cebam. we are open to this discussion because we are aware of the challenges facing the union, but we do not agree to take away the revenue from emissions trading from countries, because this would deprive for example poland of budget revenues, which are entirely earmarked for the fight for a better climate. so you cannot go into the pockets of the poor countries when you want to improve the situation of all the countries in the european union.
(speech begins outside the microphone) ..is supposed to provide additional financial support to rebuild economies devastated by lockdowns. but is that really the goal? the commission is, however, given the non-treaty right to levy taxes and to collect debts, which is an attribute of a sovereign state. national recovery plans are not intended to be comprehensive development strategies in line with the vision of the member states. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. this means restructuring the current economic model of some countries and moving away from low-cost sources of energy derived from their own natural resources, such as coal, which may weaken economies rather than rebuild them. so is the fund really intended to strengthen the economies of the member states or to restrict the sovereignty of the states? the fact that the national recovery plan will ultimately be approved by the council provides a guarantee of the effectiveness of the states. this is the reason why parliament, under the pretext of democratic control, is trying to interfere with the process. it's not allowed. there's too much politics in this place already.
mr president, since the beginning of the european union, the resources put on the table have never been so large. but the challenge ahead has never been greater. we all agree that recovery must be swift, orderly and fair. it must promote convergence between economies and also promote cohesion. and i say to the states that they are obliged to reduce inequalities, because it is article 175 of the treaty, which aims at cohesion, which is the basis of the regulation on the levy, and no one should forget that. that is why, mr vice-president dombrovskis, the european commission will have to guarantee the cohesion of national plans. and for that, as chairman of the committee on regional development, we are counting on you and we will be very careful that nothing in the recovery does harm cohesion and does not aggravate territorial fractures, as commissioner ferreira said to our committee on regional development.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! the reconstruction fund, and therefore the national reconstruction plans, should fulfil two conditions. the first is, as the name of the fund suggests, to rebuild what's been destroyed over the last dozen months, to rebuild jobs, to rebuild businesses that have been hit by the crisis, to rebuild those who have lost their livelihoods due to the restrictions that have been put in place in the wake of the covid-19 pandemic. secondly, the money from the reconstruction fund should provide a stimulus that will be beneficial and visible not just in the next few years but in the next few decades, and will be shared not only by our generation but also by future generations of europeans. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, every citizen of the european union should have the right and the knowledge of how this money is to be spent. the system for distributing this money must be extremely transparent and fair, because this money is not borrowed, as is commonly said, by the european commission or by the governments of the member states. we all borrow this money, europeans. and all europeans will pay back this money not just now, but over the next few decades. that is why everyone should have the right today, not just the european parliament, to decide where this money is going and how it is going to be spent in the future.
president, we are working very hard to get out of the crisis fairly. at the social summit, europe chose a new path with better jobs and the fight against poverty. the government leaders have signed up to these goals and the plans they are making now for the resilience and recovery fund should therefore contribute to achieving these social goals. the ink of porto is not even dry yet, but if you do not want to lose the confidence of workers in europe, then member states cannot start now to reform their pension systems or to reduce the minimum wage. and in some countries, it is already threatening to do so. the commission should assess in advance the national rff plans on how they contribute to the implementation of the social pillar. the country-specific recommendations should contribute to the achievement of the social objectives of the rfm and not the other way around. and of course, as a final word, involve the social partners. they know best what's going on in the workplace.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when we decided to take a huge loan together across the eu countries, it was a big decision. we did it so we could all get through this crisis. we were gonna spend the money now and pay the bill later. today, i think we should try to look forward to the year 2058, when the last installment of our great debt will be paid. by then, my little girl will have grown up. it's her and the rest of the future generation that's gonna pay off our crown debt. and they already have enough bills to pay. they have to pay for climate change, they have to pay for an increasing aging population and perhaps also for new crises. we owe it to them to spend that money on setting a sustainable direction for the society we pass on. we agreed that the money would contribute to our climate goals. we've agreed that the money should go to new initiatives so they have an extra impact on the economy. we have agreed that with the money comes reform, so that countries must show that they are going to improve their economic systems. so, dear commission, dear council, remember the agreements we have made. we are not used to looking at the demands we agreed on. we can't just keep our hands to ourselves now. we owe it to the next generation to leave them a greener planet and a more robust economy. especially when they're the ones who end up paying.
mr president, commission vice-president, i think the success of this european investment fund is being made now. we’ve seen the plans, but we also see that at this moment the commission is in negotiations on the exact details of the plan. and there is the danger, because last year, when we all were standing behind this, it was called the next generation plan, so a plan for the next generation. and that’s why, when money goes into digitalisation and green investment, it really should be for a next generation. it should not be the so-many-times negotiation between the commission and member states in a very intransparent way leading to some sort of ‘ok, this is good enough’. no. we expect strict implementation of the commission so that the success is really being made and that this fund is really a next generation. and if you are not sure, make sure that in the implementation, in the milestones that you agree in your implementation, that also those milestones are very strict, so that if later on member states do not spend accordingly, you can still correct, because otherwise the next generation plan will be the only one. and that’s not what we want.
mr president, as the european parliament, and as a political group, let us co-create this unprecedented mechanism to address the impact of the pandemic and build resilient economies, inclusive societies. we are proud of this historic achievement, the practical value of which depends on its proper use, on the basis of the agreed regulation. the european parliament's role is therefore important in overseeing the process in the framework of democratic control. so, because more democracy never hurt, we emphasize the following: first, member states' plans should aim to support those in need - public health, workers, young people, vulnerable groups, culture, smes, the environment, etc. - within the framework of the pillars set out in the regulation; secondly, the social dimension should be included in the projects on the basis of social indicators and criteria, as derived from the principles of the european pillar of social rights; thirdly, member states must consult effectively with the social partners and national parliaments, and this should be reflected in the assessment of member states' priorities. finally, the success of the mechanism requires equal access by all, especially smes and start-ups, and not just by large organisations.
mr president, in drawing up the recovery plans and, despite the requirement to hold a consultation with stakeholders, member states have involved regional and local governments only to a very small extent, and some of them to no extent at all. during the implementation of the plans this has to change. governments, like the catalan government but also many others, have the will, the capacity and the experience to successfully manage eu funds, and now they could co—decide, manage and monitor at least part of the recovery funds. this is essential to guarantee their efficiency, but also to avoid problems with absorption capacity. there is another thing that has to be avoided: the temptation of some member states to use the next generation funds and the need to spend a lot of money in a short amount of time as an excuse to recentralise programmes and investments and bypass other governments with their own powers. therefore, i call on the commission and the council to ensure that regional governments are meaningfully involved in the governance of the recovery and resilience funds. this will be key to the success of the transformation that these funds rightfully intend to bring about.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament's resolution is clear. the submission and analysis of recovery plans cannot be a simplistic exercise, whereby we stick to a procedure. a careful analysis of how member state governments have thought about this process is needed. the european parliament, on the basis of european regulations and as the representative of european citizens, will study all plans in detail. the 750 billion euros must be used to rebuild europe if this joint loan is to work. how these resources are used will determine the future confidence of citizens in the european project. investment in education must therefore be central to the relaunch process. support for smes is also essential. we need european-level synergies between recovery plans. unfortunately, some governments have turned the plans into national policy agendas and avoided dialogue and consultation with social partners, civil society, local authorities or national parliaments. in romania, the right-wing government politicized the plan, proposing an austerity agenda with pension and wage freezes, possible tax increases, and anti-social and even anti-environmental reforms. they even said that the european union had forced it on them. we can't ignore such problems! we have two months to rectify all these mistakes. we need a coherent plan and today we reiterate the european parliament's desire to help all member states so that we have an effective european mechanism to help citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think that everyone here is aware that europe will be saved if italy is saved. the criteria for allocating next generation eu resources to the member states were clear: the commission has also proposed to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: but if we apply the same criteria within the member state, if we apply them within italy, we find that 70% should have been allocated to the south, because that is where poverty and unemployment are concentrated. the italian government has allocated less than 40% to the south and has set out criteria for the allocation of funds which will allow the south to absorb less than 20%. and then what has always happened in italian history is repeated: a rich north that sucks up resources and drains the resources of a poor south. it happened after the great wars, it happened after the crisis of 1929, it happened after the crises of 2008 and 2010, and it's still happening today. i say that europe will be saved if italy is saved, but it is true if the south is saved. italy will be saved if the south is saved. the south can only be saved if europe can defend it.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, madam minister, honourable members, today’s debate reaffirms the european parliament’s role and involvement in the implementation of the recovery and resilience facility. we very much welcome your scrutiny of the national plans and we will continue to provide the necessary input throughout the implementation of the facility. we will take into account your views, including those expressed in today’s resolution. the commission is determined to use the facility’s full potential to emerge stronger from the crisis and ensure a sustainable future for all people and member states of the european union. as you have rightly pointed out, success depends very much on strict adherence to the requirements of the regulation. the commission will be vigilant to make sure that this is the case, including for the points you mentioned in the resolution. we will not approve any plan that does not meet the 37% climate and 20% digital spending requirements. we will not approve any plan where the measures do not respect the ‘do no significant harm’ principle. and we will not approve any plan that does not cover at least a significant subset of the country—specific recommendations. we will make sure that the plans go a long way towards strengthening growth potential, job creation, as well as economic, social and institutional resilience. they must also contribute to putting the european pillar of social rights into effect, fully respecting social dialogue, and discussions with civil society as well as with regional and local authorities. so it is essential for each plan to contain appropriate policies for europe’s next generation. education and skills, labour market reforms and adequate and sustainable social protection systems are only a few examples. we are still discussing a number of issues with member states. there are still things to fix, and this is where the parliament’s scrutiny is welcome and helpful. however, overall the picture looks promising. next week the commission will start approving the first national plans for council adaptation. if all goes well, the first funds will be flowing to member states already in july. the commission is also committed to the swift adoption of the delegated acts, most likely in the autumn, and we are ready to continue discussions as part of the expert group. honourable members, the commission is fully committed to continuing its close cooperation with the european parliament. we will continue to meet regularly as part of the rrf dialogues throughout the lifetime of the facility, and actually i look forward to our next dialogue in this context in mid-july.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the gradual opening up of our economies and the pace of vaccination are allowing us to see the light at the end of the tunnel, but we are not there yet. to finally turn the page on economic and social recovery, we need to effectively implement the recovery and resilience mechanism together with other common instruments such as investeeu or the structural funds. this will help us recover from the crisis, to rebuild our economies and societies in a way that is greener, digital, resilient, but also more inclusive, more convergent, with greater social and territorial cohesion. we are all committed to leading the european union through a swift and efficient implementation of the recovery and resilience mechanism and national plans from now to 2026, ensuring investments and reforms that put people at the centre of policies with a vision for the future, ensuring a high degree of inter-institutional cooperation, flexibility and determination. to do that, we need the european parliament to exercise its full powers of control in accordance with the regulation. we need transparency, we need a joint effort by everyone, by all the institutions and by all the member states. that is what our citizens are asking us for: results. it is time to deliver.
thank you to minister zacharias for his reply. thank you to all the colleagues who have spoken. the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place tomorrow and the final vote will be on thursday. the discussions will resume, ladies and gentlemen, at 3 p.m. with the council and commission statements on the systematic repression in belarus and its consequences for european security following the seizure of a european union civil aircraft by the belarusian authorities. the vote will continue. good work and good afternoon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
national recovery and resilience plans are a solidarity response by the european union to the impacts of the pandemic crisis. its funding model represents a step forward in the deepening of the european partnership and opens up the possibility of effective cooperation in the simultaneous realisation of the priorities of the member states and the strategic options of the union. diversity is an asset of the european union. the impact of the pandemic has not been felt in the same way in the different member states. response plans shall reflect the responses considered necessary in each specific context. in this context, and without prejudice to the absolute urgency in implementing the plans, the scrutiny of the european parliament, as an institution legitimised by the direct vote of citizens, in particular the scrutiny of the continuous evaluation by the european commission and the council, is an asset to ensure coherence and promote synergies that reinforce europe's commitments to the green deal, the green, democratic and inclusive digital transition, sustainable growth, territorial cohesion, convergence and the realisation of the pillar of social rights. consistency in the priorities and the necessary responses, without conditionality beyond those which shape the values and principles governing the union.
the following are the statements by the council and the commission on the systematic repression by belarus and its consequences for european security following the seizure of an eu civil aircraft by the belarusian authorities [2021/2741 ((rsp) ]. i am informed that the high representative and vice-president of the commission, mr borrell, is speaking for both the commission and the council.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, it is certainly the right moment to talk about belarus. belarus is again at the very top of the international agenda for the events that everybody knows and the continued repression by lukashenko’s regime. this repression has been strongly condemned, as much as the massive human rights violations which continue unabated since the past elections in august 2020, almost one year ago. the recent events are related to the hijacking of a european union airplane flying between two european union capitals and forcing it to land in minsk with intervention by a fighter, which is an act that oversteps many red lines. not only has it jeopardised the security of over 100 passengers, it has also challenged international rules relating to air transportation. the subsequent arrest of a young belarusian journalist as well as his partner is an abhorrent act. their forced confession on state television is another example of the flagrant violations of basic human rights that lukashenko’s regime commits. it was certainly awful to watch this image of these people detained, crying and recognising in front of state television like he has been committing i don’t know how many crimes against belarus. believe me, it was a shameful image, and we have to respond decisively against this image, against these facts. already the day after, after the hijacking of the ryanair flight, the european council met, put this issue on the agenda and took decisions. the european council called for additional sanctions, and for the first time they decided to include targeted economic sanctions. until now our sanctions are usually taken on a personal basis, affecting individuals and entities but not the whole economy of a country. this time, the council requested to take targeted economic sanctions. the council also requested that all european union-based air carriers avoid overflights of belarus. they called also for adopting the necessary measures to ban overflights of european union airspace by belarusian airlines and prevent access to european union airports of flights operated by such airlines. and i can tell you that these measures have already been adopted last week, and i will give you some details about it. listing of individuals and companies, including those involved in the ryanair incident, are well on track for adoption, and it will be adopted by written procedure in the following days. as mandated by the european council and together with the commission, we have started targeted economic sanctions, as the council requested. they will be adopted at the next foreign affairs council. i hope that the technical work will be finished and it will be affecting critical sectors of the belarusian economy – but the final decision belongs to the member states. i hope they will be united on that. meantime, we will continue to address the human rights violations in international fora. let’s not forget that we now calculate almost 450 political prisoners in belarus. these groups include journalists arrested for simply doing their jobs – informing, students and representatives of civil society and ordinary citizens who protested against their freedom and rights being taken away by the regime. we have been contributing to the establishment of a mechanism to hold the perpetrators of human rights violations responsible, and we will continue to support the victims and look for the accountability of perpetrators. we have published a plan for an eur 3 billion economic investment package in support of democratic belarus, sending a message of hope and support to the people of belarus, showing the prospects for a more prosperous country once they come back to a democratic system. belarus, should the country change, will have a strong incentive for economic development, and this eur three billion economic plan will support it. this is a way of proving that we stand with the belarusian people and will continue doing so in the future. i am very much looking forward to listening to your remarks on this situation.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. on behalf of the european people's party, i would like to make a very strong appeal. there is no time for discussion, but action, and it must be very decisive, very rapid and very concrete. at the polish-belarusian border today, people are protesting because they can't get in touch with their families. there's practically no traffic. lukashenko has closed the border. it means that belarus has become one big prison. it was time for a high-level mission, as the epp proposed and as the european parliament proposed in its resolution. today we can only appeal for a high-level political conference. but the policy of sanctions, personal sanctions, economic sanctions, banning the import of goods such as petroleum products, fertilisers or wood must be decisive and more decisive. yes, the sky must be closed to belarusian planes. we need to mobilize our diplomats to participate in the trials of political prisoners. among the 460 people, more than 30 journalists are tortured and persecuted. we need to help the belarusian media, the independent media, because the belarusian society is cut off from information. we have nexta, tut.by, they need our support. and there's one for lukashenko - i'm thinking of the hague tribunal. i hope that dictator ends up there, because justice must prevail. freedom will surely prevail.
on behalf of the s&d group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. over the past 10 months, lukashenko has crossed boundaries. the international community, including unfortunately the european union, has been watching the tragedy of millions of belarusian men and women. during this time, lukashenko, raising his hand against his fellow citizens, tortured them, raped women, imprisoned children and youths. today we are adopting a very special resolution, another resolution, which is intended to draw attention to the fact that we are not dealing with a politician who has confused democracy with authoritarianism. we are dealing with the last dictator of europe. with a man who raised his hand against his community. with a man who here in europe, on the continent where democracy and human rights were born, is making north korea. the european union cannot stand by and watch this happen, commissioner. the european union must finally take decisive action and this resolution contains that action. we also need to send a clear signal to civil society in belarus that in addition to sanctions today, now and in the coming months we will also have a plan to support the belarusian opposition so that it is not left alone, so that the hope that they still carry in their hearts today will never die.
madam president! i speak polish so i can be heard better across the eastern border. well, lukashenko has been in power for 27 years, so for 27 years, the world and the union have been helpless. don't we have the means to punish? no, i'm not going. we have the means, we just don't have the will. we just make excuses: because lukashenko is too small a player, because it's too small an economy, because putin is behind him. so we need to present our plans for action against lukashenko. first, a plan to support the opposition. he needs to meet with the information campaign in our media and reach out to the belarusians. one photo of pratasiewicz at the airport isn't enough. we need grants for the opposition, we need grants for the unions, we need support for the victims, we need mass treatment programs, we need funding for the outcasts, we need to isolate lukashenko. let's start with the trials against lukashenko in their own countries to bring them to the court of justice. and finally, we need a united front and leadership. let's use president biden's visit to europe to create a common front.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. of course again, ladies and gentlemen, in this chamber we heard what we usually hear, which is that belarus is very important to us, democracy is important to us. there's a whole new drama going on, and you're pretending that you don't know what this case is really about. well, it's not about lukashenko himself. what gives him power is his protector, that's putin. and so it is, ladies and gentlemen, that instead of weakening putin, you are strengthening him. this room is full of people who are responsible for building tools of political blackmail against putin like nord stream 2 or responsible for being involved in this project or responsible for not doing anything about it. and every time you help putin, he gets a signal, he gives a signal to lukashenko that he can continue to do this, he can continue to violate human rights. and if you want to finally help, really help belarus, then stop appealing to everyone, i don't know who, but appeal to yourself and start acting on this issue, because it's high time to put things in order with mr. lukashenko and to stop helping putin.
the worrisome developments in belarus continue to give rise to our growing concern. the hijacking of the plane a few weeks ago has stunned us. and yet, not again. it was a wake-up call. it has shown us what an authoritarian regime is capable of, a regime that can maintain itself despite systemic aberrations because of an alliance with and strategic support from russia. we are in agreement that we must take far-reaching measures against minsk, as i hear it here, and call for an international conference on the future, and for an international investigation and trial of lukashenko, and also support the democratic forces and the opposition in his country. we must do this to ensure that the union's critical attention to developments in belarus is maintained. the resolution to be voted on this week is therefore a welcome signal in this respect. in a few weeks' time, ladies and gentlemen, russia will be back on the agenda of the european council, but also at the nato and eu-us summits. as far as i am concerned, cohesion and cooperation with partners who share our values and interests are at the heart of our strategy against russia and, in this case, also against belarus.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i have to agree with all of you. there is no doubt that the repression in belarus has intensified and that it has reached the point when any expression of dissent is immediately brutally repressed. there are no more mass protests in the streets. no, they don’t take place anymore. this is not a return to normality, but it is the result of systematic and brutal repression. legislation has also been gradually amended to shrink even more the limited space for any legal democratic activities of the society and to legally justify the abuses and violations of human rights. this includes a decree recently signed by lukashenko allowing the law enforcement to use weapons against peaceful protesters. i agree with all of you that we are facing a dictator. i agree with all of you that he has the support of russia. i agree with all of you that we have to continue putting pressure and using all our capacities and tools in order to support civil society in belarus. we have to consider this idea of holding an international conference on belarus. we have to continue offering support and the prospect of financial support for a belarusian democratic country. we have to target our sanctions in order to focus on lukashenko and his cronies and to try to avoid ordinary citizens, but you know that you can’t make an omelette without breaking eggs. you have to take measures that will certainly affect the belarusian economy but at the same time support civil society, independent media, and the rule of law in order to push for free and fair elections. we know that we are very far away from that. we know that russian support – they have recently renewed a grant of usd 500 million – is very important for lukashenko. this will certainly be taken into consideration by the european council in the next meeting when they discuss our relationship with russia. i can assure you that we are doing everything we can, from the beginning, in order to fight this dictatorship and to support the people who are suffering from it. i also thank you for your commitment to this purpose.
in writing. – the current situation in belarus represents a fundamental test of the credibility of the european union. at our very borders, more than 35 000 people have been jailed, more than 4 600 tortured, and there are over 470 political prisoners. as a further reminder, the recent hijacking of an eu plane was a state—orchestrated act of terror. we must act now to stop lukashenko. i call for the establishment of an international tribunal to prosecute lukashenko and his collaborators, as well for the suspension of belarusian national teams from european and world championships and the olympics. eu sanctions should be extended to all those linked to state repression, including its economic and financial enablers and supporters. raman pratasevich, sofia sapiega and all political prisoners must be released immediately and unconditionally, and eu sanctions, including the ban on belarusian carriers, should remain in place until this happens. our governments must show ample and requisite determination and responsibility in providing tangible and long—term support to the legitimate democratic opposition in belarus. i also fully support the organisation of a high—level political conference on the resolution of the crisis in belarus, which must take place without any delay, under eu leadership.
in writing. the lawlessness that the lukashenka regime is introducing in belarus, destabilising the security of not only belarusians but also the citizens of europe, must be met with our decisive reaction and action. in response to the violation of fundamental human rights, the violation of media freedom and the violation of freedom of action of journalists, the international community must respond clearly and decisively. the only effective way is to impose severe sanctions, especially economic ones, that will hit the regime and help restore hope for a better tomorrow for the entire belarusian society. at the same time, we must not forget to help our belarusian friends, who, having experienced the recent events, need it more than ever. polish prime minister mateusz morawiecki has presented an economic plan for a democratic belarus that offers a better alternative to the economic stagnation caused by lukashenka's bad governance. this comprehensive package will not only provide financial support, but will also provide the belarusian society with the long-term assistance it so badly needs. i would like to remind you that belarus is still in europe. for the sake of her people and for the sake of the safety of all of us, we must do everything we can to help her.
in writing. – i cannot stress enough the urgency and the seriousness surrounding the situation in belarus and the actions taken by the lukashenka regime. what happened is beyond the acceptable and i do not know where to start from in my indictment, as so many criminal and illegal acts have been perpetrated by the government in minsk. today we are discussing the high-jacking of the athens to vilnius flight, but this is one grave action that is part of a long pattern of aggression and brutality that has characterised the illegitimate power structure patronised by lukashenka. i salute this resolution and all other actions taken by this house in relation to belarus. at the same time, we must toughen not only our rhetoric, but also the sanctions imposed on the regime. i make a strong appeal for more resolute action from the eu institutions and member states in relation to this issue. we must step up the pressure and use all instruments at our disposal to make lukashenka and his clique accountable for their blatantly illegal activities. we cannot allow rogue states to use terrorist methods against anyone, be them eu or belarus citizens.
in writing. the detention of a passenger plane and the capture of raman pratasiewicz and sofya sapiega is not only a violation of international aviation law, but above all a violation of fundamental human rights. in belarus, mass persecution of oppositionists and independent journalists, thanks to which we have had access to real information about what is happening in the country, continues unabated. in addition, belarusians are increasingly having trouble leaving their country, and belarus' borders with the eu are becoming increasingly sealed and preventing them from leaving. those who have managed to leave and remain in the eu due to their opposition activities often live in constant fear and danger, fearing being abducted and taken to belarus, where they face imprisonment, interrogation and torture. i therefore call for targeted economic sanctions to be imposed on all those who support the lukashenka regime. we must develop as soon as possible a support plan for the opposition and civil society, including psychological support and treatment programs for the hundreds of prisoners and tortured. moreover, we must remember to hold the perpetrators accountable, to prosecute and fight against the impunity of all those who have contributed to the support of terror. the belarusian society must not only know that it has the support of the international community, but above all feel the effect of this support in specific cases.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, 75 years since the un’s foundation, we praise effective multilateralism, acknowledging in particular the un role in building the international human rights system and humanitarian law, and also in the stabilisation of many places of conflict around the world. yet we are concerned about the increasingly difficult role of countries like russia and china in this multilateral system. we need the eu’s contribution, but i think that the old concept of reforming should be adopted with caution. in particular, i think that our way of taking unanimous decisions on foreign affairs is of value in our community.
madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs rodriguez, for her full report. we live in a global and multipolar world and the first framework for the adoption of global responses is the united nations. i think of global challenges such as terrorism, climate change, pandemics, disarmament or the management of migration flows. the united nations also has a very important role to play in the protection of human rights. however, i regret, as the report itself does, the place occupied by a regime such as the venezuelan regime in the human rights council. i am also pleased that the report includes the objective of the european union being able to have a permanent seat on a reformed and enlarged security council by consensus. in new york we also need to strengthen our cooperation with our partners and allies. i am thinking of the united states, which now has a new administration, which supports the united nations and the multilateral order. i am also thinking of the united kingdom, a permanent member of the security council, with whom we share values and interests despite brexit. and we must also cooperate with the countries of latin america, which are for so many reasons so close to the european union.
i have to say, madam president, the world will be different after covid-19. a world where the rich and the poor are still far more alienated. under these conditions, do we still have the strength to make the necessary leap forward? the united nations has always been a place of cooperation. let's make her strong! let us help the united nations to be reformed and now fit for the tasks that lie ahead. as a first step, we need a global vaccination strategy so that everyone can overcome the virus and get back on their feet. mr borrell, the european union must play a key role in this! it must become a pioneer of community action. we're waiting for that. the whole world community needs this. it's in all of our interests.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, global challenges require a strong commitment to tackling economic, political and social problems at the international level. and we see that in the current pandemic, after all, but also in a whole host of security issues that we can only solve if we work together. in a debate in the foreign affairs committee last november, i stressed that the european union should continue to support the united nations as an independent forum for multilateral solutions to global challenges in times of uncertainty, welcoming positive reform developments. reforms must address key un issues such as representation, funding, efficiency and decision-making. the european union and its member states should also reach a consensus on reform of the un security council. it is necessary to consider introducing the possibility of the european union as a permanent member of the security council in addition to the existing membership of individual member states. i support the debate on limiting the veto, especially in cases of war crimes and crimes against humanity. it is in this context that i would like to remind you that today the unique sentence of life imprisonment for war crimes and genocide was confirmed for the criminal ratko mladic.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the people responsible for this important report by the european parliament on the united nations for the work they have done: the rapporteur and the rapporteurs. it is an important report because it speaks of the united nations and it speaks to us in particular of the forum on which the ultimate expression of multilateralism is built, a way of organizing international life to which the european union is firmly committed. dialogue, cooperation and rules against the logic of competition between great powers, to address the historical challenges of the united nations - basically building peace and preventing conflict - but also new challenges: to combat climate change, to protect global public health or, now, to coordinate effectively in the fiscal field. the report sends some important messages: the need for reform, to adapt to be more operational, and the powerful message of having a stronger and more cohesive voice of the union in the united nations. strategic autonomy and multilateralism should be two sides of the same coin for the european union in the international arena. and where it is best and most applied: in the united nations.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i am pleased that the debate today, and your resolution, reflect the common agenda of this parliament, the council, the high representative / vice-president and the commission. it reaffirms our defence of a values- and rules-based multilateral order and offers a strong, influential and united eu voice in multilateral bodies as presented in our joint communication of february this year. it also underlines our unity on what matters the most: the need for an international order where every person and every person’s dignity and fundamental rights are protected, where we make a sustainable use of our planet, preserving its ecosystems and resources for future generations, where peace and prosperity for all are ensured. i share this parliament’s concern about the global pandemic and the access to covid-19 vaccines in many parts of the world and the need for a sustainable and inclusive recovery that leaves no one behind. the eu and the member states made a substantial contribution to the world’s vaccine production and to the covax facility, and will continue to do so. the commission has also made ambitious proposals for building back better, by putting the sdgs and agenda 2030 back on track, both domestically and in the eu’s external policies and assistance. in order to enhance our strategic partnership and dialogue with the un, we have proposed the establishment of an annual eu-un summit. the eu will also engage actively in the reflection process in the follow-up to un75 to support efforts to revise and, where necessary, modernise the multilateral system to make it fit for the challenges of the 21st century. one issue that is very close to my heart is to build a more inclusive multilateralism. i want to stimulate an engagement and debate with our civil society, private sector, as well as other stakeholders, including youth. colleagues, we look forward to continuing engaging with you on this very important topic.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, and the final vote will take place on wednesday, 9 june 2021. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the european parliament's textual contribution to the 75th and 76th sessions of the united nations general assembly again does not address the essential issues of taking account of the work of the un to date or of addressing current and future global challenges. instead, the text was saturated with lessons and political appeals, repeated as a mantra by the left-liberal side of the parliament. one of these absurdities is that the text criticizes the sovereign choice of our country and poland to join a declaration of conservative values, just because it dares to go against the mainstream ideology of the eu. the recommendation contains passages imbued with political ideology, such as the call for a move to qualified majority voting in the council in the area of the union's common foreign policy. in addition to having nothing to do with the un general assembly, proposals to abolish unanimity are contrary to the eu's basic treaties and would deprive smaller member states of the opportunity to effectively promote their interests in shaping the union's common foreign policy. the text makes numerous references to the global compact on migration, which neither hungary nor several european member states supported, since its provisions can be interpreted as an invitation to illegal migrants. it is unacceptable that the left-liberal side has diverted another parliamentary report from its original purpose and filled it with its own political ambitions, calling into question the seriousness of the whole european parliament.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on development, on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument – global europe, amending and repealing decision no 466/2014/eu of the european parliament and of the council and repealing regulation (eu) 2017/1601 of the european parliament and of the council and council regulation (ec, euratom) no 480/2009 (06879/1/2021 – c9—0191/2021 – 2018/0243(cod)) (rapporteurs: michael gahler, charles goerens, maria arena, rasa juknevičienė) (a9—0198/2021).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm not going to let you get away with this. we are adopting today the eu regulation on the global europe programme. this regulation lays down the objectives, procedures and financial means of european foreign policy and our development cooperation. with the sum of all the important contents and rules and the resources of almost 80 billion euros, we are laying the foundations for the external action of the european union for the next seven years. certain rules also apply to cooperation with the candidate countries. the instrument therefore affects the use of almost eur 100 billion from the multiannual financial framework. we would like to see the european parliament's influence in this context strengthened to the point of genuine participation in the decision-making process on the national programmes. but unfortunately the council and the commission were not prepared to do so. the main task of the european commission therefore remains to make the selection decisions and to decide on the content of the country programmes. the commission is bound by the regulation to the political provisions of our international agreements, but also and especially to the political decisions and formal decisions of the council and parliament. in this way we are responding to the will of the european citizens who are calling for a strong and united foreign policy of the european union. as a parliament we will in future review more frequently and more closely the country programmes and concrete projects implementing the priorities of our foreign policy. i therefore welcome the newly established geopolitical dialogue with vice-president borrell and the commissioners responsible for foreign affairs and the close cooperation agreed with the senior officials of the european commission and the foreign service. i am particularly concerned about the neighbourhood policy with our eastern and southern neighbours in the years ahead. in the eastern neighbourhood in particular, we have particularly close partners with our associated partners in ukraine, georgia and moldova, who want to join our european way of life. the people of these countries know that we are not coming with threats and tanks, but with offers of cooperation and of strengthening the rule of law and democracy. as a parliament we are working closely and in a spirit of trust with the commission and the foreign office on the day-to-day operational aspects of this matter. in all these countries, we are thus strengthening democratically legitimised officials and authorities operating under the rule of law. i therefore expect that in this region, but of course also in other parts of the world, a balanced approach will be taken between the promotion of democracy and human rights policy. we therefore also want to strengthen cooperation with civil society organisations in the valuable and stabilising tasks of democracy education and election observation. in the southern neighbourhood, as a permanent rapporteur, i am particularly fond of tunisia, where the arab spring began and which has been able to preserve and develop its democracy in the face of all the economic and social difficulties. the visit of president saied last week should be an opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to this country, and we as the ep will do so with a special commitment. our foreign policy is not limited to the classical fields of diplomacy, human rights, politics and the promotion of the rule of law. we also provide the commission and the foreign service with the tools to support other union policies. leading our neighbours and other international partners to european policies in the field of research, climate change or energy supply, for the design of the digital economy, is to strengthen our networking and cooperation. we want to help our partners develop themselves and to link up more closely with them, setting european standards wherever possible. by sharing this part of the european way of life, we are rendering a valuable service to the improvement of living conditions in many countries. we help create security and prosperity. we are strengthening the bonds between our peoples and states. this will help our partners to resist the pressure exerted on them by russia or china, for example. europe is extending the zone of stability and freedom on and around our continent. with the global europe programme, we are making additional commitments and strengthening our commitment to climate, nature and the environment. we are doing more than we have done in the past to promote stability and traditional security as a prerequisite for development cooperation. and we are strengthening our investment resources to mobilise private and entrepreneurial initiative for sustainable economic development. the foreign service and the commission have already held extensive consultations with our partners in the world in preparation for the implementation of the global europe programme. the european union, with its new programme, which gives the commission greater flexibility, should be able to learn and react quickly when new developments require an adjustment of our assistance and cooperation. in the neighbourhood policy we have the special opportunity to reward good performance with a higher budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to conclude by thanking my colleagues in this parliament who were already rapporteurs in the previous parliamentary term, in particular my group colleagues cristian preda and frank engel, the finnish, croatian, german and portuguese presidencies of the council, the european commission and the foreign service, the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, and the many staff in the european parliament from the administration, the political groups and my own office who have given us and me excellent support in this important work over several years. and now to work on foreign policy, development cooperation, neighbourhood!
the rapporteur. madam president, madam commissioner, by signing the global europe document, we are bringing to an end three years of detailed analysis of a project to give europe more weight in the world. in keeping with its values, the union does not take the easy way out. by standing up for women, who are still too often oppressed, the european union is advocating the right to equality. by making the fight against poverty one of its highest priorities, the european union is siding with the weak. by devoting most of its resources to combating climate change, it is standing up for the right of future generations to live in decent conditions. by applying the principle of partnership in its relations with developing countries, the union deals with its partners on an equal footing. respecting the views of its partners, the union does not want to impose anything on them, either brutally or subtly. by signing a document that commits some €90 billion to its foreign policy for the next seven years, it gives predictability to its partners. by recommending that its member states participate in the union's efforts in the framework of so-called joint programming, it makes its external action more coherent and more effective. by merging ten instruments into one, the european union improves its responsiveness, reduces decision-making time and simplifies cooperation with its partners. by including the missions of the european development fund in the new instrument, the european union is putting an end to a contradiction. the contradiction was that democratic principles were being preached all over the world, while the european parliament was being denied the right to exercise its budgetary prerogatives in a vital area of foreign policy. the european parliament has been negotiating with the council for months and years. in addition to the more fundamental issues relating to development, cooperation with third countries, international law and security, the european parliament is keen to become more involved in the governance of the new instrument. he was helped by the great professionalism and example of the officials of the development and foreign affairs committees and the assistants of the correspondents. i would like to pay special tribute to them for having succeeded in clearing a path full of obstacles. their efforts, along with those of the colporteurs, were not in vain. parliament has now taken a step forward in the programming of an instrument by means of a delegated act negotiated at the last minute, without, however, replacing the commission, which remains the first responsible body for the policy choices to be made in the context of this instrument. today, and especially during the current pandemic, the time has come for the strategic state in our countries. the european union, with an instrument of approximately 90 billion, has the task of federating and sharing the resources it has with those of the member states, for the good of humanity. at a time when the savagery of external relations threatens to become the rule, the european union is trying to impose civilised relations between nations that respect each other. just because the bet is hard to win doesn't mean you shouldn't do it. humanity deserves better than blackmail, the status quo, exclusion, intimidation, threats of war, denial of human rights and the suppression of freedom of expression. dignity is not measured in millions of dollars. a day, a month, a year of peace remains difficult to evaluate financially. the conflict that could have been avoided is not visible. is this a handicap for the european union in its external relations? yeah, i guess i could. but what at first glance might be seen as a weakness in the face of global actors who ignore our values is in fact the nobility of our approach, better known from today on as 'global europe'.
member of the commission. – madam president, it is my pleasure to attend, also on behalf of my colleagues high representative and vice-president borrell fontelles and commissioner várhelyi, this plenary debate on the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument (ndici) – global europe. we have travelled on a long journey together in elaborating a new innovative and historical instrument for the eu’s international cooperation and its external action. i want to convey three messages today. first, together we have designed a groundbreaking instrument at the service of our geopolitical objectives. it will enable us, in a constantly changing world, to foster international partnerships and support our partner countries by fighting inequalities. with this instrument, we are sending a strong signal that the european union is a committed supporter of multilateralism. we will continue to lead the global response to covid—19 and contribute to achieving global priorities, particularly the agenda 2030 and the paris agreement. it will allow us to respond faster and more coherently to partners’ needs and to promote the union’s strategic priorities. these include education and health, democracy and good governance, peace, the fight against climate change, digitalisation and inclusive and sustainable growth. it will also preserve the aspects related to the implementation of the neighbourhood policy. second, ndici – global europe represents a major innovation and unique achievement in the programming of assistance measures. the instrument’s overall budget of eur 79.5 billion is a clear indication of this. the new instrument will particularly support countries most in need to allow them to overcome long-term development challenges. now, more than ever, we need to ease the development funding gap. ndici – global europe will be our most powerful tool to support a sustainable recovery, which puts youth and women in the driving seat. it is aligned with the eu’s strategic priorities. we aim to spend at least 20% on human development, and i will increase funding for education from 7% to 10% in partner countries under my responsibility. through the european fund for sustainable development plus (efsd+), we will scale up private investments towards achieving the sustainable development goals. the cushion is nearly eur 10 billion. this helps us to meet new and emerging challenges. as agreed in the trilogues, eur 1 billion from the cushion will reinforce the thematic programmes, human rights and democracy, civil society organisations and global challenges. finally, i want to thank the european parliament for its tireless commitment. this instrument has been strengthened in the negotiations. parliament will have an enhanced role in defining the main strategic choices, including through a delegated act and a regular geopolitical dialogue. after decades of debate, the european development fund has been brought within the budget, reinforcing parliamentary oversight and democracy. this represents around one third of eu external cooperation. also thanks to this house, we have introduced more ambitious targets for spending on official development assistance, gender, climate and biodiversity. and the new instrument shows our strong commitment to the principles of democracy, the rule of law and nuclear safety standards. so, colleagues, it has been a long, but meaningful, journey. it has been a privilege for me to lead the negotiations for the commission. we look forward to continuing our exchanges with parliament now on the implementation of this instrument, beginning with our first geopolitical dialogue next week.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent work. the commission put forward its proposal three years ago, promising more efficiency, more flexibility, more transparency. the stakes are high. this is about the credibility of the european union's development policy. to achieve political credibility, we need to engage more closely with european citizens. parliament can be a partner in this, but this requires more information and dialogue than ever before. it must be effective so that the inhabitants of the partner countries are not forced to leave their homes. we need to put the focus of development cooperation on local assistance and addressing the root causes of migration. any meaningful progress is a precondition for security. so in regions like northern ethiopia, the sahel, mozambique, that's the first thing we need to work on. education is also essential for progress, and i would like to thank the commissioner for mentioning the 10 per cent. the ndici should also give due weight to these objectives in the ndici programming process.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, we’re living in turbulent times, and the challenges that need to be tackled by external action have increased substantially in recent years. this obliges us to introduce a new modern instrument in the multiannual financial framework, which will be implemented in a rapidly-changing geopolitical context. we have an unprecedented crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic, and the new ndici represents a fundamental reform for the european union’s international cooperation development and neighbourhood policies and fully support it. promoting partnership across the world that invests in democracy and human rights but also in key sectors like digital and green transformation is needed. this will enable us to be a leading global player and a reliable partner in the international scene. this is what the world is expecting from europe, and we will deliver by showing our ability to act globally.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, thank you for giving me the floor. i think that the instrument is going to define the action of the eu at global level for the coming years. it’s a huge package of eur 80 billion, and the first thing that we can be reasonably satisfied with on the side of parliament is that parliamentary scrutiny and control is going to be strengthened, not only at the level of the cushion, which was one of our concerns, but in general through the delegated acts, and also through the geopolitical dialogues that will be established. as greens we are also satisfied with the targets established in the regulation – the 93% oda, 85% for actions having gender as a principle or significant objective, 30% climate – and also to have a specific biodiversity target. we believe those are very positive elements. also, when it comes to military capacity spending, there is a cap and we have managed to include several safeguards that for us were important. finally, i have to say that the intention of the council to condition everything in the package on migration agreements with third countries was a big mistake. i think that parliament did a great job in limiting that migration conditionality only to the 10% of the funds that are specifically dedicated to migration in the package. i think also here parliament has played a very constructive and important role, and i would like to thank the co—rapporteurs for their efforts and for the huge work and cooperation with all the relevant shadows.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the 'global dimension of europe' is undoubtedly a very modern instrument. i congratulate all those who contributed to its development. first of all, we will ensure through this document, as the largest donor, the implementation of a coherent development policy to an even greater extent than before. it's a really big success because it closed all the issues that were important to many of the parties that were building this document. but what is particularly important from our point of view is a compromise agreement on migration. the 10% target for this purpose is, in my view, the optimal solution, given the differences of opinion between parliament and the council on this issue. because all development aid is of tremendous and fundamental importance to curb illegal migration, because people who live in their geographical breadth, where they were born, where they grew up, will be able to have help, will be able to pursue their dreams, will be able to develop. this is very important. i want to congratulate you very, very warmly.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. fellow workers! of course, reaching a compromise is a long and winding road. we all know that. the text of the agreement on the european fund plus contains elements from our point of view - i speak on behalf of the ecr group - both negative and positive. the second, positive, is much more, hence the decision to support the ecr's negotiated agreement. i would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, mr david casy, who has shown an exceptional talent for negotiation. congratulations on this art of team building. it was really after long negotiations that a reasonable, moderate solution was reached. what are the advantages from our point of view? so we have a stable legal framework for co-financing national social policies, because these social policies are implemented by the member states in the next financial perspective. the impact of the pandemic on employment is visible and very serious, and that's why the €100 billion in current prices is needed immediately. the fs also combines - this is the second advantage - several funds, namely: the existing european social fund and the youth employment initiative, the fund for aid to the most deprived, the employment and social innovation programme and the eu health programme. the merger of these funds should streamline and simplify the existing rules applicable to these different funds. because we also know the range... i'm sorry about that. the negative elements are article 7, article 6 and article 7a. i'm sorry, i was convinced i had 30 seconds left.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the treaty of lisbon has changed the procedure for determining the provisions governing the exercise of investigative powers. article 226 of the treaty provides that the detailed rules for the exercise of the investigatory powers are to be laid down by the european parliament, acting by means of regulations on its own initiative in accordance with a special legislative procedure after obtaining the consent of the council and the commission. it is worth recalling that the council and the commission have pointed out that the essence of the parliament's powers of inquiry is that they are exercised by means of political rather than judicial accountability, and that the european parliament's supervisory function must be exercised within the generally accepted framework and functions conferred on it by the treaties. the right of the european parliament to exercise political control in the european union and to exercise its powers of inquiry in accordance with article 226 of the treaty should therefore be respected, but with due regard for the interinstitutional balance and the competences of the member states and the other institutions of the european union. the clue to the whole matter is contained in that last sentence, 'with due regard for the competence of the member states', the national states. the phenomenon of the european union, the phenomenon of the european parliament, as a member of the european parliament, as a european, as a pole, as a citizen, i am proud to sit in this house, but i cannot think of taking over the powers that the left of the chamber sometimes tries to impose on us. you talk a lot about democracy, about respecting the will of the voters. let me give you an example. the former prime minister of the polish government, today mep, mrs beata szydlo, received over half a million votes. what have you done? you rejected those half a million votes by not electing her, by not accepting her as the chair of one of the many committees in the european parliament. mr krasnodębski, a distinguished sociologist and a representative of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, was not elected vice-president of the european parliament by your votes.
madam president, european citizens elect their meps. european citizens give us the task of representing them and require us to exercise our mandate in good faith and in their interests. european citizens place their trust in the european parliament and therefore have the right to have us look after the smooth running of the union and the proper spending of the money from the european union budget. the right of inquiry of the legislature against the executive is natural in absolutely any member state, is part of the principles of the rule of law and contributes to the fair separation of powers. the role of the european parliament's right of inquiry at eu level is the same, but the way it was established in 1995 no longer corresponds to european realities. it's inadequate and inefficient. in 2014, both the parliament and the council and the commission expressed their institutional and political will to have a new legal text in this regard. in 2019, after five years, this procedure was resumed. it's 2021. we're in the middle of a pandemic, and for the next few years, we have the largest cumulative budget ever put on the table by the european union. however, we are facing a deadlock as regards the european parliament's right of inquiry. we are talking about making european funds conditional on respect for the rule of law in the countries of the union. but what is happening in the european institutions? the council, the commission and the parliament must be examples of transparency, fully committed to european principles and values. therefore, an appropriate legal framework is needed for the full exercise of parliament's right of inquiry. it is the cornerstone of democracy and is based on the legitimacy given to parliamentarians by the vote of european citizens. on their behalf and in the letter and spirit of the union treaties, i call on the commission and the council to accept parliament's request for an effective inquiry mechanism as a matter of urgency. every piece of european legislation must be protected, and the right of inquiry ensures that we do that.
madam president, this is not just a theoretical debate. the lack of a clear legal framework for our right of inquiry has very concrete consequences. as chair of the parliament’s committee of inquiry on the protection of animals during transport, i have first-hand experience of this. the committee i chair does not want to blame other institutions; we want to help uncover current issues, to contribute to finding better solutions. but for us to be able to fulfil this mission, we rely on the full cooperation of all institutions. if an inquiry committee invites member states for an exchange of views, they should respond to the invitation. if an inquiry committee sends requests for information, we currently expect other institutions to cooperate, but can do little when they start disputing the parliament’s competences and hiding behind their legal service’s interpretation. instead of a battle between legal services, we need clear rules and procedures for the implementation of the right of inquiry. this is a crucial element of a parliamentary democracy.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. you want more power again. perhaps this idea would even be correct, if it were not for the fact that we know very well how you use these powers that you have extended so far. you're not using them to improve the lives of citizens, to strengthen democracy, to seek the truth, but as a political stick. what do you think this rule of law is that you're talking about again today? by violating the treaties and hiding your legal opinions that say so. by undermining democratic elections. because democracy didn't choose the way you would have wanted it to. poland and hungary didn't choose the way you wanted them to, so we'll teach them. we're the ones who'll teach them how to think. that's the colonial way of thinking. it's a betrayal of one country by another. it's the right to kill unborn children, which you still brazenly call a human right. it's the imposition on others that human sex is not a matter of biology, but a matter of free choice. it is finally censorship, repression for all those who appeal to the christian values of europe, that is to say, to all that has built europe from the beginning. this is europe, after all, where the germans can do whatever they want to do when it comes to choosing judges, and the others can't do anything. it's obvious that you'll also use this tool in your crusade. take a good, honest look at this monster you've created. at this moment, if the founding fathers of europe were to appear here, they would not be able to perform any function here. especially on those committees you're forming right now. because they don't see things the way you do. and don't expect that someone will come today and help you create another power, another tool to show you again this colonial thinking that you, of course, condemn in words. and then you show that if there's a conservative government, if someone thinks differently, we'll take their money, we'll extend our treaties to show them what we think it really is, what censorship should look like, what repression should look like. and for us, ladies and gentlemen, that is freedom. and freedom is also respecting those who have different views than you.
madam president, paradoxically, this is the third time that i have spoken on the subject of the european parliament's right of inquiry, in 2017, in 2019 and now. why do i say that? these repeated debates are evidence that the european parliament has put forward a certain possibility of reforming the european parliament's right of inquiry. and unfortunately, our partners, the council, are not responding to this. and that's what i see as the biggest problem. the absence of dialogue between the european institutions and the council's unwillingness to debate at all whether or not it is appropriate and possible to reform the european parliament's right of inquiry. we can have different opinions, different views on this issue, but we should debate. and i would like to call on the council once again to break the ice and start a debate with the european parliament on whether and how to reform the european parliament's right of inquiry. debate is the foundation of democracy, and unfortunately the council does not follow that.
madam president! today's debate is of fundamental importance because the european parliament not only makes the law, but also exercises a supervisory function, as reflected in its investigative powers. i think that the council's approach, which has effectively refused to engage in legislative dialogue for several years now, despite parliament's calls for it to participate in the negotiations, should be viewed in a very negative light. this is all the more surprising since the treaty not only gives parliament the possibility, but also requires it to lay down in a regulation the detailed rules for the exercise of its powers of inquiry. in this context, the council's blocking of negotiations on a legislative act which parliament must adopt is unjustified, obstructive and merely arrogant. the council of the union should bear in mind that, although it is not politically accountable to parliament, it is bound by the treaty principle of sincere cooperation and should therefore immediately cease to ignore the legitimate expectations of the european parliament. i hope that the key points that were raised in today's debate will be put into practice immediately and that they will not only spark new words but also action.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to focus on three issues which i believe are fundamental and which were discussed at the last european council. the first issue is, of course, covid. we're all glad to see things are stabilizing. we are glad to be here in strasbourg. this is a clear signal to the europeans that we are winning the fight against the pandemic. what's important is that people have a sense of hope, above all, that life is getting back to normal. the key, of course, is vaccines and getting people to want to get vaccinated. vaccination is well under way in various european countries. the vaccine supply is going up and down, but it looks like it's stabilizing. but we can't ignore the possibility of a fourth wave of covid. and here, as i said earlier, the key is, of course, vaccines, and we should do everything we can to make sure that there are as many vaccines as possible, that they are widely available, but also that people want to be vaccinated. i would like to point out that we should also make sure that this campaign to promote vaccination reaches those who still have doubts or perhaps are afraid of vaccination, so that we can convince them. the second thing is the climate. and here i want to say one thing, it's good that there are such ambitious goals. all the european countries have joined this programme and this project, but we have to note that there are european countries that simply need more time because of the specific situation of their economies, which is not their fault. and of course, this is the case in central european countries like poland, where our coal-fired power generation needs more time to adapt. and the last point, very briefly, because i have run out of time, but i want to say something about the issues of our policy with russia and with belarus. poland in particular has repeatedly warned that we should have a clear and unambiguous policy towards these regimes. we cannot make declarations, support the democratic opposition and at the same time allow the nord stream 2 project to be implemented. we need to be clear.
in writing. the coordination of eu covid-19 action must be characterised by multi-front action based on solidarity, diplomacy and effective solutions. i support taking the necessary action to support the countries most affected by the pandemic by donating at least 100 million vaccine doses by the end of 2021. i also think it is a good idea to support efforts to provide vaccines to the western balkan countries and the eastern partnership countries by encouraging their resale opportunities. the commission should support member states in assisting and implementing procedures for contracts, transport and supplies from member states to countries in need, using the legal framework of the union civil protection mechanism, while respecting the principles aimed at applying export restrictions and maintaining open supply chains. there are two things to focus on. the first action concerns the possible possibility of future vaccine production, when eu countries should be ready to export a certain part of their domestic production also to other countries. the commission should therefore, in close dialogue with member states' governments, start now to develop an early and precise framework for potential legal action in this area. the next action concerns the commission, which should support the member states, taking into account existing bilateral agreements concluded within the framework of the european external action service, by establishing a vaccine sharing mechanism with the eastern partnership countries.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, let us give a warm welcome to president joe biden, who is an honourable gentleman and a reliable ally. it doesn’t mean that we have to agree on everything. i personally believe that decisions on nord stream and on afghanistan are mistakes, but it means that we can do things together. what i’d like us to do is to strengthen our democracies, including through sensible regulation of social media, and to complete the deal on taxes and tax havens as we need the money to revive our economies. and, as the commissioner has just mentioned, to develop common positions on china, on security standards, investments and regulation. president biden, you’ll be seeing vladimir putin. please tell him from us that if he blackmails countries with gas, nord stream sanctions will return. if he attacks a neighbour again, we will respond with deeds, not just words. lastly, that every time he or mr lukashenko murders or kidnaps an opponent in the west, we will double our assistance to russian and belarusian democrats. amen.
for the greens/efa group madam president metsola, ladies and gentlemen, every second, day and night, the equivalent of a nurse's annual salary is being taken to a tax haven. this tax evasion, for the benefit of multinationals and the super-rich, is a cancer for our democracies. it is fundamentally unfair to the baker, the barber, the small businessman, the teacher, the nurse who pay their fair share and more to the community. it undermines our public services, it increases inequality and it undermines the trust of citizens in their institutions. finally, it wastes precious resources which we desperately need to face global challenges such as economic recovery and, above all, the ecological and solidarity transition. the agreement in principle reached this weekend by the g7 finance ministers therefore potentially marks a major turning point for tax justice, because by deciding to introduce a global minimum corporate tax, the totem of tax competition is being blown to bits and the business model of tax havens is losing its raison d'être. but as was the case in the past with the lifting of banking secrecy, the initiative is american, and it is on the european side that the ambition is lacking. while the biden administration is proposing an ambitious outlook with a minimum rate of 21%, european states are pushing for a compromise of 15%, led by france. let us look at the figures: a rate of 15% would bring the european union 50 billion in annual income, a rate of 21% would bring twice that. the double, my colleagues! even today, too many european governments cling to the toxic and false myth of the trickle-down, that the profits of big business and the super-rich benefit everyone. it is high time they remembered that their mission is to serve the common good and not the 'happy few'. so i am glad that multilateralism is getting off to a new start, but we must move from intentions to action. on climate, the impetus is european and it is high time the us administration made a concrete commitment. in taxation, however, the roles are reversed. let each one show ambition, rather than timidity.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank commissioner dombrovskis and the portuguese presidency. the next g7 is, in my view, a key opportunity for the european union. it is an opportunity to listen, to learn and to analyse some of the strategic mistakes that the union has unfortunately made on very important issues that it will be good to correct in the future. the first is our relationship with the united kingdom, a country which, despite what has happened, must still be a country from which we have much to learn. the united kingdom, which will host this meeting, is a country that will emerge stronger and healthier than the european union from this pandemic. the economy will run faster and the vaccination campaign, unlike what happened here, has been a success. i believe that this is a great opportunity to bury the hatchet with the united kingdom, to accept what has been a choice of the british people and to renew a new cooperation with a country which is strategic and very important to us. there is the issue of our relationship with the united states and here again we have much to learn from this administration. the so-called progressives in particular have a lot to learn, and i would like to know what they have to say about the sentences about the origin of the chinese virus, which this american administration is still questioning, or the sentences of vice-president harris about migrants. the united states, once again, is teaching us a lesson, that whatever administration is in office, the national interest comes first. and then, finally, the issue of taxes, a very important issue. progress has been made, but it is still not enough. and europe, which is home to tax havens and which had the head of this system as president of the commission, still has a lot to do in this space. if we can understand these mistakes, if we can take these countries as an example to correct these mistakes, then this meeting can really be useful to the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in the face of a pandemic, his words remind us that governments are never the problem, but the solution. and in times of crisis, we need governments with more resources to fund basic public services, as well as to ensure social cohesion and the survival of democracy itself. the historic agreement to establish a global minimum rate of 15% on corporation tax and for large multinationals to pay taxes where they make profits opens up a new era of fiscal justice historically demanded by social democracy. president biden said that it was the middle class and not wall street that built america and also in europe it was always the humblest class that made this continent revive from its ashes. and now, on both sides of the atlantic, we cannot leave them to their fate. the time has come to lead with the united states a global agreement this summer at the g20 summit and at the oecd. for the expression of 'historic agreement' to become an effective reality, it is essential that international cooperation extends to other areas, such as the vaccination challenge. we in the european union can be proud to have exported as many vaccines as we have used for our own continent. but not all the g7 powers have done the same. the temporary suspension of intellectual property rights to vaccines cannot wait any longer. it is immoral that while rich countries are debating the third dose, most people in developing countries do not even have the first. the summit with the united states should serve not only to revitalize the transatlantic agenda, but also to reverse the decisions of the trump administration that have convulsed our neighborhood. in the middle east, we need the united states to commit itself firmly to the two-state solution within the framework of international law. the commemoration this year of the 30th anniversary of the madrid peace conference, which led to the oslo accords, is an opportunity to relaunch the arab-israeli peace process. the way forward was already indicated by isaac rabin: "negotiate peace as if there were no terrorism, and combat terrorism as if there were no peace talks". we are at a real turning point in history. the post-pandemic multilateral framework will depend on the true determination of the great powers to intensify their cooperation. as the european union, let us use the strength of our unity and our democratic values to change the global balance in favour of democracy, freedom and equality.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. after the g7 industrialized nations finally agreed on a minimum corporate tax, there was a lot of praise, including self-praise. the german finance minister even spoke of a tax revolution. i'd like to see what olaf scholz means when he talks about a revolution. in the 1970s, the average oecd corporate tax rate was 45 percent. five decades later, after a ruinous international dumping competition for the lowest tax rates, it is still 25 percent. in addition, multinational corporations shift over a trillion euros of profits to tax havens every year. and so the g7 is now proposing a minimum tax for multinationals of just 15 percent. this is roughly equivalent to the rates charged in tax havens such as ireland, switzerland and singapore. we must put an end to tax dumping and put a stop to tax avoidance. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. and the upcoming eu-us summit must send a clear message to companies like amazon: if you want to play in the european digital market, play by our rules! jeff bezos, pay your taxes like every decent person does! hunger wages are unacceptable, union busting is unacceptable, the monitoring of workers is unacceptable! european workers have the right to organise in a trade union and to enjoy good working conditions. and the us is calling - along with over 100 other countries - for the suspension of patent protection for coronavirus vaccines in order to successfully fight the pandemic worldwide. the only people who are still standing in the way of this concern are the eu member states and the commission, because global health protection seems to be worth less than the profit motive of the pharmaceutical industry. i really hope that joe biden will teach you some more reason and you will give up this wrong policy. and please tell the us president that many europeans are concerned about the growing tensions between china and the us and that they do not want any further dangerous escalation with russia. peace in europe also means not starting a new cold war. the eu should not fall back into blind vassalage to the us but should seek a peacekeeping role in world politics, with independent relations with china, russia and also the us, based on a multilateralism in which possible international conflicts are resolved by international law.
madam president, the depth of the capitalist crisis belies the bourgeois expectations of the eu and the us that recovery funds or state subsidies would ensure a rapid recovery and a victory in international competition against china and its interests. the successive meetings in june of the eu, nato, the g7 and the eu-us meeting were marked by the search for new, more effective arrangements vis-à-vis china and russia. but these imperialist alliances have nothing to do with the interests of the peoples. the digital and green transition that the eu and biden are preaching is neither charitable nor environmentally friendly nor peaceful. the minimal, figurative taxes on monopolies are a drop in the ocean of tax havens, tax exemptions and the countless tools they have to pass on any new tax burdens to the people, including more expensive goods and services. in their struggle for independence, the peoples must chart their own course in accordance with their own interests and needs, in conflict with their monopolies, associations and governments.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, everything is becoming global except politics. the economy, the culture, the social relations, even the diseases, the crises are globalized. lies are becoming global. everything is global, but politics is not. the democratic principle is not, the principle of equality is not, freedom is not. paradoxically, the greater the scope of our coexistence, the smaller the space of our politics. economic globalization is producing political nationalism. today it is easier to open a current account in any bank in the world than to vote in the legislative elections of our country from abroad. there are many global companies that have budgets and revenues that are higher than the gdps of many industrialized countries. i'm not talking about others. industrialized for example, walmart in the us has more revenue than the gdp of belgium. to continue to think that globalisation is self-governing is to remain europeans at the mercy of the chinese development model. that is why the agreement reached by the g7 to set a global minimum corporate tax rate is a breakthrough, because taxes must be paid where profits are made and because tax havens are the cancer of global politics. let us take advantage of the talks with the united states to relaunch the free trade agreement because if we are not in globalisation, globalisation will marginalise us and we will no longer be politically influential.
madam president, the pandemic has hit our economies hard. the upcoming g7 summit will also discuss a global recovery response. everybody should play their part, and yet there are some that are not paying their fair share in the struggle. last week’s agreement of g7 finance ministers shows that citizens’ disapproval of tax bailouts for corporations has been heard. i welcome the deal. however, i hope that the g7 summit will bring us even more ambitious solutions. still, we are far from a done deal. are we sure that all eu countries will adopt this deal when their competitive advantage is a tax rate lower than the one proposed? how many and which companies would be covered? this house gives the commission a clear mandate to act tough on tax fairness and transparency at the g7 summit. we are not ready to play nice with crooks and tax havens, especially not now.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the subject of today's debate is once again the rule of law, and the rule of law in the sense that it could also harm the financial interests of the european union. we have jointly enforced this historic instrument. now it's about putting it into practice. but we must not confuse the different things. we have different laws, and we can act in the light of them. it is not a partisan political instrument either. it must be an instrument that is adequately implemented, applied and used from the front to the back, in a neutral manner, and where one side does not try to speak out from the house and the other side does not try to use it in the election campaign, so to speak. what we need is careful implementation. i would like to ask the commissioner to make the following request: the impression must never be given that potentially concerned governments or heads of government are deciding on or preventing the implementation of valid european union legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it is not a question of whether the commission is interfering in national law - i would like to say this to my colleagues on the right - because it is a question of ensuring that the basic pillars of our rule of law are respected. this means an independent judiciary, this means proper, neutral state administrations, it is not right that oligarchs can cash in the most money in certain member states. we need neutrality, and the taxpayers expect us to be good and careful, honest and fair with the taxpayers' money. it's not about more or less. i would ask the commission to present the guidelines or methodology and i would also ask the parliament to inform us of the cases on which it is working. if necessary, this can be done in a closed session, but it is essential that parliament is informed precisely of how the commission is proceeding, so that it does not even have the impression that it is doing so, and that procedures are also initiated where there are clear findings.
madam president! it is time for the european union to finally answer the question of what values it is based on. what is it that unites us as a community? respect for human rights or just highways? what are our common ground? equality and dignity for all people or just agricultural policy? what are we trying to protect? women experiencing violence or just an economy in crisis? the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, is obliged to fight for the rule of law, and the fight for the rule of law is not only a fight for the independence of the judiciary, but above all for the foundation of the rule of law, for human rights. or is the commission no longer motivated? he doesn't think it's possible. i ask because two years have passed since the commission's action and the commission has not taken effective action when the polish government violates the rights of lgbt+ people, deprives women of the right to abortion and attacks the anti-violence convention. it is time to answer the question of whether we want such a commission.
mr president, with due respect to the minister and the commissioner personally, i do not think this is a budget matter. this is chefsache. this is about the values of the european union. it goes to the heart of what we are about and i think ms von der leyen and mr michel should have been here. i will not try to convince commission and council, because they have chosen sides a long time ago: the side of the enablers. so it’s for this house to stand up for the rule of law and for the eu democratic constitutional order. i hear colleagues saying no, we need to wait, we need more time, we need more information, we need guidelines. no, colleagues! time matters. with every day that we wait, democracy and the rule of law die a little bit more, so any delay – any delay – is guilty. so we have to choose sides today. are we on the side of the enablers, or are we on the side of the defenders of the european values? i know what side i am on, along, i hope, with a majority of this house.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the european left has a clear goal of punishing those who disagree with them, who say no to illegal immigration, to the stealthy takeover of national powers, to gender madness. i'm afraid that's not news. the european commission is right to await the decision of the court of justice of the european union and to act accordingly. we know that hungary is particularly in the crosshairs of the left. the hungarian left is also playing a significant role in the drive-by hunt against our country. no wonder the left-wing majority in the european parliament is using every means to punish those who dissent. it is particularly sad that the european people's party has succumbed to the pressure of the left, is serving the expectations of the left and is helping to transform the european parliament from a co-legislature into a political police.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the regulation on the protection of the budget of the european union and the rule of law entered into force on 1 january. we must react, we must act when necessary and necessary, because it is our duty to protect the rights of citizens, to protect the money of eu taxpayers, to protect the independence of the courts, so that we have legal guarantees, to protect the free media, because it is the pillar of democracy. and it's not a question of left or right. it is our duty as those who have to see to it that the eu funds are spent as they are intended. therefore, as the head of the delegation of the polish civic platform and the polish people's party, i confirm, yes, we stand firmly on the guard of the rule of law, and i want to say only one thing to our adversaries. don't insult yourself or others. do not insult the courts and the european institutions. you just have to be faithful to one commandment. and the quote is from you, "you just don't steal". just don't break the law. then no government will have to fear the mechanisms that have been in place since january 1. i hope to the satisfaction of all europeans.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. you can't hide it. you got a bucket of cold water today. you need to get your shit together. this cannot continue, because from this place, in the next debate, we will defend democracy around the world, we will speak about our values, democracy, human rights, the rule of law, and we will expect these values to be implemented around the world. and within the european union itself, we are unable to make sure that kaczynski and orbán do not treat the european union as an atm machine from which they can withdraw money without any rules, without any conditions. that cannot be, because the credibility of the european union is at stake, not just here, not just among the people of the european union, but also around the world. that's why your response must be immediate.
member of the commission. the commission is not i am grateful to the commission for its support for the report and for the work it has done. but to be honest, i didn't expect anything else. but i am concerned - personally, but also for my team - to say: well, i will not let us be accused of having been inactive or not being active. i was already there when we were fighting for the introduction of the european public prosecutor - a very strong initiative at the time by my former colleague and your colleague viviane reding. i was finally involved in the reform of olaf, which was negotiated for years. as regional commissioner, i have seen enough to cause me trouble. and i was involved in the commission's proposal in 2018 to create exactly this rule of law mechanism. believe me, i'm motivated to the hilt that we're gonna make this thing happen. but because i'm so motivated, i also want to make sure that this thing works from the beginning. i would like to say that the commission is very pleased that the council has taken the initiative of adopting the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. so we really not only took the time, but it was also necessary to distill out, by analysing a variety of information, reports, reports etc., where we think the starting points are. we will be sending the draft internal guidelines to parliament and the council next week, as we have been announcing for weeks, and you will then be asked to give your opinion on them. because at the end of the day, we're only gonna succeed if we work together. and speaking of common sense, there is only one kind of rule of law. there is no rule of law that can be developed and applied in a particular society or country. we should all be aware of this when i hear one or other of the statements made here. we will use this instrument without prejudice to the individual parties which may be in government here and there in a country, and we do not look - quite frankly - at when and where any elections are held. what has to be done is done, regardless of persons, parties or election dates. what matters is what unites us all: that we safeguard, develop and protect the rule of law in europe in the interests of our citizens.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner hahn, ladies and gentlemen, parliament, the commission and the council share the objective of ensuring the smooth functioning of our union. we also agree that this requires full respect for the rule of law as provided for in the treaties. that is why we have jointly adopted various preventive and response instruments, including the rule of law conditionality regulation. at the same time, we know that the rule of law is a complex issue and that is why we have the european court of justice to help us. we understand parliament's concern to get results quickly and i know that parliament has put a request to the court for an acceleration of the procedure concerning the applications for annulment of the new rule of law conditionality regulation. the presidency hopes that this will be possible so that we can continue our political dialogue on this important subject on a sound legal basis. this instrument is of great importance in the overall architecture of defence of the rule of law and we need it to be used in an objective, coherent, predictable and credible way.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today and the final vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. the rule of law is a guarantee of citizens' freedom. so we are not defending a theoretical concept in parliament today. we're defending the freedoms and rights of specific people. silesian understands that. when you live in a family with other people, you have to follow the rules. and in touch with his neighbors, and with his family. if she's violent, the neighbors will defend her. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. suspension until the violation is cleared. it should also be noted that, during the suspension of payments, the final beneficiaries will still receive the funds, as the suspension does not affect the payment obligations of the government entities. understandably, the commission does not want to be dragged into the kind of trouble that orbán and morawiecki are so eager to cause. but getting tired of their governments' breaches of the rule of law does not absolve them from their obligation to comply with eu law. our resolution is intended to remind the commission of this in an effective way. eu funds are for people, not governments. governments are just intermediaries. and if the middleman starts cheating, you have to discipline him. every day without a rule of law is one day too many. for democracy and for those who fight for it at great cost, the activists, the human rights defenders. it's just another day of allowing democracy to die. we can't be blind to this. we don't want to be wise after the fact.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. support for the porto declaration is based on the belief that social solidarity is the way to reduce the growing inequalities in various areas of socio-economic life after the pandemic crisis. at the same time, we would like to stress on behalf of the ecr that social and employment policy is primarily implemented by the member states, which are responsible for national strategies to address social problems. and those powers cannot be questioned. strengthening the social dimension of the european union cannot be a pretext for protectionist measures and must not lead to distortions of the internal market of the european union. the implementation of the pillar should be ensured by national recovery plans taking into account national circumstances, while respecting the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. a social europe yes, but above all a europe with a strong economy, a strong family, values and a stable labour market. and europe is fairer in its judgments.
madam president! i am sure that many of us will be signing the minutes and conclusions of the social summit in porto, because the issues raised there are indeed important and concern every citizen of the european union. europeans have the right to a decent life, to good jobs, to safety, to raise their children according to the values that are important to them. this is the right of each of us, of every citizen of the european union. and it is our duty as those who work in the european union, in the institutions of the european union, in the committees of this parliament, to ensure that these rights of the european people are upheld and that the treaties are respected. that is why, when we talk about the porto summit, we must also bear in mind what is the competence of the member states and what should remain the competence of the member states. and our duty here, the duty of parliament and the commission, is to support the member states.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. hackers sponsored by hostile governments are remotely attacking european hospitals, nuclear power plants, public institutions, and public figures. this is not science fiction, it's slowly becoming reality. a new front has emerged in the geopolitical arena, another front of cyberspace. here's just one example from this week: yesterday, the email and social media accounts of the chief of staff of the prime minister of poland were hacked. at the same time, his wife's account was used to publish a false statement suggesting interference by poland in the internal affairs of belarus. this is classic misinformation and no doubt it has to do with the fact that this person, mikhail dworczyk, has been actively promoting democratic change in the former soviet union for many years. he was also banned from entering belarus and russia for many years. the more we depend on online technology, the more vulnerable we become. russia, china, iran, they all know this, and their attacks on our facilities are increasingly threatening our lives and our health. we can't just sit back and watch. on the cyber front, the european union must be united and cooperate vigorously.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, with the pandemic crisis our exposure to cyberattacks has increased exponentially and in some cases this increase is reported to be as high as 150%. but we cannot stop at the european institutions or the big companies. we must also think of small and mediumsized enterprises and workers who often do not even have the tools to identify these same attacks. at a time when the digital transition is at the heart of our political agenda and is a substantial part of the recovery and resilience funds in each country, we call for measures to be taken not to reinforce existing inequalities and to ensure that the digital transition reaches everyone. for this it is also important to ensure that personal data is protected at all times and cannot be used as a side effect. it is also important to ensure neutrality and open access to all mechanisms that may be available in the framework of digital integration.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, secretary of state, our resilience to cyberattacks, our ability to react to them and the deterrent tools we will have at our disposal will not only determine the proper functioning of all those activities which are now carried out entirely in the digital world, but also and above all the union's ability to rise to the role of a leading geopolitical actor. the demarcation line between the internal and external security of the union is eroding in all domains, and in the digital domain, in fact, these two dimensions overlap almost completely. the ability to rely on high levels of cybersecurity is a strategic imperative. we have made great strides so far, but more needs to be done. in addition to protecting ourselves from external attacks, we should once again champion a free, safe and rules-based world by pushing for binding multilateral regulations and making full use of the cyber diplomacy tools in our arsenal. for 70 years the european union has been synonymous with freedom and security. for the next 70 years, our goal must be to extend this assumption to the digital world.
chairman of the court, good colleagues! i feel very justified in discussing cybersecurity issues in the plenary session of the parliament. i am convinced that many more people and businesses are suffering from cyberattacks in europe and the world at large than we can imagine. over the past few years, several large-scale attacks have been made public, targeting large it companies or critical infrastructure. we know that attribution of cyber attacks is complicated and identifying the perpetrator of an attack can take a very long time. but it's also clear that behind many of the large-scale attacks, like solarwinds or microsoft exchange, we see the work of authoritarian regimes like russia and china. the number of ransomware attacks against individuals, smes and publicly traded companies is increasing. the criminals' modus operandi has become more sophisticated, for example, access to the computer systems of large publicly traded companies allows them to manipulate and threaten the activities of very large companies. i believe that the european union needs to strengthen cooperation between member states in particular in ensuring cybersecurity. we have a responsibility to protect our businesses and our citizens.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. we live in an age of black mirrors, black glitter, cyber attacks and disinformation. how can you protect yourself? regardless of the safeguards, at the end of every security chain is a human being, often the weakest link. yesterday's break-in at the private box of the polish prime minister's chief of staff. the stolen business documents are posted on the telegram messenger, popular in the east, a few moments later. they're about immigrants from belarus. if the official had these documents on his private email, then the security of the network is secondary. it's the atmosphere. the web shapes the real world. one tweet from musk and the price of bitcoin drops dramatically. troll factories and the ordinary anti-european propaganda of the national media are fuelling the hatred for the european project. cyberattacks on freedom of thought and the right to information are not spectacular. cyber propaganda is slow to spread, but is it any less dangerous? the answer to that question is the key to our freedom.
member of the commission. – madam president, the tactics, techniques and procedures employed by threat actors continue evolving in their attempt to avoid further detection and remediation efforts by our cyber defence. the pace at which these threat actors conduct cyberattacks is higher than ever, while their campaigns are increasingly sophisticated and automated, quickly exploiting vulnerabilities. the union’s cybersecurity strategy stresses that technological sovereignty is key to building a more resilient union. the cybersecurity industrial, technology and research competence centre will play a key role in delivering on the ambitious cybersecurity objectives of the digital europe and horizon europe programmes. we call on the member states to make these investments. the recovery and resilience facility funding will also be crucial to reinforce the eu cybershield through enhanced detection and response capabilities, for instance in security operations centres and quantum computing infrastructure. the funds could be used to increase the preparedness of sectors, and for skills and training and reinforcing research and development. the digital europe programme will also fund the design and delivery of specialised programmes and traineeships for future experts in cybersecurity. with the european defence fund, the commission will co-fund joint defence r&d projects, including in the areas of cybersecurity and cyber defence. lastly, the commission, as part of its action plan on synergies between civil defence and space industries, will set up an eu observatory of critical technologies using its own resources. the proposal for a regulation on cybersecurity for the institutions in october 2021 will be the commission’s commitment to maintain high cyber standards also in the european institutions, bodies and agencies. your commitment is needed to maintain the ambition in the nis 2 directive. this means keeping its scope. it means a commitment to an open but trustworthy core internet in europe. it means confirming the legal obligation to making an agile response to incidents. our operational teams are ready to embrace a mandatory 24-hour notification of major incidents to the competent authorities in the eu institutions. in fact, they believe it’s crucial to allow us to get an overview of the scope of an attack and coordinate. so we should not ask member states to be less ambitious. this is no time to lower our guard. we are deeply committed to keeping the ambition high, so i expect that we can count on you to do the same.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from this debate that the ongoing digital transformation offers us enormous opportunities, but also enormous challenges, including cybersecurity. we've heard how cybersecurity incidents are increasing in scale and sophistication, as evidenced by the cases of solarwinds, microsoft exchange server, the cyberattack on the european medicines agency, or the recent case that targeted the irish national health system. we are facing threats to our democratic processes, our institutions and our businesses, which are resulting in very significant financial losses for various sectors. these incidents aim to exploit vulnerabilities in our information and communication systems, making our cybersecurity preparedness and resilience more vital than ever. it is therefore essential that the european institutions and member states work together to improve our resilience. the european union cybersecurity strategy is undoubtedly a key instrument for keeping the union secure in the digital age. but we all know we have to be vigilant, because the threats and misinformation are always one step ahead of us, and the technological challenges are continuous. many measures have already been taken and are being discussed in this debate, including the recent regulation on the european network and information security agency (enisa) and the european cybersecurity competence centre. but we must be able to continue to take the appropriate measures and use the necessary financial instruments to strengthen our capacity in this area in freedom and security. we also look forward to the commission's new proposals on common rules on security and information on cybersecurity for all the institutions and bodies of the european union and count on the support of the european parliament to move swiftly forward with the negotiations on these proposals once the relevant instruments are presented by the commission. it's time to be ambitious. thank you very much. i thank you again for your attention.
the joint debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, and the final vote will take place tomorrow, 10 june 2021. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. unfortunately, the eu may appear to be vulnerable to cyberattacks in the modern world. unfortunately, we lack the tools to fight it effectively. unfortunately, we lack european solidarity in this respect. it's about cooperation and sharing information. we have some of the best computer scientists in the world, but we're not using that potential to protect. it is in our mutual interest to act urgently and make up for lost time.
madam chairman! as a danish politician with a long experience of the folketing with the ombudsman, i know that an ombudsman must be completely independent of party politics and always ready to criticise the authorities if they do not observe good administration or otherwise violate the rights of citizens. a good ombudsman is often unpopular with the powers that be, and that is the way it should be. i was a little shocked when i came to the european parliament in 2004 and, when electing the ombudsman, discovered a violent attempt at party political control, which we always barely prevented. in the course of this review we have also seen several governments try to weaken the office. it is therefore liberating that we are now securing the ombudsman's election against party politics and also making her right to initiate an inquiry into the eu institutions absolutely clear. the ombudsman is an independent and competent institution and is of great importance to democracy. and i would recommend that those member states which do not have a proper ombudsman should do so. you can use the danish one as a model, but now also the european one. that's good.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is a cumbersome administrative machine whose malfunctioning can have serious consequences for those who are administered. the role of the ombudsman is precisely to remedy these dysfunctions. the ombudsman has done this job well since he was created in 1995, but he admits that he is sometimes powerless. it is therefore essential to increase its powers to increase its efficiency. this is precisely the subject of the draft regulation we are debating. it is intended, in particular, to enable the ombudsman to conduct inquiries on his own initiative, independently of any complaint. it also requires the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies to provide it with the information it requires in its investigations in good faith. i therefore support this reform, because it will enable the ombudsman to tackle the union's dysfunctions more effectively, even if it will not, by any means, be enough to solve all the problems.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for this discussion and for their statements and comments. i reiterate that the european commission is satisfied with the negotiated proposal and is ready to issue a positive opinion. good administration, which is the main aim of the work of the european ombudsperson, as enshrined in article 41 of the eu’s charter of fundamental rights, helps to deliver an open, accessible and well—managed eu administration for all citizens, companies and associations with whom all our institutions, agencies, bodies and offices interact on a daily basis. the european commission should, in principle, issue its opinion on your proposal on 18 june, allowing the new regulation to be voted as planned at the coming plenary session. thank you once more for your attention and for the good work on this file.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, members, just to briefly thank mrs o'reilly for her dedicated and daily and intensive work and to wish her every success in her duties on the basis of the new extended statute of the ombudsman. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr paulo rangel, and his team for their work, dedication, in-depth legal knowledge and pragmatism. we also thank the spirit of commitment of the rapporteurs from the different political families of this parliament, the european commission and also the member states, who supported the portuguese presidency during the informal consultations which led to this result. the commission's positive opinion is confirmed, and i would also like to reiterate that if this house approves the proposal under discussion, the council will be in a position to give its consent in time for the next plenary session in june.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, wednesday, june 9, 2021.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the 80th anniversary of the mass deportations of 14-18 june 1941 (2021/2746 (rsp)). i would point out to members that a group debate is planned as part of this debate.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i thank you for this debate. our collective history is fundamentally important for europe’s present and future. the eu was born from the ashes of world war ii and the holocaust and in opposition to totalitarian states and thought. these historical facts are undeniable and preserving their memory is among the main pillars of the european project, but also our responsibility for its future. the signature of the molotov-ribbentrop pact between nazi germany and the soviet union on 23 august 1939 opened a dark chapter in european history and paved the way for world war ii. the nazi—soviet alliance enabled the invasion of poland by nazi germany and soon afterwards by soviet troops that subsequently annexed also the baltic republics and bessarabia. today’s commemoration shows that we must highlight the horrors committed by both regimes. the nazi occupation led to the countless crimes against civilians and to the holocaust. the soviet occupation which followed the invasion of 1939 and annexations of 1940, led at the same time to massive crimes against the population in the occupied territories of poland, as well as in the baltic states and other areas under soviet occupation. the mass deportation of political, economic and intellectual elites to the wastelands of the soviet union was a brutal act meant to establish bolshevik control over these countries. they were meant to suppress and destroy part of society that stalin and his henchmen saw as threats or just undesirable. most of the deportees – men, women and children – were sent to siberia, and many of them died. i know that there are many among you who have relatives that were victims of the deportations. we will never forget them. the soviet occupation had devastating consequences for a large part of europe. yes, history is complicated and we cannot forget about the role that the red army soldiers played in the crucial part of the war when hitler betrayed stalin and launched an attack of unprecedented size and leading to immense suffering of the people of eastern europe and the soviet union. it is a fact that these soldiers pushed out the german soldiers from central and eastern europe after heroic sacrifices. it is a fact that they played a key role in liberating central and eastern europe from nazism. however, after the end of world war ii, central and eastern europeans continued to endure suffering under the totalitarian communist regimes for decades. this is why we have established 23 august as the official day of the memory of the millions of victims of totalitarian regimes. the commission encourages member states to examine the possibility to adhere to this europe-wide day in the light of their own history and specificities. preserving and promoting the shared memory of the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes is also crucial to educate younger generations. it shows how important it is to defend democracy and fundamental rights. i am looking forward to your discussion today.
for the renew group mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are commemorating one of the darkest events in european history, the agreement signed by the soviets and the nazis on 23 august 1939, known to us as the molotov-ribbentrop pact. the dictators of europe then decided the fate of many european nations and states, justifying the bloodiest ideologies with the shattered and broken destinies and lives of people. the communist-soviet regime sought to unconditionally integrate the societies of the occupied countries, including my native lithuania, and foresaw the systematic isolation and ultimate destruction of civil society and its most active members. thus, on the night of june 14, 1941, arrests were made throughout lithuania, followed by the deportation of innocent people to far-off siberia and the north, which was considered a crime against humanity. if nazism created concentration camps, sovietism created a camp system that only began to decline in the mid-1950's. between 14 and 18 june 1941, about 18 000 people, including women and children, were deported from lithuania. innocent prisoners were loaded onto freight cars and transported for months to camps and other unsuitable places of exile. some got sick and died on the way. a little over 30% of the deportees returned to lithuania, 26% died in exile or in prison, about 40% we have no information. it is deplorable that the soviet authorities who organized the riots have legal protection in putin's russia today. when the stories of abortion are treated as crimes, abortion museums are destroyed and historians are persecuted. the loss of 300,000 lithuanians, which is two thirds of the population of strasbourg today, during the deportations initiated by the soviets, is a crime that we must condemn.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not the truth of history is bitter, but it seems better to speak it than to hide it, said alexander solzhenitsyn. the victims of the gulag system and their families, including many communists, deserve our respect and sympathy. the european parliament has been a key player in the development of the european union, and it has been a key player in the development of the european union. it is right to deal critically with history. but it is wrong, as some here in this house are trying to exploit history by means of the theory of totalitarianism, in order to discredit the current aspiration to a society free of capitalism and fascism on the one hand and to further fuel the confrontation with today's russia on the other. the european parliament has been a key player in the fight against racism and xenophobia in the european union since the beginning of the 20th century.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission is committed to contributing, within the scope of its powers, to the promotion of the shared memory of crimes committed by totalitarian regimes in europe. from 2014 to 2020, we supported many initiatives under the european remembrance strand of the europe for citizens programme. we helped raise awareness of the lessons learned from the horrible actions of totalitarian regimes and preserved the memory of their victims. in 2020, 49 european remembrance projects were selected for funding for a total amount of eur 4 422 000. we will carry on supporting similar projects after 2021. the new citizens, equality, rights and values programme will strengthen the support to activities that deal with the causes of totalitarian regimes in europe’s modern history, in particular nazism, which led to the holocaust, fascism, stalinism and totalitarian communist regimes, and commemorate the victims of their crimes. a eur 4.5 million call for proposals on european remembrance is currently open for applications. we will finance projects that raise awareness of defining moments in european history and projects that analyse and highlight resistance to totalitarian rule leading up to democratic transition, looking to democratic consolidation in the eu. we do so not just because it is the right thing to do, but because it is a necessity. we share european history and we must remember it. preserving our common memory of the dark experience and the tragic consequences of totalitarianism is essential to reaffirm our joint commitment to safeguarding our common values of human dignity, fundamental rights, the rule of law and democracy. we must fight for these values every day.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.34 p.m.) written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. on september 17, 1939, the soviet union attacked poland and implemented the pact with nazi germany. hitler and stalin, in pursuit of their joint plans for the conquest of central and eastern europe, did not hesitate to pursue a policy of extermination and genocide. today we pay tribute to the genocidal policy of deportation to siberia. 80 years ago, the export of the conquered baltic states reached its peak. deportations from occupied polish territories took place on the eve of the outbreak of the german-soviet war. four waves of deportations in 1940-1941 were to destroy the traces of polish statehood in the occupied areas and their unification with the soviet union. the knowledge of the crimes of the communist regime is an essential part of europe's social memory. these events must be strongly represented in the permanent exhibition of the house of european history and in other historical and cultural institutions to be remembered. it is a necessary condition to prevent attempts to conceal and falsify history, but also to counteract any criminal and totalitarian regime. this is not a challenge for the distant future. today, in our immediate neighborhood, there is a regime that glorifies stalin, destroying the lives of innocent people - both its own citizens and peaceful neighbors. it is good that parliament is remembering the tragic past, so as not to repeat the mistakes that led to the suffering and death of millions of europeans.
before the second round of voting begins today, i would like to give the floor to mr rangel, who is asking for the final vote on his report on the rules and general conditions governing the performance of the ombudsman's duties to be postponed in accordance with rule 46.
the rapporteur. - mr president, pursuant to rule 46 of the rules of procedure, after the vote on the proposed act, i, as rapporteur, ask that the vote on the legislative resolution be postponed until the council has given its consent, the commission has delivered its opinion and we are then in a position to complete the vote at the next part-session at the end of june.
this request will be put to the vote after the vote on the annex to the draft regulation. we now come to the second round of voting today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 8 p.m. to 9.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 9.15 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced tomorrow at 9 a.m. the debate will resume at 8.30 p.m. with statements by the council and the commission on women in politics and combating online abuse. (the sitting was suspended at 8.05 p.m.)
good evening, colleagues. let us now proceed with the discussions. the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the subject of women in politics: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i therefore give the floor to the under-secretary for european affairs, mrs zacarias, on behalf of the council.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, dear commissioner dalli, honourable members, thank you for organising this debate. as the council has often noted, women continue to be seriously under—represented in decision—making, including in politics and business. the situation is improving, but much too slowly. meanwhile, gender—based violence remains a grim reality for millions of european women and girls – a severe manifestation of gender inequality. it is also a human rights violation and a cause of suffering. in your resolution on the commission’s gender equality strategy adopted in january this year, you rightly pointed out that cyberviolence disproportionately affects women and girls. its manifestation ranges from online harassment and cyberbullying to sexist hate speech. your resolution also stresses that cyberviolence particularly affects activists, women politicians and other public figures. in this strategy, the commission has wisely undertaken to address this problem in the context of the digital policy. sadly enough, there is a close link between women’s under—representation in decision—making, on the one hand, and the violence that they experience on the other. because it is brutally disempowering, intimidating and damaging, violence is not just a symptom, but also a perpetuating cause of inequality. the experience of online abuse undermines the role and the capacities of decision—makers and that is, of course, precisely the intentions of the perpetrators. meanwhile, the risk of online abuse is likely to discourage people from becoming decision—makers in the first place and this chilling effect is an affront to democracy. we must address all obstacles that discourage women from participating in political life, all forms of gender—based violence, including cyberviolence, must be combated with total determination. freedom of speech gives no one the right to abuse others. as you will know, the proposal for a digital services act is currently under examination by the council as a matter of priority. the regulation will, once adopted, make it easier to intervene against illegal online abuse and violence across the internal borders of the union. although the definition of what is illegal will in general remain a national competence, the harmonisation of the injunctions to service providers will, for example, make it easier to request that illegal content is removed from the internet. i am proud to say that the european parliament and the council are long—standing allies in the battle for gender equality, including the campaign for more equal decision—making. the council has called on the commission and the member states to strengthen their commitment to the promotion of gender equality and women’s empowerment, and it has specifically called for measures to improve gender balance on decision—making across the board – in politics, to be sure, but also in the economy and within the eu institutions. the post—pandemic recovery policies will be with us for years to come, including in the context of the digital transition, and in this area equal participation in political decision—making is particularly crucial. we need female politicians’ voices and perspectives in order to ensure gender—responsive policies and a fair and sustainable recovery. the council has also called for measures to increase the representation of women in decision—making in areas such as academia, science, research institutions, the media and sports, and we have also called for a renewed commitment to eliminating gender—based violence, including on cyberviolence. thank you very much for your attention. (applause)
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, while in this house women’s representation has a better record – at 40% – compared to the eu average, men still outnumber women in positions of political power. on average, women account for just one in three of the seats in the eu’s national parliaments, and only 21% of leaders of major political parties are women. the increased use of social media and online tools in politics have provided great opportunities in terms of inclusion, participation in public debates and access to information. however, as we all know, there is also a downside to this development: the exposure to online violence, threats and harassment. last year, the world wide web foundation found that 52% of young women and girls had experienced online violence, including threats and sexual harassment. hateful online targeting makes it even more difficult to allow women to participate in public life. it can dissuade women from running as candidates in elections or from participating in public online debates, and can also lead to women ending their political careers prematurely. online attacks and disinformation are used to undermine women’s political credibility and question their decision—making capabilities. when violence occurs online, women are both the primary targets and are also forced to be the first responders. on social media platforms they are the ones who have to request the deletion of the hateful comments after they have been posted. a study by the inter—parliamentary union and the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe shows that 85.2% of the female parliamentarians interviewed had experienced psychological violence. almost half of the respondents reported having received death threats or threats of rape and beatings directed against themselves or family members. in most cases, the threats were delivered by electronic means. these online threats and attacks sometimes translate into physical acts, such as the killing of parliamentarian jo cox in 2016. in extreme cases, as shown by a unesco study on journalists, these attacks are accompanied by a rise in viral disinformation and through digital conspiracy networks. online violence can be part of an orchestrated campaign or can come from individuals sharing the same – often misogynist or racist – prejudices. in barring women from participating in public life and in spreading gender misinformation, these attacks are attacks on our fundamental values. democracy and freedom of expression are the main pillars of the pluralist societies the eu stands for. when women are not fully represented in positions of power, we are faced with a serious democratic deficit. online hate and violence can have a chilling effect on women’s participation in our democracies. we must ensure that women and groups who can be marginalised as victims of online violence are safe to raise their voices in public debates without fear of being attacked and discredited. the commission is strongly committed to ending online abuse in all of its forms. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. first of all, i would like to emphasize that unfortunately, most of the violence we have to deal with against women politicians is from men. and that's certainly something i'm very ashamed of and i'd like to apologize for. i would like to appeal to all colleagues to show solidarity in this matter. the statistics are clear, 80% of female politicians worldwide experience online violence, 45% receive death threats. from hate speech on the internet to direct physical aggression, unfortunately, the path is very short. jo cox has experienced this, and it is a shame that in the 21st century the european union does not have the right legislation to protect women, including politicians, from this kind of online violence. we have to change that.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. stress, anxiety, panic attacks, low self-esteem, reduced online activity, and even withdrawal from the debate altogether. fear that online threats will be carried out. research shows that this is what women who are exposed to cyberbullying experience. yes, cyberbullying can happen to anyone, but it is women, including politicians, businesswomen, activists, journalists, who see the nasty comments online that affect their appearance, their private and intimate lives, that undermine their competence and intellectual capacity, that pose threats of sexual violence, including rape. the scale of online violence against women is growing, and the european union still lacks legislation to combat it. in the autumn, parliament will send the commission a proposal for a legislative initiative. but will it make a difference? we are not going to be able to do that. because we are about to celebrate two years of the new european commission, and the commission has done nothing concrete about violence against women.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. the significance of online abuse is a very urgent, very important and huge problem that we all face today, because in the age of the development of the digital space, in the age of the development of modern technologies and their limitless possibilities, unfortunately, today there is a very dangerous and still illegal, dark side of power. it is true that women are more often and more brutally affected by this dramatic problem, because all violence, including online violence, against women is both a cause and a consequence of, among other things, many of the stereotypes and differences in the treatment of women and men that still exist. unfortunately, the silent acceptance of hate, cyberbullying and misinformation, the impunity of users and the lack of immediate consequences, the lack of response and the real responsibility of copyright owners towards the perpetrators in the unlimited online space of the digital world, is a tacit acceptance of reality, even though on the internet none of us is anonymous. this fight against cybercrime is uneven today, and enforcement is unfortunately a pure abstraction. so enough of this tacit acceptance of a space where aggression and hatred are prevalent, and where freedom of speech in public opinion is often distorted, with a special power of permission when it comes to public figures. it is time to end the tolerance for intimidation, harassment, violation of personal property and insult, assault on human dignity, ridicule, defamation and vulgarity that, through the power of digital social impact, have already led to so many human tragedies and tragedies. with one caveat: the counteraction must not lead to a restriction of rights.
mr. chairman, please! the virtual world has become an integral part of our lives. the considerable benefits of the internet cannot overshadow the risks that its users, often us women in politics, are exposed to. there are many ways to abuse someone online. the hype is everywhere, especially towards us. posting illegal and harmful content that often violates the law and negatively affects the recipient. cyberbullying, criminal threats, incitement to terrorism, the monstrous heist i've already mentioned, child pornography are all things that need to be stigmatized and fought against. the key to this should be effective cooperation between online platforms and law enforcement and our solidarity in fighting this regardless of the political colours we represent. however, it should be borne in mind that activities relevant to network security should not restrict the activities of internet users and should not jeopardise their fundamental values, freedoms and rights.
mr. chairman, please! indeed, the internet and social media offer invaluable benefits, but they also pose risks. today, we have to tell ourselves that hate is primarily brutal, ruthless violence online. one group that is vulnerable to such violence is women in public office. i'm not complaining, i was the target of such powerful attacks in poland and i'm coping with it, my mp's office was also burned down as a result of such a heist, but i'm coping with it. i'm proving day after day that no one is anonymous on the web. it's just that this kind of action and lack of response is causing fewer and fewer women to choose to be in politics, and there should be more and more of us. the statistics are inexorable, women are heads of state or government in only about 20 countries. women are paid less. all of this combined makes this situation actually weaker. and that's why we have to fight it, and the examples of fighting that have come out of this room today are absolutely right and absolutely necessary. last word, mr. chairman, i'm proud of these women who are dealing with the heat and are in politics.
madam president! given the current legal situation on animal welfare and the level of agricultural development in the european union, the european parliament's resolution on the 'end the cage age' citizens' initiative is, in my view, unnecessary in the current situation. first, the claim that cages are the cause of suffering for a huge number of livestock is not supported by evidence, it is not applicable to the current situation in the european union agriculture. secondly, animals currently kept by farmers in the european union are kept in cages that comply with all animal welfare regulations. these animals do not suffer, but rather, the farmers reward them with high productivity and healthy production. third, the prohibition of inhuman treatment of animals has been established for years by welfare laws in the member states of the european union. fourth, a professional assessment of the scale of the problem is necessary. only after the results of the inspections, which the commission is due to present in 2023, can there be a serious discussion about animal welfare and the 'end the cage age' initiative.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 25 september 2018 i had the privilege and honour of hosting the launch of this european citizens' initiative at the european parliament. just over two and a half years after "end the cage age", it is the sixth most successful ice in the history of this tool, having collected 1.4 million signatures across europe, has the support of 140 internationally renowned scientists and has already inspired many companies to become cage free. but now it is time to make this initiative a reality. i therefore ask you to support this resolution and the amendments which further reinforce the urgency and ambition to send a strong and unmistakable signal to the european commission. we want a cage-free europe by 2027 and a european market free of imports of products made to lower animal welfare standards than ours. we are liberating the more than 300 million animals that are forced into cage farming every year in unspeakable conditions from the cruelty of cage farming. we are showing that we have learned the lesson of the pandemic that has exposed us to the link between intensive farming practices and the emergence of new zoonotic diseases. but above all, we are showing humanity and indignation at a barbarity which no longer makes sense in a europe which calls itself civilised.
madam president, greetings from warsaw. i want to share with you that i am very happy that i worked on this instrument, the european citizens’ initiative, a few years ago. now we can see the results. citizens use this instrument for good reasons, and i am really grateful to them. now it’s our turn. we must seriously listen to those citizens, because very often i have the impression that our favourite slogan ‘proximity to the citizen’ is an empty one. now, the outcry of the citizens is extremely clear: finish and end the ordeal of animals, finish and end the destruction of soils, and stop the destruction of our health as consumers. today, in the 21st century, civilisation is often assessed in accordance with how we respect the environment, and in accordance with how the civilisation respects all beings. we, europeans pretend to be a highly civilised continent, with highly civilised societies, and now we have a chance to prove it. otherwise, i tell you, if hell exists, we will be transported there in conditions similar to the conditions in which we transport our caged animals, and we will be treated there, in hell as we treat our caged animals. that’s what we have earned.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the end of cage farming will be a key step in our reconciliation with the living. it will also be a strong marker for a non-concentrationist, more sustainable, more humane, more citizen-centred agriculture. recent research on animal welfare shows that the use of cages is indeed becoming obsolete. it causes unnecessary suffering when alternatives exist. by gathering 1.4 million signatures across the european union, citizens inspired this resolution. thank them and them. the european commission must now legislate in favour of a ban by 2027 - which is a long way off - for all species, as has already been the case in organic farming for 40 years. it must also, through the cap, provide financial support for the transition to a rapid change towards animal welfare-friendly farming practices. for the sake of consistency at the frontiers and to protect our farmers, it will also have to ensure that animal products imported into our country also strictly respect this ban.
madam president, madam commissioner, any direct initiative by the citizens of the european union must be welcomed by the european parliament, but also taken very seriously by the other institutions of the union. the end of cage farming is indeed, in my view, crucial. not only because this european people's initiative has received record support, but also because it can be seen as a demonstration that the elements of direct democracy work at european level. the continuation of the current animal husbandry regime is incompatible with the values on which the european union is founded. we can't pretend we don't know about the unacceptable treatment of animals. the resolution is, in my view, balanced, calling on the commission to investigate the practice of cage-keeping thoroughly. it is not just the living conditions of animals that are at stake, but also veterinary regulations, customs, trade agreements and so on. there is no doubt that the adjustments will have an impact on the livestock economy, but with a well-designed system we can also significantly reduce the negative aspects of the cage ban. there are also certain specificities of each animal species, for example, rabbits tolerate cages much better, but they should certainly be enriched. for all these reasons, i think that change is necessary and i support the resolution on the ban on cage-breeding as balanced.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. can some of you remember the stable you were in as a baby for a few months of your life? the size of such a stable is about ten times the size of the space where some animals are kept for their entire lives. we humans, who call ourselves the crown of creation, torture fellow sentient creatures in this way. to do what? to get cheap meat that is additionally contaminated with antibiotics and thus damages our health? what purpose? to pretend to eat better or to show off how well-off we are? we all know by now that industrial farming is a major contributor to animal suffering and to damage to our health and the climate. and this is despite the fact that there are good alternative methods. so we cannot continue to cage-farm for profit. stop it now! right now! this is the 21st century. so dare to take the will of the people seriously, where more than a million people have spoken out against this torture!
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the honourable members for a very constructive debate on the resolution on the end the cage age initiative. i think it further demonstrates the importance that the european union attaches to citizens’ calls for action in the area of animal welfare, and, in a mature democracy like ours, we need to respect and respond to these calls. the resolution highlights your supportive approach to this initiative’s aims. at the same time, it provides us with a very clear view of many of the aspects that we need to bear in mind when phasing out cages. this reform would affect the entire food system from farm to fork, but it would also affect those involved in it, from farmers to consumers. we must certainly pay proper attention to their needs and address their concerns. i heard the many points raised regarding imports, and we will look at the application of the same standards to imported products as well as labelling in compliance with wto rules to satisfy citizens’ demands for higher welfare for animal products from any origin. i note that your resolution includes a call for the commission to propose a revision of council directive 98/58/ec that would phase out the use of cages in eu animal farming, and it also calls for actions to achieve a fair transition for our farmers and, of course, for our animals. in ending, i would like to reassure you that we will consider today’s resolution very carefully when preparing the communication on the end the cage age initiative and in the impact assessment which will underpin our future proposal to revise the animal-welfare legislation.
in writing. i would like to congratulate all citizens who have signed up to the european legislative initiative end the cage age. i also thank those who have recently come to us in large numbers to support this project and the ban on caged animals in the european union. i believe that the welfare of animals and their proper treatment is the duty of every human being. the industrialisation of livestock farming and the desire of farmers to obtain the greatest possible benefits in the shortest possible time have led to a significant deterioration in the situation of farm animals. live animals on cage farms are most often treated as intermediate products for food production. they forget that they are sentient beings who think and feel as we do fear and pain. with this in mind, i am pleased that we want to commit the european commission to preparing legislation that will while providing the necessary financial support to farmers lead to the phasing out of cage farming in the eu by 2027. i also regard as an important amendment the call by the european commission to ban the compulsory fattening of ducks and geese for foie gras in the union. it's time to end this cruel and unnecessary act!
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: euranet plus is a unique source of information on european union affairs for more than 15 million listeners. for almost 15 years, euranet plus, as an independent pan-european network of local and regional public service radio stations, has been successfully bridging the information gap between the european union and its citizens. it also enhances understanding and promotes debate on all areas of european union policy-making in as many as 12 european languages. unfortunately, the future of the euranet plus network is at stake. the new financing model proposed by the european commission, based on annual open calls for tender with limited duration and no transitional period, is a major challenge. it prevents euranet plus from drawing up a long-term development plan for the digital switchover and from investing in further improvement of the services. in addition, this financing model leaves it without any stability and predictability, while forcing it to invest significant resources in the preparation of these annual tender offers. if the commission continues to insist on this course of action, it may unfortunately lead to the closure of the euranet plus network and the dismissal of its staff. the resolution also calls on the commission to ensure that the european union's radio broadcasting sector is given a permanent support. we need to seek to ensure continuity of funding not only in 2021 but also in the longer term so that the euranet plus network can continue to function and develop.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the european commission intends to terminate the current direct grant agreement for euranet plus and replace it with an annual call for proposals. the information about the possibility of terminating the project's funding is surprising, as it concerns a medium that has been operating for fifteen years and which can be successfully used to develop communications in the european union. euranet plus is a pan-european radio network of exceptional character, allowing cooperation between radio broadcasters, both public and private, from a dozen or so eu countries. the polish public radio is also involved in the project. the media project thus structured has great potential to make a real contribution to a better mutual knowledge and understanding among europeans. its advantages are both to provide a media message to inform people about the functioning of the european union and to enable journalists from different countries to work together. the closure of the project will mean the loss of another asset, namely the interest of journalists in european issues and the expansion of their knowledge on these issues. i call on the commission to continue to finance radio on a multiannual basis, as this is the only way to ensure the stability and independence of the media.
madam president, today i drove to work for two hours across slovenia and listened to radio slovenia international. this radio is part of the euranet family and has been running very successfully for 25 years with excellent programming. that is why i was all the more disappointed by the european commission's decision to withdraw its financial support for this network, a network of radio stations in 13 countries which informs 15 million europeans every day about the work of the european institutions and which is also, in a way, a link between the institutions of the european union and the citizens of the european union. that's why i think it's important that this network lives on. but above all, i would like to see a kind of equal treatment for another media outlet that is also funded by the european union, euro news. this is a discriminatory attitude on the part of the european commission towards the radio network, and i think it would be right to allow the euranet radio network a transitional period to prepare it for operation in the normal market. the fact is that european citizens need this network and i want it to continue after it has been restructured.
madam president, we often speak about the need to improve the level of information about eu affairs as a key solution in reinforcing the european union, developing european democracy, and fighting misinformation. there is general broad political agreement and support for all mechanisms designed to bring people closer to eu affairs and generate stronger interaction with eu citizens. we need to do more in order for european citizens to be better informed about europe, and working with media institutions and independent journalists is key in this regard. this is a case for euranet, a network of radios across europe that for years have done a great job in promoting the european union. we, the european parliament’s committee on culture and education, will always support those that do the day-to-day job in speaking about europe in a professional, transparent and independent manner. this is why we express our continuous support for euranet and the need to provide adequate financial support to the network in the years to come. despite this fact, some decision makers are ignoring this need, being more concerned about bureaucracy and promoting a neoliberal agenda instead of making the right decisions for european interests. unfortunately, there are also governments that are happy to see what is happening at european level and are using this example to cut funds, and even politicise national radios. over the last 15 years, the pan-european radio network euranet plus has successfully contributed through its members across europe to bridge the information gap between the eu and its citizens by strengthening and, at the same time, promoting the debate in all fields related to european policy-making. so we are asking the commission to come up with solutions, to tell us whether they will offer traditional financial support in the years to come, and to find a way to support this instrument. radios have proven to be a key instrument for communication with citizens about eu affairs, so support euranet, support european radio stations.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the euranet plus radio network is a unique network of radio stations in the european union. it covers events in europe from a transnational perspective. it is composed of a number of public and private broadcasters from the member states. since its establishment, its operational activities have been financed mainly by union funds. direct support is now to replace the annual grant effort. we can't agree to that. the grant funding model proposed by the commission does not allow for strategic planning and development of the network. we therefore call on the commission to renew the current core funding for euranet plus. but beware, the long-term development plan of the network must take into account that some of its members, even if they call themselves public broadcasters, have long ceased to be. they have instead become the propaganda vessels of their governments, which disinformation and discourage citizens from the european project. polish radio or hungarian mr no longer have a public mission. they're on a party mission. should eu funds support such broadcasters? i certainly don't. therefore, while fully appreciating the aims and work of the network, i would like to emphasize this strongly: the eu's support is due to independent and reliable media, not to regimes that are scaling up the european union.
in writing. we are witnessing dramatic events taking place on the border between spain and the kingdom of morocco, which is part of the european union. it is unacceptable to exploit children or minors in any crisis situation, and this is what happened during the raid by illegal immigrants on the spanish city of ceuta. we should not hide the reasons for this situation in the text of the resolution. to hide the fact that someone had promised these people a real paradise in the territory of the european union. allowing tens of thousands of illegal immigrants to storm spanish territory, including so many children and minors, is a form of blackmail. these children should not be separated from their parents, they should be raised in peace by families in the country where they were born, and not be treated as instruments and forced to separate from their families and to emigrate. allowing such a large number of migrants, including some 1200 minors, to storm into spanish territory is extremely irresponsible, dangerous and provocative, contrary to the good neighbourly relations that the eu has been trying to maintain with the kingdom of morocco for years. these events show us how much the european union's migration policy needs to be radically changed to prevent such situations in the future. to avoid sending conflicting signals, but to consistently implement the programme that has worked well in the world: zero tolerance for illegal immigrants, also within the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i also call for a realistic assessment of putin's policy, to get away from the naivete and myths about big economic deals that are beneficial for europe, such as nord stream 2. we were naive in yeltsin's time to expect russia to go down the path of transforming central europe, naive in medvedev's time to say technocrats. today we assume that dialogue and intensive cooperation will change russia, that we will impose european standards. let's finally understand that putin does not accept the post-cold war transformation and democratic processes. so, while not giving up on sanctions, we must reach out to other russian elites, the younger educated generation, including the ngos, who have not acquired soviet imperial habits. this is a race against putin. whether we get to that russian society, whether putin catches them, eliminates through the use of a recruit or a labor camp, any potential leaders of democratic change. let's not let the newcomer kill the civil society in russia before it is born.
madam president! in six days in geneva, i hope president biden will remember civil society in russia as equally powerful as he has denied his country's policy on nord stream. we have an interesting situation in russia, because the scale of the demonstrations in that country - and not just in the biggest cities, but also in the smaller cities, cities where there have never been any political demonstrations - is huge. maybe this middle class in russia has this sense of a certain ceiling. that with putin, whom you will send geuking, but the russians vote for, he is the leader of russia, so it is not necessary to say that this is something completely different from russia, that this middle class has had enough of putin. there is a power struggle within the political class in russia. it's obvious. but our primary concern should be to support civil society and independent media, all those who raise the flag of freedom in this country.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, civil society is not just ngos, it includes trade unions, employers' organizations, social and professional organizations, religious and philosophical and non-confessional organizations, universities and also the academic world, that part of society which represents the vitality of a people and which must therefore be protected at all costs. with the undesirable organizations act, russian authorities have assumed almost total control over civil society, preventing it from reaching its full potential. while the new restrictions on free speech seem to target so-called foreign agents, they actually affect the entire russian people, denying a voice to anyone who is dissatisfied or critical of the government's decisions or actions. they are not a sign of strength but a sign of great weakness. as we are reminded of the great words of liu xiaobo, chinese nobel peace prize winner: "freedom of expression is the basis of human rights. suppressing free speech is an insult to human rights, stifling human nature is a suppression of truth. "we must strongly urge the russian authorities to reverse this trend and to align themselves with international human rights standards. it is not the west that is your people's worst enemy, but the very choices you continue to make that, sooner or later, will backfire on you.
madam president! is it any wonder the russian regime is targeting ngos? no, not at all! all totalitarian regimes and autocracies see civil society as the enemy. dictators always reduce the citizen to a pawn blindly following orders. the salami tactic. first, cutting off funding to ngos, stigmatizing, pushing them out of the public sphere, sometimes through orwell's reality institution, the national institutes of freedom, harassing activists with lawsuits. this is already a reality in hungary and poland. and then there's what's happening in russia: banning ngos, arrests, the wild east. and the last example is andrei pivowarov from open russia. we need to press russia to release him and the other activists. we have several tools, including the council of europe instruments and economic instruments. and we have to take care of our own backyard on the danube, on the vistula. otherwise, our credibility will be just a word.
mr. chairman, please! autism spectrum disorders are among the most common developmental problems. scientific studies show that this affects about 1 percent of the population. autism is diagnosed four times more often in boys than in girls, and there are 5 million people in europe with autism spectrum disorders. this shows how serious the problem is, how important it is, how it requires systemic solutions both in national policies and in the eu's strategies, those strategies on disability. people with autism have serious difficulties in the workplace, in education, in training, in further training, in health care, and so on. because deficits in social skills are a key area of difficulty, people with autism experience profound loneliness and rejection, they have negative experiences with social environments, they are excluded from the job market -- we've talked a lot about this. but we also know that there is no one model of support for people on the autism spectrum, and that support must be directed to those people and their families as well. we need to see this deep inner difference in people with autism. comprehensive support is not possible without this differentiation, this differentiation of their problems and needs, it must be highly individualized. we need to share best practices, experiences, and the main tasks that we as politicians are committing to are diagnosis, early diagnosis, health care, rehabilitation, expert counseling, help offered through education, social support, employment, support for adults with autism. we certainly need to develop effective support systems that are comprehensive and that take into account individuality.
mr. speaker, the house! i bow to the courage of parents who go to great lengths to raise their children with autism. more and more member states are recognising the need for comprehensive assistance to these people. in april of this year, the polish parliament adopted a resolution on supporting and equalising opportunities for people on the autism spectrum, stating that every person on the spectrum should be able to function in adulthood in a dignified and, if possible, independent manner. good inclusive education, equal opportunities in the labour market and a modern care and support system must be provided. the european union must prove that it is capable of helping the millions of people affected by autism. long-term financial support instruments are needed for organisations that provide a friendly environment for families raising children with autism. this support is needed at every stage of a person's life on the autism spectrum. we should increase investment in autism research and related training and services. this will help to better understand the causes of autism and to identify the most effective forms of support intervention. furthermore, simplifying access to behavioural therapy will be a huge relief for families, especially those living in rural areas. and it's a very important fact, and i'm very excited about it, that the idea of helping people on the autism spectrum is bringing people together across all political divides. that was the case in the polish sejm and i hope it will be the case in our common european parliament. and i want to end by saying very strongly, especially in this room, that people with autism are a gift from god. they are fully part of this world, of our community. we owe them our respect and our help.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the breakdown of the negotiations on the institutional framework agreement is certainly not good news. this is bad news for the european single market and it is also bad news for the friendship and partnership between switzerland and its neighbours, which are so good. the swiss, and the neighbouring countries in particular, have benefited so much from the strong integration into the european single market, and this is why the break is all the more bitter. and i think it's important to say one truth here, openly and clearly: when you have right-wing populists in government, you lose your ability to act in foreign policy. we saw this in britain. we see this in different countries around the world. and we just saw this in switzerland. in the end, new demands are made publicly and sharply until it is no longer possible to reach an agreement with international partners, and this is the reason for the failure of this agreement. however, the eu must also ask itself why it has set such stringent requirements in the field of the labour market. the social rules in the european single market are certainly not exemplary. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take part in the negotiations on the gatt and the gatt agreement, and that the european union is able to take part in the negotiations on the gatt. what do you want? our door is open.
the original ideal of cooperation in europe was free trade. free trade, because all member states benefit from it. but the eu has grown and sees itself not just as a market but also as a community of 'values'. so the eu is increasingly using trade talks to impose its own rules. you want to trade? then comply with the open borders policy. you want to trade? then open your welfare state to everyone. you want to trade? then you will be subjected to eu judges. the swiss are opposed to these imperialist tendencies of the european commission. that's why i say to the swiss: your resistance is commendable. they defend the original european ideal, the ideal of free trade. thank you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. you have given a very good account of the bilateral trade figures. but this also means that there are about 1.5 million eu citizens living in switzerland and 400 000 swiss citizens living in the eu. i would therefore like to stress once again for our group, the left, that we must agree with switzerland on a set of rules which puts these people at the centre. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. we think an agreement is important. but there are always two to a quarrel. the commission's plan to use switzerland's access to eu financial markets as a leverage has not been successful. and in the swiss parliament, the far-right people's party was the only group to celebrate the failure of the negotiations last week. "come to reason!" one would like to call the quarrelsome. that's what i'm doing with this, working with the unions. resume negotiations, including for the successful joint overcoming of the corona pandemic. because a solution to the dispute with switzerland is clearly in the interests of the people of the eu and switzerland.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the unilateral decision of the swiss federal council to end the negotiations on the institutional framework agreement is deeply regrettable. our trade relationship is based on a 50-year-old free trade agreement and a mikado game of bilateral agreements which are no longer up to date. this agreement would have provided the basis for the much needed modernisation. the eu is switzerland's most important trading partner, and goods worth one billion swiss francs are traded between us every day. nor will closer trade relations between switzerland and the usa and the uk be able to compensate for our ageing trade relationship with the eu. the level playing field is certainly not too much to ask of a partner which, of all the eu and efta countries, has the highest per capita benefit from access to the common market. the eu has not closed the door. it is to remain open for further negotiation and our offer is quite clear. to conclude, mr president, let me state clearly, i sign for a real fair, equal game tonight and uefa definitely scored a big own goal.
mr president, the federal government’s decision to terminate the negotiations on the eu—swiss framework agreement is an unfortunate blow to our mutual relations. instead of a modern, comprehensive agreement, we remain with a large number of old and sometimes obsolete bilateral agreements. in terms of trade and cooperation, we will remain key partners but this decision may erode the functioning of the single market from which both sides highly benefit. already we see that the lack of a mutual recognition agreement negatively influenced the medical devices sector, and we can expect future problems in the machinery, agriculture and energy sectors. however, even if returning to business as usual is not possible, both sides must engage and rearrange existing agreements to limit the negative consequences of no—deal to companies and citizens caught in between. we should also call on the federal government of switzerland to rethink its approach to our mutual relations, as more can be achieved by a continued conversation than by leaving the negotiation table.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. cohesion policy is one of the fundamental policies implemented under the multiannual financial framework. its aim is to ensure economic, social and territorial cohesion at union, regional and national level. the appropriations provided for it shall constitute one third of the budget of the union. i welcome the proposed improvements to the management and financing rules of the funds. i am, however, against the introduction of compulsory appropriation in the common rules. the absurd target of climate neutrality by 2050 is imposed. absurd, since the union is responsible for only 9% of global co2 emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels and at the same time an obligation is imposed to use 30% of the union budget for this purpose, and in the case of the cohesion fund even 37%. this unjustifiably restricts the freedom of member states to define their own socioeconomic strategies which will meet their individual needs and allow them to pursue the stated objective in their own way.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the cohesion policy package is the culmination of work since may 2018 and the expectation of all member states, regions and people across europe. it was not an easy process because of brexit and the difficult budget negotiations, and then the shock of the covid-19 pandemic. the commissioner and all the parties involved should be thanked for the compromise reached. poland, under the leadership of prime minister mateusz morawiecki, as one of the biggest beneficiaries of cohesion policy, has had a huge negotiating success: over €72 billion and almost €4 billion from the just transition fund. i am very pleased to note that many of the polish requests were accepted, such as increasing the flexibility of the use of funds and levels of co-financing and extending support to investments in the gas sector, railway rolling stock and broadband infrastructure. my country is finalising preparations to use this huge flow of investment funds: 9 national programmes, 16 regional programmes and support for 6 regions, including greater poland with the largest eu budget for energy transition. and the government's new polish order programme worth pln 1 trillion over the next seven years is a response to the competitive challenges of europe and the world. it's the investment, economic and social development of poland.
in writing. cohesion policy is an important instrument of the european union to bridge the civilizational gaps caused by the predatory policies of communist regimes. i'm glad that part of that protective umbrella is the just transformation mechanism. this is a significant aid for the polish mining regions, which will bear the greatest costs of the energy-economic transformation. however, it should be borne in mind that cohesion funds will not solve all problems. it is with great concern that i have been watching the radicalization of political attitudes about the pace and extent of climate change. extending the ets to road transport and construction, phasing out fossil fuels, rumours of a ban on combustion engines after 2035 - these are not ambitious goals but risky ideas that could lead to a socio-economic crisis that will hit the poorest countries of the european union hardest. then cohesion policy will not help. that's why i'm urging caution and prudence. we all agree that we need to protect the climate, but let's do it in a rational and realistic way.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. you're talking about the rule of law. what is the rule of law? the rule of law is first and foremost the observance of the law by which you act and have jurisdiction. so if you are prohibiting certain countries from acting in the area of family law, culture, identity, as the citizens of those countries decide, i would like to ask you: what do you think article 5 of the treaty means, for example, which says that, according to the principle of conferral, the union acts only within the limits of the competences conferred on it by the member states? any competence not conferred on the european union shall be conferred on the member states. that's it. culture, family law, the organisation of the judiciary were never handed over to the european union. in addition, article 3 states that the european union respects its rich cultural diversity. article 4: the union shall also respect the equality of member states before the treaties and their national identities. so i ask you, what do you think that means? that poles can't choose how they want? you guys got the era wrong, don't you? you're all dreaming of some kind of colonisation again. you talk about respect and tolerance all the time, and you don't give a damn. you don't respect or tolerate any opinion other than your own. you talk about democracy, but you can't respect the outcome of democratic elections. you say that killing unborn children is a human right. nowhere does it say that, it's your own shameless manipulation. you have a lot of half-phobia, a lot of christianophobia, and a lot of hyperinflation of pride and arrogance. we know your belief in the need for a cultural camp from history, and i want to tell you that we do not agree with this, because we know what it has led to: the worst period in european history. and we can't let that happen today. europe must be strong in its diversity and tolerate countries with a more conservative profile.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you something. those who sleep in a democracy wake up under the hands of a dictator. because respect for human rights is the alpha and omega of our system, and if we don't defend them, if we don't defend an independent judiciary, an independent media, freedom of speech, we're going to end up in this dictatorship very soon. this is why this report on the rule of law in european countries is important. we're not winning this fight anywhere. it's not one, two or three countries. they are all countries of the european union, and we all have an obligation as democratic politicians to uphold law and justice in our countries and democratic principles. and to be strong, we need god's help.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the debate we have just had on a new tool for the rule of law, the annual report, which will become a habit year after year and which aims above all to establish a culture of the rule of law throughout the european union. that is why the debate must not only take place here, it must take place in each of the institutions, but also in the national societies, the civil societies of each of the member states, as well as in the national parliaments. i would like to reassure you, in the light of comments on the situation, particularly on fundamental rights or specific situations, that the commission remains committed to using, as soon as necessary, all the tools at its disposal, including the other tools, in addition to what we have discussed today, such as infringement procedures, article 7 procedures or the conditionality mechanism in force since 1 january last, in order to provide an effective and proportionate response to any breach of the rule of law within the union. the commission also remains fully committed to an interinstitutional dialogue on the rule of law and looks forward to further exchanges with parliament on the annual rule of law report. the next one, as i announced, will be published in july. and i repeat that i am at your disposal to discuss the next report and, especially, if you wish, the national chapters. this was not possible after the first report, but if you wish to change your mind and consider a discussion on the 27 national chapters, i am at your disposal to go back to the specific or more systematic remarks we made in the first report and above all to go back to the replies which were or were not given by the member states and see what conclusions can be drawn from them. because, it is true, there may not be any formal recommendations in the report we have presented to you, but there are, nevertheless, very clear conclusions which indicate the way forward for the member states. so if you wish, we can return not only to the general debate but also to the debate on the individual chapters. of course, i also count on your support to continue the dialogue with national parliaments and civil society, both on national chapters and on the evolution of the rule of law across the union. i would like to thank you for your comments and for the way in which we will continue to work together.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place on thursday 24 june 2021. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. the european union is founded on principles and values. the striking difference of the european union - and we are proud of it - is that of all the countries of the world and of all the organisations, the eu upholds these principles and values and, moreover, the eu is founded on the principles of the rule of law. it is inconceivable and unacceptable that there should be a member state of the european union which violates these principles and values, because it is like abolishing the european union. the taxpayers of europe would never accept a single euro to be given to countries which violate the principles of the european union. but the principles of the european union are being violated not only within the european union but also outside it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not undermined by the fact that the european union is not able to provide the necessary financial support to the turkish authorities. turkey is itself the very definition of a violation of the principles and values of the european union, of european and international law. if we ask the european taxpayers whether there should be any funding in this country, turkey, the answer from the european citizens will be a resounding no.
in writing. in the european parliament, we are increasingly talking about the rule of law. what the european commission is doing with this report is breaking treaties and putting political pressure on inconvenient countries. the majority in this parliament even adopted a mechanism that is supposed to enforce the rule of law, but instead will be used politically to sanction countries that refuse to implement ultra-liberal leftist ideas in their societies. you, my colleagues from the majority, have trampled the eu treaties, you have trampled the rule of law, but you hypocritically attack the legitimately elected governments of poland and hungary on this issue. let's not forget that the dark communist regime also relied on a kind of "rule of law" and unhesitatingly imposed article 58, which included many points - from treason and anti-soviet propaganda to espionage and so on. similarly, you attack sovereign nation states for laws that are the exclusive competence of the member states and in no way violate the eu treaties or other international treaties. today you want to have a european kgb that persecutes 'disobedient' countries for defending their traditions, values and beliefs. we are against your bolshevik dictatorship, against the dictates of the brussels bureaucrats over our nation states! - thank you. - thank you.
in writing. we are used to the left-liberal mainstream using the concept of the rule of law to wage ideological warfare against those who disagree with them. one of the main tools for this was the annual rule of law report issued by the european commission, which was supposed to be an impartial assessment of member states. but what does this report actually mean? it is nothing more than a carefully constructed indictment of pseudo-civil organisations, which are a network of organisations at european level, which are controlled from abroad and which profess a left-liberal ideology. the findings of these biased pseudo-civil organizations are used in the report to reflect their views and then to assess the democratically elected governments of the member states. and what does the european parliament intend to do with this report? it wants to develop it further, according to its own logic, so that it can use legal and financial means to punish those member states which think differently. the text of the ep report contains blatant lies. it is no coincidence that hungary and poland are the targets of lies. we know the formula well: those who disagree with us would be punished: those who reject immigration, those who have different ideas about the future of europe, those who speak out against gender ideology. however, such politically biased and one-sided reports are not in the interest of europe. they only undermine the unity of the union and create fault lines between member states. i therefore categorically reject the ep report.
in writing. i agree with every point in the report prepared by mr domènec ruiz-devesa. the political pressure applied in hungary and poland to prevent national courts from initiating preliminary ruling proceedings before the court of justice of the european union under article 267 tfeu must be condemned. definitely and without compromises. the practice of preventing national judges from raising questions to the court of justice of the european union about the eu requirements on judicial independence is contrary to union law. failure to comply with the judgments of the ecj is legal banditry. this is no longer a white-gloved exit. it's hunexit and polexit in broad daylight. we have to stop this. everyone who cares about democracy, human rights. to the success of the european project. the commission must immediately take decisive action against the governments of poland and hungary. there's no time left. as a parliament, the democratic representation of the european vox populi, we have no doubt that this is necessary. in defence of the rights and freedoms of all citizens of the european union.
in writing. the commission's report is the first in a series of annual reports on the state of the rule of law in the union and the member states. it comprises four pillars: the judiciary, the anti-corruption framework, media pluralism and checks and balances. the anti-corruption policy is not the only one that raises concerns about poland. the rest of the range is, unfortunately, on the censored. the key concerns are the rule of law situation related to the attack on the judiciary and judicial independence. contrary to the repeated assurances of the polish government, in europe everyone knows the truth and is well aware of the purpose of the establishment of the disciplinary chamber or the appointment of judges-doublemakers to the constitutional court. the commission's call on the polish prime minister to withdraw the ecj's request to challenge the primacy of eu law and the effectiveness of the ecj's judgments did not come out of nowhere. the commission is well aware that the constitutional court has become a facade institution after being taken over by the ruling majority, and the people elected to fill the seats already filled are simply not judges. this is what the european court of human rights recently said (the xero flor case) and i don't want to be a bad prophet, but this judgment will have consequences. the strasbourg case law also sets the eu standard for the protection of fundamental rights, so if the polish constitutional court with its double judges in the near future challenges the primacy of eu law, then we will enter a dangerous path that could lead to polexit.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the €613 million loan obtained from a chinese institution for a coal-fired power station in tuzla, even though this industry is still heavily subsidised, also links bosnia and herzegovina to the new silk road promoted by beijing in defiance of european energy standards. but the most unacceptable is the security risk involved, on the one hand, in the repatriation of jihadists, of whom the balkans received the highest concentration in europe, and, on the other hand, in the migration crisis, particularly from pakistan, with the corollary of the infiltration of radical islam. while the european union is locked in enlargement in the balkans, in bosnia and herzegovina as elsewhere the lack of enthusiasm is evident. this can be seen from the attitude of the bosnian member of the country's tripartite presidency, who condemned france in the charlie hebdo affair and praised erdogan's contribution to stability in the region. the european union, which has provided €1.19 billion in pre-accession funds for bosnia and herzegovina alone, is thus not getting anything out of its investment in the region and an enlargement process that no longer has any place.
your honour, bosnia and herzegovina is a country of dysfunctional institutions. the general hopelessness could be used by the european parliament to show that there is someone who is listening and working to ensure that the will of all the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina is respected and fulfilled. but parliament is not able to do that because to listen to someone you have to first accept their existence. parliament refuses to accept the fact that bosnia and herzegovina is a tronational state, that it has three constituent peoples and thus denies the identity of those it should respect and listen to. if the parliament really cared about listening to the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina, instead of conducting social experiments on them, then you would know that they do not want any regional commission for war crimes, any rekom that is recommended here. the resolution completely ignores the dayton constitutional framework and the constituent nations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. who can believe this high house listens to its citizens if it doesn't listen to itself? and finally, if you really want bosnia and herzegovina in the european union then help it honestly, transparently, without a cent in your pocket.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, more than 25 years after the dayton agreements, the reality is before our eyes: while rejecting the inappropriate and potentially very dangerous considerations contained in the now famous non-paper that has recently circulated, we cannot hide behind a finger and accept this precarious status quo. without solutions shared by political authorities and civil society to draft a new constitution, which will replace that framework that is obsolete after 25 years and therefore totally anachronistic, it will be impossible to break the deadlock in which bosnia and herzegovina is. the eu is ready to support the implementation of the 14 priorities identified by the commission, but we must not presume to impose them, because dialogue and solutions are also and above all by facilitating them. i welcome very much the proposal by the executive board to welcome the western balkans finally to the conference on the future of europe, to renew that momentum and that promise of a european perspective which our partners have often not seen as firm and as determined as they should have. bosnia must be part of the great european family: we are not going to be able to do that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the european union charter of fundamental rights. the country must step up its efforts and mobilize all forces to initiate the difficult but necessary reforms in the administration, the rule of law, the fight against corruption and minority rights, to name just a few of the key areas. all parties and political actors must break away from divisive discourse and engage constructively - always with the primary objective of stabilising and strengthening bosnia and herzegovina. because one thing is clear: to secure peace in this country and to make the path to the eu, there must be stability. the eu, for its part, must give bosnia and herzegovina credible support in this respect. this includes the vehement rejection of any nationalistic aspirations and associated blockade positions within the european union and in our parliament.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the union must be committed to bosnia and herzegovina and the entire western balkans region and accelerate enlargement. the countries of the region want to join, and we want them to join. the western balkans cannot remain a vacuum in the heart of the eu, and it is in our clear geopolitical and security interests that the western balkan countries are integrated into europe. the region could lose its trust in the eu and thus open the way for other countries to influence it, unless we take concrete steps to speed up accessions. a positive political message should therefore be sent as soon as possible by granting bosnia and herzegovina the status of candidate country. the key issue is bosnia and herzegovina's position in the migration crisis and all assistance must be provided to stop illegal migration from happening outside the eu. the three ipa instruments are therefore welcome.
mr president, bosnia and herzegovina has unfortunately lost an entire decade in political battles that have only deepened the divisions. meanwhile, major political, economic and social reforms have been lacking. it's the result of a programmed bad inter-party relationship and a deliberate blocking of the institutions. bosnia and herzegovina is a country that has difficulty in communicating internally, so it does not speak a single language to the outside world. as time passes, the dysfunctional dayton order maintains the status quo allowing political elites ever greater control over dwindling economic resources. it's clear that these veto groups have no interest in making the institutions functional. reforms are made, above all, for the good of their countries; not just for future membership in the european union, but for long-term political stability, security and economic development. otherwise, pessimism and the exodus of young people will increase. it is not yet seen how to replace the outdated dayton system with a system more suited to a complex community that will be more effectively linked to its own differences. in this context, constitutional reforms and electoral reform are crucial to the european perspective. bosnia and herzegovina should be a functioning state of its constituent peoples and all citizens based on the principles of federalism, subsidiarity and legitimate representation. i would also like to look at recent non-papers because they have once again presented the ambitions of disinformation actors and shown why we need to be more active in supporting our neighbourhood on the european path. namely, they are offered alternatives that have no regard for the rule of law and our value system. they offer them a past that some are still unable to escape from anyway.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the conference on the future of europe provides an important opportunity for eu citizens to express the kind of europe they want to live in. however, the future of the eu cannot be separated from its immediate surroundings, in particular the western balkans. it is well known that there is no consensus among the member states on the speed of enlargement, but i do not think it should be a matter of debate whether the candidate countries should be included in the conference on the future of europe. this was the subject of the initiative launched by hungary, poland, the czech republic, slovakia and austria in the council, calling for the involvement of the western balkan countries. the future of europe is not just about the current eu member states, but also about countries such as bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and montenegro. what assurance does the eu give these countries about the sincerity of their enlargement intentions if they are not invited to even one conference? so i'm asking the conference leadership not to pass up an opportunity to make such an offer.
madam president, i would like to begin by emphasising that this report shows the european parliament's support for bosnia and herzegovina's european path. it is clear to all, however, that deep reforms are needed to achieve the candidate status that bosnia and herzegovina is seeking. but it expects the european union to be available, to be supportive, to be understanding, and especially to facilitate internal dialogue. in this context, i would also like to mention one item which is extremely important for me and my country, for the croats in bosnia and herzegovina, and which is not yet included in the text of the report. it is important that all three constituent peoples are equal, especially the croats as the smallest constituent people, and that in the process of agreement between the internal political parties and institutions of bosnia and herzegovina, a consensus is reached on the reform of the electoral legislation. unfortunately, i could not support this report in the committee vote because the text never mentioned the term "constituent people" in the entire document. it's the foundation, and we can't go on without it. that is why we have tabled amendments to bring the mention of the constituent peoples back into the report and i will strongly support those amendments in our vote, as i urge you to do.
member of the commission. – mr president, our discussion today demonstrates that 2021 is a crucial year for the european prospects of bosnia and herzegovina. it needs to be the year for reforms to address the 14 key priorities in our opinion. changes are necessary to ensure that the institutional framework of bosnia and herzegovina fits with eu standards. these are challenging tasks, but bosnia and herzegovina is not alone. the european union will continue to facilitate and contribute to these discussions in the country towards this goal. we want to see bosnia and herzegovina advance to the eu and advance at a steady speed. thank you very much for the very constructive and forward-looking discussion.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by thanking you for this constructive debate and also express my thanks once again to the rapporteur, mr paulo rangel, for his hard work. as i have already said, the council will continue to support bosnia-herzegovina and the western balkan partners more generally alongside the commission in their european path. the pandemic has highlighted the importance and value of standing together and responding together to common challenges. we remain committed to continuing the current efforts of coordination and cooperation. however, it is essential that the countries themselves make progress in their reforms. we therefore encourage bosnia-herzegovina and its political leaders, all its political leaders, to focus on implementing reforms that will improve the lives of its citizens and move the country forward on the path to european union membership. regardless of other decisions that may be taken, i would like to make it clear that the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina can already participate with their ideas or the events they will organize on the digital platform that is one of the pillars of the conference on the future of europe, and it is very good and important that they participate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 24 june 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. i am concerned about the recent attempts to destabilise the situation in the western balkans, especially in bosnia and herzegovina. any irresponsible suggestion to redraw the map of the balkans is a threat to stability, peace and integration with the european union. the potential disintegration of bosnia and herzegovina could have serious international consequences and become a factor in the strengthening of russian influence in the region. progress is needed in the implementation of the 14 priority areas for the accession process. political leaders in bosnia and herzegovina should demonstrate a willingness to improve the lives of their citizens and make genuine efforts towards reconciliation and overcoming the legacy of the past. the recent final judgment in the ratko mladić case is an important step towards ending the glorification of convicted war criminals and fully cooperating with international tribunals by respecting their decisions. while reforms in bosnia and herzegovina are needed, they must be implemented internally. the eu's task is not to impose a reform model. the accepted interpretation of the concept of 'component nations' used in the negotiation and signing of the dayton peace agreement should be respected, unless the three constituent ethnic groups in bosnia and herzegovina decide otherwise.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this report. health is the state of complete physical, mental and social well-being. it includes all the aspects that give us the power and means to live a full, active life and fulfil our potential. sexual and reproductive health is integral to our general health. sometimes sexual and reproductive health services are not considered as relevant or essential as other healthcare services. this is wrong. while healthcare, including sexual and reproductive healthcare, is a member state responsibility, the commission fully recognises every person’s fundamental right of access to healthcare as enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights and the pillar of social rights. and we are always ready to support our member states’ needs and actions here. gender inequalities can significantly affect sexual and reproductive health outcomes and undermine one’s sexual and reproductive health. cost, availability and, in some cases, stigmatisation hamper access to services, especially for young people. worse still, lack of access disproportionately affects particular groups of women and men. most of the actions in the report concern member states. however, in its gender equality strategy the commission states its intention to facilitate regular exchanges of good practice between member states and stakeholders on the gender aspects of health, including sexual and reproductive health and rights. high-quality sexual and reproductive health services are essential to both women and girls, as well as to men and boys. while often any reference to srhr is quickly linked to abortion and people who think so and say so are wrong because sexual and reproductive rights go well beyond it and cover issues such as contraception, education and preventive treatment of hiv and other sexually transmitted diseases, for instance, as well as fertility and sex-specific cancers. earlier this year in february i expressed my concern to you regarding recent pushbacks on women’s rights, especially their sexual and reproductive rights and the right to health in this respect. the eu has only complementary competence, as we all know, in public health matters, and member states are competent for the definition of their health policy. abortion legislation is therefore up to the member state concerned. when exercising their competences member states must respect the fundamental rights that bind them by virtue of their constitutions and commitments under international law. too often, sexuality, an integral part of human life, remains a taboo in our societies. we need to avoid the personal constraints it triggers. as you rightly point out in your report, this starts with all children and young people having the right to receive comprehensive and reliable information about sexuality and health-related rights. while it is the competence of the member states, i believe that comprehensive sexuality education brings benefits that go far beyond information on biological science, reproduction and health risks associated with sexuality. it can be a powerful means of promoting respect for diversity and human and fundamental rights. it can help combat gender stereotypes, violence and abuse against children and women, as well as discrimination. this will counter the current trend of primary and secondary school children who, in the void of formal education on the topic, watch pornography as their own form of sex education, which totally distorts the image of an intimate relationship. and i must say that this reality is frightening and its consequences really are wreaking havoc on the lives of these especially young people. so the report has a strong focus on gender-based violence, including female genital mutilation. in this context, next year we shall table a recommendation on the prevention of harmful practices. the recommendation also is expected to cover practices such as female genital mutilation and address better public services, prevention and support measures, capacity-building of professionals and victim-centred access to justice. at the root of many gender inequalities are stereotypical beliefs and opinions on how men and women should behave in society. the commission will launch an eu-wide communication campaign combating such gender stereotypes. it will tackle all spheres of life and focus on youth engagement in collaboration with member states. on top of the exchanges of good practice i mentioned earlier, the commission provides full support to member states’ efforts in implementing the united nations sustainable development goals relevant to women’s health, such as on universal access to sexual and reproductive care, family planning and education. the eu4health programme is our main financial tool, supporting national health policies and gender equality, as well as rights and equal opportunities for all. the mainstreaming of those objectives is taken into account and promoted throughout the assessment, preparation, implementation and monitoring of the eu4health programme. the newly approved eu4health annual work programme for 2021 includes several of your requests. others are expected to follow in future annual work programmes. grants worth eur 1.2 million will support actions to improve access to human papillomavirus vaccination, and we will also put eur 3.8 million into support for member states to roll out large-scale human papillomavirus vaccination campaigns. you also mentioned cancer screening. i can inform you that action grants worth eur 2 million will support accreditation and certification of quality assurance schemes for breast, colorectal and cervical cancer screening programmes. a further eur 2 million in action grants will be available for updating the european cancer information system to monitor and assess cancer screening programmes. the european commission is committed to improving the health of european citizens of course. this commitment extends to sexual and reproductive health, which is an integral and essential element of our overall health. (applause)
i would like to thank all the colleagues who have made this report possible, and especially my colleague fred matić for his excellent report, for his commitment, for his courage and for his commitment as a feminist man. we need many feminist men to advance our goal of gender equality and we are aware of the pressures and insults that have been received in this house. and those insults and those pressures and those threats give us more reasons than ever to keep working and not to allow women to be left behind in dark stages of history. women's health is not to be played with. banning sex education and the use of contraceptives will lead to an increase in unintended pregnancies. and banning abortions doesn't mean more children will be born. it means more women are going to die. women are going to die in clandestine abortions. they will find themselves in situations without economic resources where they are relegated to a second term. it is unacceptable that in the 21st century women are dying in europe and in the world because of this. last week we had to listen to some right-wing leaders say that this abortion thing is left-wing, that we want to eliminate what we have left over. it's a shame to hear this! a shame and a lack of respect for so many women who have been forced to have abortions because they could not cope with the situation they were forced into. let's have more respect for women. it is not worthy of any cause to harass parliamentarians with terrible images and false arguments. as socialists and democrats, we are fully committed to the freedom of women to choose about our motherhood, to choose about our bodies. i want to tell women that you are not alone. and to those who attack us, to free women, you will not bend us.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there is no equality between women and men without the right to universal, legal and safe abortion. there is no rule of law without full respect for reproductive and sexual rights, no human rights without the human right to abortion. without equality, the rule of law and human rights, there is no european union. the law is a living instrument and should serve to implement the eu's values, not as a convenient excuse for the european commission. when the polish women were deprived of their remaining legal abortion rights, we were told that this was not a matter for the union but for the member states. it was easier to say that than to look for solutions and take action. it is high time that all women across the union are guaranteed the fundamental right to decide about their own life, health and body. if the treaties need to be amended to do this, let us start talking about amending them.
mr president, sexual and reproductive rights are fundamental rights, they are human rights. this has been recognised by the european court of justice. and abortion is a human right, so delaying, denying or preventing it is a form of violence against women. that is why it is difficult to understand where the european people's party is going with this alternative resolution at the last minute. that place you're going to is already occupied by the far right. it's a place where women aren't allowed to make decisions, a place where decisions are forced on them. it is a place where women's rights are restricted, and ultimately restricted to everyone. that is why i ask you to come back with a majority in this parliament. the majority in parliament that recognizes the right of women to decide on their reproductive health, the right of women to decide on their bodies.
mr president, dear colleagues, i only have three things to say. no, you will not prevent abortions from happening by criminalising them. you will only force people into having unsafe and illegal abortion and thus endanger human life, period. yes, the right to decide about our own bodies and our own health is our absolutely fundamental human right, and especially for women and queer people who have been deprived of this right for centuries. it matters the world. we will defend it with all we have. and thirdly, the enemies of sexual and reproductive rights are not pro-life. they are only part of a movement trying to restrict our freedom to choose, trying to police our bodies, trying to get women and sexual minorities back into the captivity of authoritarian fundamentalists. we will not let that happen. vote in favour of the matić report.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, equality between men and women is a fundamental value of european civilization. in the face of the threat of islamism, the matić report could have provided an opportunity to reaffirm it without any polemic. unfortunately, that's not what he's doing. under the pretext of recalling that women have rights, it interferes with the competence of states by seeking to impose on them a questionable conception of the family, based on gender theory and the intersectional approach. without any respect for the right of each european nation to legislate freely on abortion, it leaves out the fundamental question of reconciling the right to life with women's freedom and promotes a right to abortion without limits. it even goes so far as to call into question the conscience clause which allows every doctor, in accordance with the hippocratic oath, to refuse to perform an abortion. it is rightly said that wisdom often comes with age, but i note with sadness that this is not the case for the european union, whose matić report shows that it is sinking into a radical militancy, which is sweeping away the problems of conscience and respect for nations.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i'm going to turn more to the women in this auditorium because i'm sad. i didn't have this speech prepared, but ladies, let's be proud that women can be mothers, it's a gift, it's a right. abortion is not a human right. it's a birthright. every man has the right to be born. it is a human right, general matici. i respect your opinion, but please, let's respect that the european parliament is not proposing to restrict member states in their health policy. the european parliament is not proposing to restrict member states from repealing laws allowing abortion. so why are we discussing this topic today? isn't this more like propaganda or a campaign? i'm terribly sorry, colleague, because my entire political career has been fighting for equality between women and men, so that women can equally apply themselves in professions, in careers, in politics. but i will always fight for the rights of mothers and children to be born. please respect the subsidiarity of decision-making in the member states and the right of women to have children.
mr. chairman, please! we are here in the european parliament to make life better for the citizens of the european union, to make life better for them in a community where they feel safe, where everyone has equal rights. unfortunately, that's not the case today. millions of girls are victims of violence simply because they do not receive a proper education. thousands of women in dangerous, illegal conditions are having abortions just because they don't have equal rights - like in my country, poland - because someone took them away. the right-wing fundamentalists say that we in the european parliament have no right to decide on this equality. even if that's the case - even if they're wrong - we're all about changing that, making sure that millions of citizens feel safe. and i have some bad news for you. women and girls in europe already know that they have equal rights and do not hesitate to use them. and we men will stand with them.
in writing. the ecr group has submitted a motion under rule 197 of the ep's rules of procedure calling for the report by mep matić on sexual and reproductive health and eu law in the context of women's health to be declared inadmissible. unfortunately, this proposal was not adopted by the ep. while it is a pity that we may disagree on specific issues of sexual and reproductive health, we should all agree on one fundamental principle: respect for the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the eu, which clearly states that these issues are outside the eu's competence and should be the responsibility of each member state (article 168 (7) tfeu). this has been confirmed several times by the commissioner for equality, helena dalli, during the debates in the european parliament so far. what's scary is that there's a debate going on in this institution about whether or not a child has a right to live. there's a lot of things that aren't being said in this discussion. instead of the right to kill children in the context of abortion, it's about access to medical services. on the one hand, left-wing and environmental activists are pushing for a ban on the killing of chicken embryos because they can feel pain, and on the other hand, the same activists are now demanding that the european parliament (in violation of eu treaties and international law) recognise the right to abortion as a human right.
in writing. respect for women and full respect for their rights is a matter of course for me, as much as respect for the rights of every human being, regardless of age, race or religion. the polish government stands on the side of gender equality, knowing the important role women play in our societies. the question is, in debating such a far-left report, are we caring and caring about women? do you consider abortion to be a procedure that has a positive effect on a woman's health? should the european parliament be instructing the community countries in this respect? according to the treaties, all competence in the field of the organisation of healthcare systems and in the field of education in the broad sense is vested in the member states alone. today we must fight for every life, because every human being, and that is without a doubt the child in the womb, deserves it. the report which points to access to safe and legal abortion as a method of family planning, which is the de facto killing of a defenseless unborn child, is a report of shame and all of you who voted for its adoption should be ashamed of yourselves!
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. let me be the voice of reason after these demonstrations. climate law is an important document. it's an important document because it tries to put our dreams, our desires, into a handful of rules. this is not the end of the beginning, this is just the beginning. these are thoughts, unfortunately, not yet honored, thoughts that we've had to spend a year and a half putting in order. we don't know yet how they're going to translate into directives, regulations. i would remind you that we had to recall the fundamental values that will determine whether we will implement climate law together - solidarity, european solidarity, shared responsibility, among others. just a few hours before the negotiations on zero emissions by 2050 were concluded, we were not talking at the european level, we were talking at the level of each member state. just like we didn't talk about absorbers, just like we didn't talk about net counting, which is important. and i think what peter liese said about the sinks, we should be concerned about, we should build a coalition, we should put a lot of work into the sinks, because it seems to be absolutely crucial when it comes to zero emissions. it's not art to shut everything down and destroy it, destroying people's lives, causing unemployment. the art of absorbing. and that's what we should be focusing on. commissioner, i want to remind you how the lawyers evaluated both climate law and the impact assessment. the legal services of the european parliament were ruthless, they said that there were no good calculations, that the algorithm was set as the commissioner wanted at 50%, but even such calculations showed that this financial security simply did not exist. without money, we can't pass climate legislation, and that's what we have in the multi-year financial framework or the reconstruction fund. they are simply not enough and they do not correspond to a just transformation. people are very important in this process. we protect water, forests and nature. yes, we must remember the man. i don't know if you know, but two weeks ago, a week and a half ago, switzerland voted on their climate law, too. the citizens said no. because it translated into a much higher cost of living. we have to be together, we have to be responsible, we have to be co-responsible and we have to be in solidarity. then we can implement climate law.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! european climate law provides the foundation for further climate policy and a good legal basis for achieving the european union's climate neutrality target by 2050. the draft is a balanced text that reconciles many points of view. the draft describes a robust and predictable mechanism for setting ten-year targets that will enable the long-term target to be achieved by 2050. but if we are to achieve our common goals, we must mobilise the right investments. we must ensure a just transition so that eu policies do not burden the poorest europeans. there are big differences between member states in the union and we should always take this into account when imposing new obligations. we don't all have the same starting point or the same pace of development. and that's something we should not forget.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in implementing energy and climate policies, we must listen carefully to the voices of experts and scientists. the ipcc's work has been characterised by its reliability, inclusiveness and neutrality with regard to equal technological options. however, the european parliament initiated the european climate council during the negotiations on european climate law. the applicants were not deterred by the fact that the new body would be duplicating the functions of the existing institutions, nor by the cost of running the body at present eur 20 million. however, even before the creation of this body and before the plenary vote, we are already seeing attempts to extend its mandate, as defined in the text, towards the creation of a super-body, an oracle, which is to deal with all, even the most detailed, activities beyond the council's competence at european level, from energy infrastructure to agriculture and beyond. it's important to establish... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president! congratulations to the commission! i want to congratulate vice president timmermans! this is a great day for europe and for the world. we have climate law. we're going to have, we're voting, i'm convinced, a 55% reduction in the next nine years. i wonder if those who say it's too much will be able to look with calm and responsibility into the eyes of their grandchildren, their great-grandchildren, even their children. those who say it's not enough -- let's remember, this is 15% more than we decided a few years ago. and finally, we want the support of the europeans. the action will not be easy. we have to remember that and we have to win, we can't lose here because we're setting an example for the whole world. these are the solutions we propose for the whole union. it's a sign of solidarity in action, because we have different starting points and different options for action, for example in renewable energy or climate efficiency. now it's time to get to the details. ladies and gentlemen, they won't be easy, but we'll prepare for them. for example, the emissions trading system must provide opportunities for our industry. we must also provide opportunities for a border carbon tax. we have to give a chance to the modernization fund, to the modernization of our industry in general, so that we really win and have the support of the europeans.
madam speaker, the house of lords! today we are voting on european climate law, which will become an essential part of our lives and the basis for all key legislative proposals, both in the 'fit for 55' package and beyond. first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, jytte guteland, for the enormous work she has done on this document and for finding compromise solutions to many very difficult and controversial issues. this green transformation is for the people, not against them. economic recovery from the covid-19 pandemic is an opportunity to channel resources to progressive, green and highly efficient technologies. let us also remember that it is the regions that are at the heart of the green transition. those who want to do more must be rewarded and given the necessary resources to achieve climate goals. this becomes crucial for mining areas. it is our responsibility to ensure that these regions are reoriented so that jobs are created through transformation, not lost. it is our duty to ensure that the green transition is carried out in a fair and socially just way, so as to ensure the prosperity of europe as a whole for decades to come. future generations are demanding a rapid and effective green transition. it is our responsibility to ensure that climate law provides the investment in new technologies necessary for this change, including green hydrogen, efficient batteries and the recovery of valuable resources from waste. let me be clear: climate change is real, and we're all paying for it. let's not risk our children's health.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. we are adopting today the framework for the world's most ambitious project to combat climate change. it's not gonna be an easy road. to achieve this, we need to completely re-engineer the european economy to become carbon-neutral in the next 25 years. this is a very big challenge, especially for countries like poland, whose economy is largely based on the exploitation of fossil fuels and coal. therefore, appropriate support will be needed to ensure that this transformation is fair and leaves no one behind. we must make these changes in a way that will keep our economy, our businesses competitive and strong. exporting production outside the european union, and thus emissions, would mean a big loss for the whole project. but climate legislation is only the first, largely symbolic step. the most important thing is the sectoral solutions we are about to adopt. from how we're going to reduce emissions in industry, in transport, how we're going to change the emissions trading system, to how we're going to introduce a cap on carbon. we are therefore waiting for the commission to present specific legislative proposals and hope that this will happen next month as announced.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. fighting climate change is a shared responsibility for all of us to protect our world. the adoption of the eu climate regulation is an important step in this process. with the symbolic discussions over, it is time for responsible action, and three principles should be considered. the european commission and the european parliament must, above all, respect the principle of rationality. the legislative proposals that will be published in the near future should be based on a thorough analysis of the potential benefits and costs, supported by impact studies, and should be drawn up on the basis of reality, avoiding radicalism. it's important to stop the left's unrealistic ambitions to turn climate policy into a debate. the principle of sovereignty is also of paramount importance. climate action should be based on cooperation and agreements between member states and should not lead to a reduction in the competences of nation states. the related legislative proposals should take utmost account of the specificities of the member states. finally, without equity, there can be no successful green transition. the costs of climate action should therefore not be passed on to people, families and businesses through the price of food and energy needed to sustain life. keeping government costs low and keeping companies competitive is the main task of policy debates in the coming period.
the covid—19 pandemic has made it clear that the green and digital transition are not just an empty phrase championed in brussels, but the new reality for society and businesses all over our continent. as europeans call for more action to protect our planet and companies adjust to the new reality that climate change brings, our policy—making needs to keep up. the commission’s proposal for a european green deal and the 2030 climate target for reduction of net greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% are welcome steps in this regard. the agreement that we are voting on during this mini—plenary session makes several positive and forward—looking steps: fixing the 2030 target for net 55%, making the 2050 climate—neutrality target a collective target on an eu level, the composition of a climate advisory board, non—binding sectorial roadmaps, climate partnerships and battery and hydrogen alliances. it is not enough to merely talk about the need for a sustainable future, we must outline how we plan to get there and then take concrete steps in that direction. the agreement on the european climate law is a positive development in bringing about a sustainable resilient future for our citizens.
in writing. i welcome the interinstitutional agreement on the climate law. the agreement strengthens the european framework for climate action by introducing, inter alia, the following elements: - an overall objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050; - an ambitious 2030 climate target of at least a 55% reduction in net emissions compared to 1990, specifying the contribution of emission reductions and removals; - a commitment to negative emissions beyond 2050; - the establishment of a european scientific advisory committee on climate change, which will provide independent scientific advice; - stricter provisions on adaptation to climate change; - strong coherence between union policies and the objective of climate neutrality; - a commitment to initiate dialogue with various sectors to prepare sectoral roadmaps to chart the path to climate neutrality in different areas of the economy. i congratulate the rapporteur!
in writing. after months of work and negotiations, parliament will vote to approve eu climate law. unfortunately, climate law is neither satisfactory nor consistent with scientific knowledge. moreover, although we have been talking about the need for change in the energy and transport sectors since the beginning of the european green deal, we still avoid talking about the livestock industry. the ambitious goals set by the ec in its 'from the field to the table' strategy to achieve a sustainable food production and consumption system are becoming increasingly unlikely to be achieved. this is evident, for example, from the recent negotiations on the common agricultural policy, which in its present form will allow, in principle, business as usual to continue. we will not achieve climate neutrality by 2050 if we continue to turn a blind eye to the industry responsible for 14.5 percent of the greenhouse gas emissions on earth. it is time for politicians to stop working with the livestock barons and protecting their interests, saying that they are protecting the interests of farmers, and actually take care of the environment, biodiversity, climate, human rights and animal rights. and not just for one term, but for decades to come.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a just transition requires funding, and we are providing it. but then it also involves coordination, it involves coordination and joint action between the member states. we have approved the multiannual financial framework, the recovery and resilience facility, the just transition fund, investeu and now this facility too, which allows public investment of €25-30 billion in the european union. but it is urgent that the member states do their job. i ask the commissioner: which member states have already submitted their national plans for just transition? it is because, for example, my country, portugal, has not yet submitted its plan. without the approval of this plan, there are no financial resources available. it is essential that these resources are then put to good use and that no one should ever forget not only the territories but also the people. and here too, skills are essential. and it takes planning so that nothing closes without people having alternatives. and the european social fund, the european social fund plus, is essential to this objective. but then also investeu, horizon europe in the area of research, the funds that are in the partnership agreements, the cohesion policy funds, all of them must be used to promote this just transition so that no territory or no person is left behind.
on behalf of the s&d group. - madam president! - i have to go. the green transformation of my country and the łódź region, where i come from, is a priority for me. this is a once-in-a-generation opportunity, but the transformation has to be fair. the public sector loan facility, which i worked on, is another mechanism that will support a just energy transition in europe and in poland. the entire facility amounts to up to eur 30 billion in grants and loans from the union, of which up to eur 7 billion for poland. we fought for poorer countries and regions like poland and the balkans to have the subsidy increased to 25 percent of the loan amount. unfortunately, there is a risk that, due to the negligence of the polish government, the region of bełchatów, including the power plant, which is the largest emitter of co2 in the union, will not see this money. this means the loss of tens of thousands of jobs, poverty and the lack of viable alternatives for generating income for the region. ladies and gentlemen, prime minister morawiecki, in the 1990s, when coal was still acceptable, the famous polish music video for the song "eagle shadow" was filmed in the bełchatów mine. what shadow falls on the belichats today when the region needs help and should be transformed? it's a shadow cast by the laziness and lack of commitment of those in power. time is running out. make up for your mistakes.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president, i would like to thank you. there's the just transformation fund, there's the loan fund, we're looking at the poorer regions, of course, we're looking at the counselling. these are very important words, but when we look at the whole of the energy transition and we see the great haste in pursuing this transition, we also have to see in the future the crisis of industry in the european union, the crisis of companies in the european union. remember, as one dutch politician said, it's not just wind that is driving renewable energy, but also subsidies and grants from individual countries. the legislative package 'fit for 55' is not preceded by a thorough analysis of the economic and social implications. res is expensive, res renewable also generates unemployment. let's keep that in mind. unfortunately, it's not 100% effective when it comes to the functioning of the res. there is a lot of talk about how renewables are installed and what power is installed. but there's a lot less talk about what the effects of these installations are. how much energy can you extract from these plants? it's a little quieter now. more advisory bodies, more advice, will not replace thinking. so i have to say very clearly that the european union has, or the european union countries have, praised plastic before. today we have a plastic tax. who knows what the future will bring with this problem of this energy transition gallop? i think we need to be guided by rationality, reason and a deep analysis of what we want to do. but of course, this just transformation fund, we're going to use it, and if it's there, we need to use it well.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the european union has set itself very ambitious targets: reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 and becoming climate neutral by 2050. of course, we all agree that we must protect the environment for future generations and progressively minimize the impact on civilization and on nature. and there is a general and shared consensus on this. unfortunately, the just transition fund is not just because it is not enough for all european countries. the third pillar, however, does not include projects as important for the transformation of the gas sector or support for smes. the co-financing for the regions during the negotiations and access to advice and advisory support was increased to 25%. unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, for the climate change debate to make sense for future generations, it needs to be more realistic, and instead of an ambitious adjective, a general, optimal and useful term must dominate. the most important thing is that we all have a responsibility to protect the environment without harming people, because it is easy to be an environmentalist living here in brussels, but much more difficult to be one living in a small mining community.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. we all accidentally rephrase "just transformation". i think that the citizens of europe will soon be able to see that we are not doing this. why would you do that? because she's not fair. why would you do that? because there's no money for it. you've probably read the report on climate law, which talks about the effects of impact. not only has it been criticized by the parliamentary services, but it clearly shows that there will be unemployment and energy poverty, and there is no money in the system for a just transition. this is already happening in the negotiations on the just transformation fund for polish regions - not just bełchatów and turów, but many other places that need money and will not receive it. why would you do that? because the european commission is saying, "close in a year, close in two years", even though we agreed that we are talking about zero emissions in 2050.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. it is very important that the eppo is operational. every euro must be spent in accordance with the expectations of our citizens, it must be protected. a strong and effective european public prosecutor's office means strong and effective protection of budgetary resources, including those that will go to our member states under the eu's next generation. and it would be good if all the member countries were involved in this project, in this institution. unfortunately, unanimity was not reached at the european council. today, the european public prosecutor's office has had to be established through the enhanced cooperation mechanism and should be mandatory for all member states. a government with nothing on its conscience has nothing to fear. i regret that the polish government has not joined the european public prosecutor's office, and i hope that this will change, because the effectiveness of the european public prosecutor's office depends on the fact that we all participate in it on the same terms and with the same diligence. i hope that all citizens of the european union will be effectively protected and that indeed all the funds, every euro, will be spent for the benefit and benefit of our citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. law and justice, my political environment in the european conservatives and reformists group, of course, believes that every euro should be spent transparently and that any criminal who commits fraud or embezzlement, whether he is a white-collar criminal or a politician, should be prosecuted and held accountable. but at the same time, we believe that today the european public prosecutor's office is not an institution that is necessary at this moment. the polish government believes that the judiciary, including of course the prosecution service, should be the sovereign domain of the nation states, the member states, to a much greater extent than is apparent from the supranational european bodies. i emphasize the sovereign domain. therefore, poland, along with countries such as denmark, sweden, ireland and hungary, did not join the project. i believe that in my country all the national measures to control the use of public funds, including, of course, the european ones, are sufficient. the best example of this is the success of the government of prime minister mateusz morawiecki, minister of justice zbigniew ziobra in the fight against vat criminals, vat mafias. the funds raised for the budget, which in the days of our predecessors flowed in a wide stream into the pockets of criminals, often those in white collar, today go through social transfers to polish families. the polish national prosecutor's office has of course started negotiations with the european public prosecutor's office as part of the consultation and working cooperation and of course such cooperation will take place at the working level.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. an independent prosecution is an essential element of any healthy legal system. an independent prosecutor protects the citizen from abuse of power. without an independent prosecutor, there is no state of law. we see it in poland. we see in hungary and not only there the violation of the independence of the prosecution, the division of prosecutors into "ours" and "not ours". it's the trademark of all politicians for whom the rule of law is their rule of law. as the european parliament, the democratic representation of the citizens of the european union, we cannot tolerate this, we will not tolerate this. last weekend i received from adam bodnar, the polish ombudsman for civil rights, this booklet, the constitution of the republic of poland, dedicated to the mp łukasz kohout, to defend at all costs all the good that comes to poland from membership in the european union. mr. advocate, i, a silesian, a citizen of the republic of poland, a citizen of the european union, will not fail. my whole generation, and the generation of my parents, dreamed of poland being a full member of the european union, free and sovereign, strongly integrated, free of national populism, with an independent prosecutor's office and participating in the work of the european prosecutor's office. they have propaganda, that's a fact, but we have the truth and we will fight for an independent judiciary, an independent prosecutor's office in every member state. the eppo shall be composed of a representative of the union and of the member states. the only thing that should be guiding them is the letter of the law.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 6 july 2021. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on fisheries on the european maritime, fisheries and aquaculture fund (06975/3/2021 - c9-0224/2021 - 2018/0210 ((cod)) (rapporteur: mr gabriel mato) (a9-0222/2021).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 6 july 2021. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the report by mrs beata szydlo, drawn up on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the ageing of the old continent opportunities and challenges after 2020 related to policies on ageing (2020/2008 (ini)) (a9-0194/2021).
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to thank you. i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! i would like to begin by thanking all the rapporteurs very warmly for their work, their comments, their suggestions, their amendments to the report, and there have been quite a few of them, almost 600, which confirms that the subject of the ageing of the old continent and demographic issues is of the utmost importance to all of us and that we are aware of the importance of these challenges. but at the same time, it raises the question: after 600 amendments that significantly alter the content of the report, is the report still what the authors intended it to be? or is it a completely different text? nevertheless, it seems to be a subject of such importance that it is worthwhile to dwell on it. i also want to thank very warmly the secretariat of the employment and social affairs committee, all the employees who supported us. thank you for your professionalism, for your help. thank you for your commitment. but first of all, i want to thank very, very warmly and sincerely my team, my assistants, my experts, my advisors. this is your hard work. this is a very good report that you have prepared in the belief that you are doing something very important for all the inhabitants of our continent. thank you very much for that. europe, the old continent, is getting old. and that's one of the biggest challenges we face today. the increase in life expectancy, the lower birth rate, these are the problems, the challenges that we face today. we can say that these demographic changes are also causing a deepening of the differences between the regions and, consequently, a depopulation of areas in the european union, especially rural areas. the report is very comprehensive and touches on many important issues in the lives of older people, because the elderly are the main characters of this report. this report is for them, and i believe deeply, ladies and gentlemen, that together we can bring about solutions that support the elderly. the coronavirus pandemic has further highlighted the issues that need our particular attention and has underlined the need for a dedicated strategy for older people to be integrated into eu action. it is about highlighting the role of older people in european union societies and providing them with appropriate care, countering the loneliness of older people and drawing on their vast knowledge and experience. this report therefore highlights the importance for society of maintaining intergenerational bonds, including through the promotion of mentoring and volunteering, and the crucial importance of providing older people with adequate long-term health care and supporting initiatives based on the silver economy, mentoring and ways of activating older people. it should be the senior who decides whether he wants to work longer or whether he can devote himself to other social roles, such as caring for grandchildren or community service. we also call for action to improve the quality of life of our seniors, adapted to their needs in public spaces, housing, transport. the report therefore calls for the european union to encourage member states to make greater use of eu funds, such as the european social fund plus and the european regional development fund, to adapt infrastructure for older people. this includes safe and accessible urban transport, as well as public buildings and housing that are adapted to the needs of older people. i am very pleased that the report mentions the efforts to preserve traditional crafts, because we must not forget their invaluable contribution to the material heritage of our culture. it is the elderly who are now the depositaries of knowledge about traditional professions, which are a unique part of europe's heritage. it is also very important to support the construction of day care centres close to schools and kindergartens, which will promote the development of intergenerational bonds and combat the loneliness of older people, as intergenerational solidarity is one of the fundamental values of the european union. and i cannot imagine a prosperous europe without respect for the elderly. we also propose the establishment of a year of intergenerational solidarity and older people's activity. this is a reference to the initiative of 2012, when the european union first tried to tackle the problem of ageing populations. many of the tasks set out then remain relevant today, and the coronavirus pandemic has presented the european union with additional challenges in this area. hence the call to rejoin the initiative. all forms of discrimination, crime, exclusion and violence against older people must also be strongly opposed. these are issues that we also need to talk about and we need to protect older people from. the coronavirus pandemic has also shown how important it is that older people are not digitally excluded. ladies and gentlemen! many say this report is too unprogressive or conservative. there were different voices. we've spent a lot of time on this report. as i said, over 600 amendments have been received, for which i thank you very much. i think this report is worth looking beyond the political divisions to the plight and situation of the elderly.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the report tackles a very important social issue. who knows if the problem of an aging society, the challenges we face, the demographic situation, is not the biggest social challenge. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur, who has taken up this subject on her own initiative, has conducted it with great care over many months and has brought this report to a point. this report was the result of months of hard, competent work. i very much regret that these efforts have been destroyed to some extent by, let us say, openly, ideological games, because today it turns out that the european left is more concerned about these ideological games than the situation of the elderly, because they reject the wise and balanced proposals that were made in the beginning. we have therefore prepared and tabled an amendment to the alternative resolution which is consistent, comprehensive and very good, and i ask you to support this amendment.
madam president, please. the elderly are valuable members of society. it's important that they live their lives with dignity and independence. we need to help our aging family members to live with new technologies, to adapt their homes to their needs, and to learn how to manage e-services. in the same way, the elderly can help their adult children as new generations arrive. in my country, hungary, grandparents who are still working can get five extra days of leave after the birth of each grandchild, or they can stay at home with the baby, because the grandchildren can also receive childcare allowance until the age of two. i encourage you to take these good examples from hungary.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! we welcome the report prepared by the european parliament, especially in view of the interest of the commission and the council in the issue of ageing. demographic change has far-reaching implications and only a strategic approach will enable us to seize the opportunities of extending the lives of europeans and meet the challenge. ageing should be treated with the same attention as green and digital transformation. the report's value is its approach based on citizens' rights and non-discrimination. it emphasises the contribution of older people to social and economic life. it touches on very painful issues, including ageism, violence, abuse and fraud against the elderly, poverty, the status of women, the digital divide. i think it lacked an approach that addressed the needs and challenges of all generations. i am also surprised that the ecr has tabled an amendment in the form of a cut-and-dried alternative text which omits many of the points on which we have reached agreement in the empl committee.
madam president! we are dealing with a report which, as mrs szydlo has rightly said, deals with the fundamental problem of an ageing european society. the report adopted by the committee on employment and social affairs correctly identified the problems and pointed out that the key to solving them is to ensure fair social security systems, to enable women and men to reconcile work and family life, to provide effective health care and to avoid discrimination. in the context of increasing fertility, it rightly points to the important role of promoting women's rights, adequate education and access to sexual and reproductive health services and goods. despite these advantages, the committee's rapporteur, ms szydlo, has challenged the report's content by presenting an alternative draft resolution. a project that ignores such important issues as combating discrimination, inequalities in employment and remuneration, or supporting women in rural areas. this is an incomprehensible course of action. i hope that parliament will support the committee's report and the amendments proposed by our group.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! we have prepared an alternative resolution because we believe that this is a very important problem: an ageing europe and ageing with dignity. but we cannot agree, i cannot agree, that the report on the elderly, on the elderly, should be subject to some kind of ideological game, as one of the political groups is trying to do. i cannot agree that the radical left in every document, whether it is about the subject or not, demands that issues such as reproductive rights be introduced. and no ideological games and attempts to pressure me or my colleagues will force us to give up our values, the principles we believe in and which we believe we owe to our voters, the citizens of europe who have entrusted us with these mandates, to all of us, to deal with their issues and not just ideological games.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. i am elected by elderly people on the list of an elderly party and therefore find it very special that this parliament is talking about elderly people. i am glad that my amendment has been adopted, because it will ensure that we also talk to the elderly. the population of the european union is composed of young and old. we talk about people a lot, but i think we should talk to people. i am perhaps one of the few grandparents in this parliament who knows how important it is to be able to use this experience of life. i am glad that the commissioner has already indicated at an earlier stage that he is in favour of the parallel establishment of an elderly parliament alongside the youth parliament in order to use the experience of the elderly in policy-making and not in determining the retirement age or in implementing pension policy. these are matters of national policy. we need to come up with smart systems to make pensions affordable.
president, commissioner, the ageing of europe can bring problems. facilities need to be adapted, and the extent to which this needs to be done varies from region to region. but we need creative solutions. but let me be clear about one thing: women are not instruments of population policy, you can write that on your belly. and the pis party's pushing this is really crazy. it is not the church, it is not the state, but it is women themselves who are going to decide whether or not they want children. and women in europe must be able to assume that sexual and reproductive health is well regulated in europe. they must be able to assume a good work-life balance in which they are not predestined for the kitchen. women's rights i just want to make it clear here i will not let this report erase them.
madam president, european society is getting old. this development was preceded by complex causes that resulted in lower birth rates, but also in an outflow of young people from some areas. unfortunately, we didn't respond in time with supportive policies. today, we see the growing effect of so-called sandwich parents, who, along with their children, are struggling to care for their parents because we don't have the necessary infrastructure. it's the middle of the night. in order to adopt effective policies for ageing in dignity, older people need access to healthcare and care services, as well as to lifelong learning. of course, a well-designed family policy and fair valuation of childcare in the pension system are absolutely key. the high potential of new digital assistant technologies, which can significantly help older people to live independently, should also be highlighted. the dignity of the lives of our parents and grandparents is our mirror.
madam president! let's be honest, we're in a very curious situation where the author of her own report is contesting it, contesting it only because she tried to backdoor a report written under the dictates of the vatican. a report that reduces a woman to an object, to an incubator, to be used only to give birth. a report that treats seniors, older people, people with disabilities in a paternalistic way. she didn't succeed, and fortunately, because it was a terrifying dystopia that she was trying to transplant from the land of the writing to the land of europe. fortunately, we resisted that. why would you do that? because that's not our vision of europe. these are not our values, our values are freedom, equality, social justice and caring for all, regardless of exclusion. i am therefore glad that this report looks quite different today than when it was proposed in its fatal and unacceptable form.
madam president, the ageing of the population is undoubtedly one of the most significant challenges facing the european union and the continent as a whole. there is a much higher increase in life expectancy, there is a decline in birth rates, there is a decline in the working age population, and, ultimately, that causes a reduction in the european proportion of the world population. in some regions of my country, spain, there are also major depopulation situations. this has consequences from a personal point of view, but also from a social point of view. so it's important that we take up the challenge and look at the impact of this aging, which has to be a dignified and healthy aging. the gender perspective also has to be taken into account. there has to be lifelong learning. the issue of volunteering is very important. when an elderly person wants to continue learning, he goes to a library and that is why solidarity between the generations is very important as a fundamental value of the union. we must focus on long-term care, which must also be of high quality and accessible. and we must fight poverty in old age and, above all, ensure that there are adequate and sustainable pensions, especially widow's pensions. only then will we live up to our european values.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i want to thank you for this very enriching debate. all of you said ageing starts from the moment we are born, so ageing is a very complex phenomenon. many of you said that ageing is a challenge, but it is also an opportunity since we said at the beginning that in the last 50 years we live 10 years more, which means that we live longer and healthier lives, so this is also very important. and i have to highlight once again that this is the first ever commission which assigned one portfolio to demography, which shows how important demography is for us in europe. so your report shows that tackling ageing requires a whole-of-government approach. you identify a common goal of ensuring intergenerational solidarity and upholding the rights of everyone at all stages in life. i have been listening carefully to the points you raised. many principles of the european pillar of social rights relate to ageing, including the principle of lifelong learning, access to quality and affordable health and long-term care, pensions, many others. in synergy with the green paper, the european social rights action plan announced several initiatives relevant for ageing policies including the initiative on long-term care in 2022. the european union gender equality strategy is also relevant in tackling ageing trends. it delivers on the commission’s commitment to achieving a union of equality. women often align their decision to work and how to work with their caring responsibilities. they carry a disproportionate burden of unpaid work, which constitutes a significant share of economic activity. accumulated lifetime gender employment and pay gaps result in an even wider pension gap and consequently older women are more at risk of poverty than men. this is what many of you highlighted today. demographic change is happening in real time. never before have citizens enjoyed such long and healthy lives. this is a major achievement of our social market economy model. addressing demographic change is key to building a fairer and more resilient society. the european union and its member states can prevent or limit the negative impact of ageing. i reiterate once again, this is mostly in the competence of the member states. for this, we need the firm commitment and engagement of young and older people. we need to foster intergenerational solidarity and responsibility with enabling policies. i want to thank parliament for your work on ageing policies, and we look forward to continued cooperation on demography.
i'm closing the debate. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday 6 july 2021. the final vote will take place on wednesday 7 july 2021. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
demographic change has different impacts across europe's regions, with rural and remote areas being most severely affected, which are also experiencing a population decline that could have a negative impact on the social, economic and territorial cohesion of the european union. on the other hand, the ageing of the workforce and the lack of generational renewal is a problem that affects agriculture most intensely. as s&d rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i argued for a multidimensional approach and the importance of promoting wider complementarity and synergy between policy areas and support instruments in order to overcome the demographic challenge facing the european union. the report showed some gaps, particularly in the importance of gender equality, gender mainstreaming and the protection of minority rights in the context of the action needed to tackle the demographic challenges, and i therefore support the amendments it has tabled in this respect, which i believe are fundamental to improving the final text.
in writing. the ageing of the population is a very important challenge which the eu is called upon to address. life expectancy has increased, fertility rates have decreased, urbanisation has increased and the working population has shrunk, resulting in a shrinking share of europeans in the world population. demographic changes are also exacerbating differences between regions and, consequently, causing a decline in the eu population, especially in rural areas. the coronavirus pandemic has highlighted the problems that require special attention and has underlined the need to establish a specific eu strategy for older people. the aim is to highlight the role of older people in eu societies, to provide them with appropriate care, to prevent loneliness in old age and to benefit from their vast knowledge and experience.
in writing. we have a real problem in the european union. natural growth is positive in the world, but unfortunately eu countries have a serious problem with an ageing population and a lack of preparation for this process. we have to take care of the oldest people who spent years of their lives building what we have today. we rarely take advantage of their experience and knowledge. every human life is precious, every person deserves respect and a place in society. development goals are important, but only if they serve everyone. we tend to focus on physical illnesses, forgetting that a weakening body often has a very active mind. i'm also concerned that in such an important document, the left has traditionally smuggled ideology. i have less and less hope that the ep will focus on real problem solving and finding a compromise on any issue. this could have been a really valuable document.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by peter van dalen on the impact of offshore wind farms and other renewable energy systems on the fisheries sector (2019/2158 (ini)) (a9-0184/2021).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 6 july 2021.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr helmut scholz on the citizens' dialogue and participation in eu decision-making (2020/2201 (ini)) (a9-0213/2021).
madam president, mr vice-president, mr prime minister, the beginning of the slovenian presidency of the european union is turbulent to say the least. mr prime minister, you know that your slanderous remarks about the members of the european parliament, but also about judges and journalists, have shocked the whole of europe. i am glad to hear that, as you yourself have said, the european union brings together countries with different traditions, different cultures, that there are differences which must be taken into account and respected. but i would like to remind you that there is also a common foundation, namely european values, respect for democratic norms, respect for the fundamental rights of every individual, whatever his political, religious or sexual orientation, whatever his skin colour and whether he is a man or a woman. there can be no compromise on respect for fundamental rights and this new presidency cannot be an excuse, ladies and gentlemen, to turn a blind eye to behaviour which, i repeat, is unacceptable at the time of this new presidency.
madam president, i would like to welcome prime minister janša back to the european parliament. the people of slovenia have achieved so much in the last 30 years. slovenia joined the european union, slovenia was the first member of the new eu member states to become a member of the euro area, and today slovenia is a member of the schengen area. the people of slovenia enjoy all of the benefits of the european union. they can choose where they work and where they travel – freely all over the european union – and the young people of slovenia can study everywhere in the european union. more than 25 000 young slovenians so far, through erasmus scholarships, have discovered europe and studied in other member states of the european union. today, slovenia is at the heart of all decisions made at european level. colleagues from slovenia here in the european parliament, together with us, are making decisions for the whole european union and also for the best of slovenia. in the last months, we have also made decisions together on vaccines which have helped us to overcome the pandemic. together we have implemented the recovery and resilience facility, which will help modernise electricity and the railways and help tourism in slovenia. it will help digitise the slovenian economy, renovate buildings and have many other concrete benefits. on this note, there is a lot for us to do together in the next months. good luck to slovenia for the presidency in the spirit of eu values.
madam president, i perceive the role of the presidency to be to guide us through political and economic challenges we might face in the eu. the voice of the presidency should give a certain shelter from storms, such as huge divisions between countries. the programme of your presidency on paper gives hope that the most crucial topics are addressed. you want to guide our community through a crucial economic recovery process. you plan to discuss with us the future of europe, helping us understand what we want and expect. you aim to address our global position with a focus on ensuring security and stability in our neighbourhood. these points, i have to say, gain my full support. still, there is one thing that is non—negotiable: our fundamental values of which the rule of law is core. the rule of law is about making all citizens feel safe, maintaining and strengthening the freedom of the press, respecting the rights of minorities, and ensuring a fair process to every citizen. sure, no country is perfect in this respect, but the recent years have started to create a division between the central european states and the rest. it is your chance, prime minister, to prove that this is not the case. please address the breach of the rule of law in the eu. do not ignore any country that might undermine our common values, including your own country.
madam president, the honourable representative of the commission, mr sefcovic, the honourable president janša. first of all, i would like to thank president jansch for presenting the programme of the presidency. i think he's pretty well balanced. on the one hand, we have some important strengths that touch on security issues, especially cybersecurity, and on the other hand, there are policies and tasks that we face, especially in the digital and green transitions. but there is not much time to talk about the programme, i would rather touch on or respond to some of the views of colleague fajonova and colleague grošlja and some others who put the slovenian government, present as undemocratic, inefficient and the like. the facts are in your denial. when the slovenian centre-right government, especially mr janša's government, was in power, slovenia had the highest economic growth, the lowest unemployment, the strongest welfare state, even the birth rate was significantly higher in those times. but if these facts, these facts do not convince you, let me say that in slovenia the index of media freedom is also significantly higher during the janša government and the index of democracy in slovenia was also significantly higher during the centre-right governments.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, dear prime minister janša, honourable members of the european parliament, as we all discussed this morning, i think it’s absolutely clear that the next six months will be decisive. prime minister, by the end of your presidency we will know how successful we were in combating the covid-19 crisis. we will know how we managed to kick-start our economies. we will also have our first experience in implementation of our recovery and resilience (facility) plans. and we will know how far the presidency managed to bridge over the differences, which i’m sure we will have to take care of after the proposals of fit for 55. we would also know what would be the key messages our fellow europeans will be signalling to us through the debates under the conference on the future of europe. and i’m sure that one of the key messages we will get from them will be the message of trust. trust our fellow europeans want us to consolidate vis-à-vis their future, the future of europe. they would like us to see how we can consolidate further trust in democracy, in free media, in full respect of the principle of non-discrimination, but also in transparent governing, independent courts and the rule of law. and i would like to use also these concluding remarks to reassure all the honourable members that the commission will present the second edition of our rule of law reports in the coming weeks. and i can assure you that the situation in each and every member state will be scrutinised according to the same criteria. we in the european commission look forward to discussing these reports, be it here in this house or in the general affairs council, where i can assure you that these debates are very detailed and very, very intense. to conclude, i really would like to thank you mr prime minister, for highlighting the importance of the western balkans for the european union. we hope that during your presidency, we will not only send a strong signal to our strategic partners from this region, but that we will be able to start accession processes for albania and north macedonia. we all know how important and how fair this step would be. so, mr prime minister, good luck with the presidency and let’s have the best possible results in the next six months, because we know that europe needs it.
the chairman of the council. - mr president! thank you very much for your opinion. i would also like to thank the german and portuguese presidencies, who have been mentioned by many. in fact, much work has been done, and in difficult circumstances. at a time of epidemic and when it was not possible to agree things through screens that are usually agreed in face-to-face meetings, a lot of extra effort was needed, both by german chancellor angela merkel and by portuguese prime minister antónio costa. we have worked very well together, which is why the slovenian presidency can continue the implementation of the trio programme, which is logical, and i thank everyone who supported him in these appearances. thank you to all of you, and thank you to all of you who have mentioned slovenia and the reminiscences of 30 years ago in these talks. now that we slovenians were celebrating our historic decision together with the presidents or representatives of the governments of all the neighbouring countries, with the president of the european council who was with us at the time, we remembered the enormous difference between the time thirty years ago and the time now when we live in the european union, when all our neighbours are also members of the european union, when we have a future as a nation that we have never had before, i mean a good future, and we also expressed gratitude. slovenia is now the fifth safest country in the world, and we are ninth in terms of sustainable development. we currently have one of the highest economic growth rates in europe despite the pandemic, and we have lower unemployment than in the pre-pandemic period. the economic growth forecast for this year and next year by the european commission is again at a record high and slovenia, i think, has one of the lowest, if not the lowest, social inequality index in the european union. so, we're proud of what we've accomplished in these 30 years. we joined the european union to unite, not to divide. we slovenes lived in a country that was multinational, that was a kind of federation, a socialist federation, where there was no democracy and no high standard of respect for human rights, but this state somehow existed until the republics and the peoples in this country began to divide into those who were more virtuous and those who were less virtuous, those who were more yugoslav and those who were not so yugoslav. and then this country fell apart. we do not want to see similar divisions created within the european union. the values, the values that are written in the lisbon treaty are common values. i bargained for those values. i was a member of the european council at the time. during our first presidency, one of our priorities was to ratify the lisbon treaty as soon as possible with these values, and we know exactly what we are talking about, and these values are also the basis for the existence of the european union, but we must have a balanced attitude towards them. we cannot take one thing out of this basket of values and make it an absolute and then another thing that just suits a particular political situation. rule of law is key. we've talked about this before, but in this rule of law, we have to have an independent court that decides in the end. same with freedom of the press. all that was said about freedom of the press in slovenia, well, excuse me, the last journalist who was imprisoned in slovenia for his writing, is standing in front of you. there is no repression of the media or journalists in slovenia at the moment, it is simply a transfer of political factions from the slovenian parliament to the european parliament. finally, i would like to stress above all the following: we very much hope that the priorities presented represent a real transition from priorities or concentrations, strategic concentrations, to the european union of the future, to the challenges ahead of us, and that we will be able to reflect on them during this period. a few months ago, two of the world's superpowers sent their drones to mars. the united states and china. fifty years ago, billionaire china had a smaller gross domestic product than the netherlands. this year, china sent a drone to mars, not the european union. let's take a moment to think about the potential we have and how we're using it, and focus on priorities. so slovenia will be working seriously on the priorities, thank you for your support, thank you to the commission for the extremely constructive cooperation in all the concrete steps we are taking in terms of implementing these priorities. when we slovenians chose an independent state, we also chose the european path and we will continue to fight for europe to be as whole as possible, as free as possible, as a place of respect for fundamental human rights and fundamental political freedoms. strong enough to extend the area of freedom and respect for human rights to its neighbourhood, and i think i speak for the vast majority of my fellow citizens: this is one of the goals for which we slovenians have worked so far and are prepared to work in the future.
thank you, prime minister janša. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. poland supports the priorities of the incoming slovenian presidency on current challenges, in particular in the context of the recovery from the covid-19 pandemic and the complex international situation. we believe that working on resilience and preparing for possible future crises is crucial. from poland's perspective, work on the 'fit for 55' climate and energy package will be particularly important. in our view, the key elements of the package include: the revision of the ets; the objectives of the common effort to reduce (cer); the revision of the regulation on land use emissions and utilisation, land use change and forestry (lulucf). poland supports the initiative of the conference on the future of europe. we believe that the key to its success is the broadest and most direct participation of civil society. in addition, it should take into account the voice of key eu partners, and therefore the representatives of the western balkans as potential future eu members should be guaranteed to participate in the conference. poland supports the slovenian presidency's programme in the priority area of a credible and secure eu, capable of ensuring security and stability in its neighbourhood. we welcome the announcement of a focus on the eu enlargement process towards the western balkans, which will help to rebuild the eu's credibility in the region. we agree on the need to develop strategic cooperation with the us and nato, especially in the context of responding to common threats and challenges. we also offer our full support and assistance in the preparations for the eastern partnership summit in december this year.
in writing. hungary is one of the biggest supporters within the eu of the eu accession of serbia and other western balkan countries. we have long been disappointed to see some member states, mostly for reasons of internal politics, avoiding the subject of enlargement and blocking the acceleration of accession processes and the opening of new negotiating chapters, when the security of europe would require the acceleration of enlargement. over the years, successive eu presidencies have raised the issue of enlargement, but there seems to have been a lack of courage and political will to link the western balkans firmly and definitively to the eu. slovenia is an expert on the western balkans, and i therefore ask and encourage the slovenian presidency to do everything possible to achieve a common position with the member states sceptical about enlargement. this would be of particular importance for serbia as a key country in the region.
in writing. i very much welcomed the trio presidency declaration on ageing and the council conclusions adopted during the german and portuguese presidencies. i fully support the trio's position that demographic change is at least as significant as the challenges of climate change and digital transformation and should therefore be treated by the european union with equal commitment. we're at a critical juncture. the commission published a green paper on ageing and a european strategy on the rights of persons with disabilities. the un has declared 2021-2030 as the decade of healthy ageing. it is a very good moment to raise public awareness of the rights of older people, their contribution to economic and social life, the value of intergenerational learning and the importance of intergenerational solidarity. it is also time to turn declarations into concrete programmes and initiatives, both legislative and non-legislative. to meet the challenges of the pandemic, to make europe more resilient, to rebuild our economy, we need the strength, the wisdom, the talent of all generations. i will therefore be following closely the slovenian presidency's efforts to build an inclusive and supportive europe. i also hope very much that the slovenian presidency will inspire the next trio to include the issue of ageing in their priorities.
in writing. the eu economic assistance programme to the turkish cypriot community was based on the 2004 european council decision and implemented by regulation 389/2006 with the aim of facilitating negotiations for a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem on the basis of a functioning and reunified state within the eu. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the principles of the european union. the so-called 'turkish cypriot leader' mr tatar: (a) has been imposed on the turkish cypriot community through an illegal electoral process, following unprecedented interventions by turkey and in particular the organised support of turkish settlers illegally transferred to the occupied part of the republic of cyprus; and (b) has undermined the agreed objective of negotiations for a reunified state within the eu, which is essentially a precondition for eu financial assistance. these demonstrate that mr tatar does not represent the turkish cypriot community, but is an insider of turkey who insists on overturning the agreed framework for a reunified state within the eu. the european council and the european commission should review the assistance programme with the ultimate aim of resuming the negotiations on the cyprus problem in compliance with the decisions and resolutions of the security council and the un, and strengthening them towards the goal of a comprehensive settlement for a reunified state within the eu.
in writing. using generalities, declaring little-meaning goals and marking actions this is the strategy slovenia seems to be using for its presidency of the council of the eu. the assurances we heard in the presentation of the presidency's priorities in plenary about the need to protect the human rights of all citizens are far too little in the face of the rule of law crisis facing the european union. the declarations of intent to conduct a dialogue in a spirit of respect for national identity are in fact a prelude to another six months of inaction against violations of eu law and fundamental values by poland, hungary and other member states. it is unacceptable that we have not heard a word about women's rights, countering gender-based violence and finalizing the ratification of the istanbul convention. agriculture is a major priority for slovenia, but once again we seem to be focusing on the situation of farms, including industrial farms, and neglecting the environment and animal welfare. the second theme could be hopeful the presidency's agenda focused on animal welfare. but will the end of the ec's welfare review be a chance to at least partially correct the mistakes made in the cap and improve the situation of farm animals, especially those in factory farms?
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the connecting europe facility is a perfect example of the right and desirable european cooperation, deals with real problems, not ideological ones, and offers very concrete solutions in the field of economic, social and territorial cohesion. this is the european union we should be striving for. these are political objectives worth setting and pursuing. i am glad that despite pressure from the greens, the radicals, we have managed to maintain the funding of the gas infrastructure under the cef. these were difficult and sometimes emotional conversations. in the debate on this issue, we have heard a lot of criticism, dislike, and even hatred of gas. but our adversaries should remember that without gas as a transitional fuel, we will never achieve climate neutrality. without gas, there will be no green deal, but a black despair as energy supplies begin to plummet, electricity bills skyrocket, and paralysed eu industry is pushed to the margins of the global economy. this must not be allowed to happen by responsible european politicians. and thank you very much for your commitment, commissioner, and for everyone.
in writing. i am very pleased that, after many months of legislative work, we are witnessing the re-entry into force of the flagship connecting europe facility (cef), which, with a budget of over eur 30 billion, will have an impact on the development of europe's cross-border transport, energy and digital infrastructure. the investments financed by the cef will make a significant contribution to economic growth, job creation and competitiveness in the european union. in addition, modern pan-european infrastructure will play a very important role in pursuing the ambitious objectives outlined in the european green deal and will ensure targeted eu investment in all member states. the main objectives of the programme will contribute to the development of transport infrastructure linked to the ten-t core network, which will make european transport safer, more multimodal and more sustainable, connecting all regions of the european union and strengthening european integration. a very important aspect of the programme will also be to support innovation in the fields of energy transport and advanced digital solutions, so that europe's development goes hand in hand with reducing the environmental impact of transport, increasing energy efficiency and improving the safety of the citizens of the union.
in writing. the european transport network (ten-t) comprises a wide range of projects, and aims to connect and improve transport networks across europe. this includes railways, inland waterways and airspace. the ten-t will fill the gaps in transport links between member states and remove technical barriers, while promoting social, economic and territorial cohesion in europe. it is an ambitious but feasible strategy, and it will bring tangible benefits to each member state. ten-t has enormous potential. i therefore hope that my colleagues will support ten-t to ensure the completion of these projects.
i should like to begin by informing you that the left group in the european parliament gue/ngl has sent the president decisions on the changes to appointments to committees and delegations. these decisions will be published in the minutes of today's meeting and will enter into force on the day of their publication.
the next item is the report by mr gardiazabal rubial, on behalf of the committee on budgets, and mr petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the establishment of guidelines for the application of the general conditionality regime to protect the union budget (2021/2071 (ini)) (a9-0226/2021). ladies and gentlemen, we are a little late in the voting, you know that we have announced votes for 1 p.m. i assume that you will agree that i shall interrupt the debate for a moment at the appropriate time and then proceed to the vote. i see no contradiction in that.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr commissioner, another plenary session in which we are talking about the mechanism of conditionality of european funds with regard to the rule of law, and the question is when will we see action. because the mechanism came into force on 1 january and we have not yet seen its fruits. we were very clear from the outset that these guidelines were not necessary. we had just concluded an agreement and at no time were we told that it was not clear enough and therefore we do not understand what we can bring with these guidelines. but in any case, as i have said on several occasions, parliament is always ready to work with the commission to ensure that the regulation is strictly applied. and in this regard, several key messages from us. first of all, and this clearly defines the context in which we work, guidelines are not legally binding and, moreover, they cannot alter, extend or limit the text of the regulation. secondly, the commission has not met the deadline we asked parliament to meet, which we obviously regret, but it is also not very understandable, because there was plenty of time to present guidelines, a draft in march and to collect the contributions of parliament and the council, and we would have had plenty of time to arrive by 1 june. thirdly, we want more information, because it is good that the commission is telling us that they are working and that they are studying the cases, but we need more information. as far as the guidelines themselves are concerned, our report simply reiterates the regulation we negotiated. in fact, the commission's own draft simply takes up what we agreed in the regulation, which further reinforces the fact that there is no need to make these guidelines. but in any case, we took the opportunity to reiterate our position, and we have structured it around four paragraphs. first, the violation of the rule of law. we recall that individual violations of the rule of law principles as well as systemic or generalised violations must be considered. and we also recall that in article 3 of the regulation we have included a non-exhaustive list of indications of breach of the principles of the rule of law, and that of course the european commission can and should use any information available from a recognised institution. and we also believe that we should give civil society and ngos the opportunity to provide this information to the commission. second paragraph of our report: protection of the union's budget. because as institutions we are responsible for sound financial management, that is to say, for effective and efficient management, as defined in the financial regulation. there is clearly a link between sound financial management and respect for the rule of law, a rule of law which must be understood in relation to other values and principles enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union. this was also in the rules. discrimination against minorities, attacks on freedom of the press, freedom of association or assembly, the independence of the judiciary, the proper functioning of the institutions to combat fraud, corruption, etc. - all of these can have a direct and sufficient impact on the union's budget. once we have clarified what we consider to be a breach of the rule of law and the impact it may have on the budget, we then talk about the measures, and here the regulation is very clear. articles 6 and 7: all stages and a precise timetable are laid down. it states that we must respect the principles of objectivity, non-discrimination and equal treatment, and that, in addition, the measures taken must be proportionate in nature, duration and gravity. it's all very clear. and finally, we end our contribution with the protection of the final recipients and beneficiaries. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate not only my co-rapporteur but also the other groups in this house and to thank them for their work. the first idea we put on the table was the protection of the final beneficiaries. because the mechanism cannot penalise or prejudice these beneficiaries, and member states have an obligation, including the obligation to pay, to respect all agreements. in the agreement we reached with the council, and obviously with the commission, at the end of last year, the commission undertook to set up a system whereby beneficiaries could have access to all information and, above all, a system which would enable them, if necessary, to report irregularities. and in addition to this system, i hope that the commission is also working on how to use all the tools available to ensure that the funds are actually going to reach their intended recipients. so, commissioner, this debate is a good time to explain to us how they are working on this information and complaint portal, to explain to us also their view on the need for guidelines and their content, but i think this is the best opportunity for them to tell us exactly what they are doing and to answer the first question i asked in my speech: when are the first actions to be taken?
rapporteur. – mr president, commissioner hahn and the council, so here we are once again in this hemicycle, this plenary hall discussing the future of the rule of law in europe. once again we, as the parliament, will reiterate our position, that the commission has to act and has to act quickly. once again we will state our worry about the degeneration and regression of the state of rule of law in some member states, especially hungary and poland. once again, we deliver the messages we have heard from our voters and the citizens, that people are worried about their liberties, minorities being repressed, free media being shut down or bought by government oligarchs, judicial systems being party-politicised and independent judges being replaced by party loyalists. all this done with eu money. with the money distributed from the union’s budget to the member states. with taxpayers’ money. and it makes me not only sad, but it makes me outraged. this should not be happening in europe in 2021. yet, once again, here we are in this plenary hall, stating these same sentences, even though we have heard them multiple times and we all know the reality behind them. so here we are today because someone has to act. but who is that someone? the parliament? well, the parliament has multiple times stated its readiness and has done everything it can within its powers. however, the parliament lacks implementing powers. well, why won’t the council act? finding unanimity is very difficult when it comes to actions under article 7 of the treaty. and even more, the council and member states seem to be blackmailed by the same group that posed a threat to the mff and next generation eu negotiations last autumn. ultimately, it is in the member states’ hands how to respond to the growing deterioration of rule of law in europe. this brings us back to the commission. once again, we appeal to the commission to act. the parliament has triggered the article 265 tfeu procedure that also legally calls on the commission to act. i truly hope that we will finally see something concrete when we come back from summer recess. despite the holidays of the institutions, the violators of the rule of law will not rest. this is why autumn is the latest opportunity to concretely initiate the process of rule of law conditionality regulation by sending written notifications to member states concerned. there is no need to wait for the european court of justice ruling, and there is nothing that binds us to that. to facilitate the process, we as the parliament have drafted these guidelines for the application of the regulation for the commission’s use. this is our contribution. the european council demanded these guidelines. we did not consider them necessary to begin with, yet here we are, once again, delivering faster than the council in delivering our part. if the commission wishes, it can use these guidelines as such and start implementing the regulation right away. now the final obstacle, and this is the political one of course, we all know voldemort, can be considered to be out of the way. it’s cleared. we have the guidelines. there can be no more delay, no more excuses. dear commissioner, we need to work as allies. fixing the rule of law in the union demands a lot of hard work from all of us, and i know it is not always easy. we have our differences sometimes, but i believe that more than that we all value – i know you value, i know the commission values – we all value the rule of law as our basic principle. the parliament has been relatively patient, but we also like to think ourselves as pacesetters, helping the commission and the council to reach higher goals. we have met multiple times either in this room, in brussels or via video conference. we have a common understanding; all we need, all we need is the final will to act. we need action and the time has come, we are ready.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, parliament has again and again been pretty clear. first of all, the development of these guidelines for the regulation is actually not necessary as it is sufficiently clear as it stands. secondly, the guidelines presented by the commission unfortunately have little, or very little, additional value to clarification. thirdly – and i must say this, commissioner – suspicion is actually high that the commission is fully aware of this, but presented these guidelines anyway to buy some time. commissioner, i must say that i think we really need to end these theatre plays. we don’t need more delaying tactics, and we don’t need statements or commissioners being very concerned about the situation of the rule of law in the european union. we need action, and it is not me saying it. check the committee votes. apart from the far right in this parliament, all groups agree. so, commissioner, take this as a strong appeal. i can only support my colleagues in saying, come back from the summer break with a strong case on the basis of this regulation.
member of the commission. – mr president, i think it’s always good to continue our already traditional exchange on the rule of law conditionality mechanism today on the occasion of the own—initiative report on the guidelines today, so a first discussion in this format since we shared our draft for these guidelines with you and with member states, as it was done mid-june. this regulation is an historic achievement for the union and it applies since 1 january 2021 and has been followed up from that date, and may i recall that it was the commission’s proposal in 2018 to have such an instrument. again, i am grateful for all the support at least we received in this house before the european parliament elections, but also afterwards. having said this, again i can only recall that all relevant breaches that affect or risk affecting the sound financial management of the union budget and the financial interests of the union after that date will be covered. as said already in the past, no case will be lost. the commission has been actively working to assess information from all sources in view of building up a robust case, robust cases, and initiating the procedure under article 6 of the regulation. notification letters will be sent without any delay as soon as we have gathered concrete evidence that the conditions required by the regulation are fulfilled. the regulation requires the commission to provide guidance for the benefit of final recipients and beneficiaries whose rights have to be ensured, and on this we very much agree. as you know, our draft guidelines include such guidance. the guidelines also explain the procedure and the way the commission will assess cases under the regulation. i fully agree with your report that the guidelines cannot and will not change the law as set by the regulation, but only clarify how the commission will apply it. the regulation requires a sufficiently direct link between any rule of law breach and risks for the sound financial management of the union budget or the financial interests of the union. thus, a sober assessment of the following is therefore needed. the commission should assess whether a rule of law breach affects or seriously risks affecting the principles of sound financial management or the financial interests of the union in a sufficiently direct way. it may also need to assess whether the non-compliance with sound financial management principles arises from rule of law breaches in a sufficiently direct manner. if a sufficiently direct link with the budget cannot be established, the regulation will not apply. however, other tools of union law may apply instead, for example infringement procedures or the famous article 7 procedures. i would like to recall in particular that systematic or serious breaches are covered by the regulation but that a general indirect or merely theoretical effect on the budget is not enough to trigger the regulation. the commission must be able to demonstrate an identified or identifiable effect or risk for the budget. the regulation also requires the commission to apply the regulation in a complementary way. thus the procedure under the regulation will be opened when the substantive conditions described before are met, unless the commission finds that other procedures provided by the union’s financial sector regulation allow it to protect the budget more effectively than the general conditionality regulation. for instance, existing procedures to protect the union’s financial interests, including those involving investigations by olaf and eppo, as well as measures provided under the sector-specific financial rules, may be more effective and should be used instead. the regulation finally requires the commission to define the most appropriate and proportionate measures to be proposed to the council by evaluating the impact of the rule of law breach on the budget, taking into account all relevant factors. honourable members, the commission has received your letter calling for a full and immediate application of the regulation. you choose to pursue this path and of course the commission will react appropriately within the timeframe foreseen by the treaties. i will already state here that the commission has ensured proper application of the regulation since the day it entered into force. we have done so along two main strands. firstly, through the guidance on which you are consulted and that we are discussing today; secondly and most importantly, through the building up of the cases, which requires a well-formed, thorough, methodical and analytical assessment of the available information. for example, one of our sources in this context, the commission’s annual rule of law report, will be presented later this month. all this analytical work may soon materialise, demonstrating further the determination of the commission to apply the regulation in order to ensure an effective protection of the budget against breaches of the rule of law. in doing so, the commission will of course continue to take into account the views of parliament and this is also the reason why we are waiting for parliament’s comments on the guidelines under consultation, and be reassured once again, as mr sarvamaa said, i think we are strong allies and i think we are also allies in the way that we want this instrument to become a success story in a way that indeed it can help to address successfully and sustainably rule of law breaches and correct different and several developments in some of our member states in a way which we intend to see, at least here in the hemicycle, by a huge majority. so be reassured. we will act, but we will act in a way that finally we are successful. i think this is in all our interests.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the values of the european union are imperative. they must be respected by all the institutions and, in particular, by the member states. they are a condition of access to be in the european union. they are a condition of membership, but they are also an obligation for those who remain in the european union. the values of the european union are not negotiable. they're the go-to guys. these are values that are irrevocable. they are in the treaties and therefore we should not even need a rule of law regulation. a regulation which is basically a budgetary conditionality for those who violate the rule of law. furthermore, commissioner, this regulation has been in force since 1 january 2021. it has to be applied, it is clear enough. it does not need guidelines and applies to the multiannual financial framework also for 2014-2020 and, in particular, to outstanding commitments and payments also resulting from those commitments. it also applies to the next generation eu, it applies to the multiannual financial framework, obviously 2021-2025 and a council, the council of the european union, cannot change this regulation or the guidelines and the challenge is: apply it now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of the budget of the european union is a fundamental obligation of all european institutions, as well as national ones. after all, the budget of the european union is the money of the citizens and that is why it must be protected, but let us not forget that the lever is in the hands of the european commission, commissioner, and that is why i believe that the commission must monitor violations of the rule of law in all member states according to the same indicators and make a qualitative, objective, impartial, fair assessment, taking into account relevant information from that state. and of course we have to protect the final beneficiaries. if the officials of a state violate the principles of the rule of law, the final beneficiaries should not suffer and the citizens should not suffer. in cases of corruption, nepotism, systematic fraud, conflicts of interest, the commission has to look at the case by case, in a transparent way, and see if payments can be continued. i support the creation of an effective single online portal where citizens can report cases of fraud and for the commission to come before parliament at least twice a year to report back to us.
before we continue the debate, i would like to open the first round of voting today. the vote will be taken on the items on the agenda. the voting will be open from now until 2.15 p.m. the same voting procedure will be used as you know from the last partsession. all votes shall be cast by name. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, explanations of vote may be up to 400 words. i declare the voting open. you can vote until 2.15 p.m. the results of the votes will be announced at 7 p.m.
we now continue our debate on the report by mr eider gardiazabal rubial and mr petri sarvamaa (a9-0226/2021).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i know that i will not get much applause here, because i would like to ask why we are not dealing with the 2,500 letters sent by spanish judges to the european commission today, because the rule of law is being violated there. so i ask, why don't we deal with the beaten french workers in yellow vests on the streets today? i ask, why are we not dealing today with the rise of fascism in western european countries? a polish driver was murdered in germany last night for defending passengers. that's what poles do, and you attack us. i ask, why don't we deal with the dutch government, which lied and used electricity unnecessarily to catch fish? today you attack poland and hungary. you have very bad information. i will just remind you that angela merkel in the bundestag last december said that poland and hungary had the right to appeal to the court of justice of the european union. poland did it on purpose. mrs merkel also said that poland had the right to defend its good name. so you ask her why she said that, because you have very bad and untrue information about poland.
mr president the european parliament's resolution on the rule of law is yet another attack on community law, european values and european cooperation. it is shameful what the left is doing, the way they lie, the way they turn the european parliament into an ideological court of arbitrary jurisdiction, and the way they attack again and again member states that refuse to follow orders from brussels. the political intention of the left-wing majority in the ep is to severely restrict the sovereignty of hungary and poland, or to help left-wing puppet governments serving brussels interests in all things to come to power in these countries as well. but let there be no doubt in your minds for a moment that we will fight for our freedom and our independence. hungary is a well-functioning democracy, a fair state of law, where fundamental rights are guaranteed and people live in greater freedom than in much of the western half of the continent. they can't bring him to his knees or starve the hungarians. for us, hungary is our passion.
mr president, mr commissioner, a healthy and prosperous democracy goes hand in hand with a responsible management of the european union's money. we all know that the level of democracy in the member states of the european union is not the same. that is why the budget of the european union must be subject to stricter controls and we must clearly define what happens if the rules that we, as the european union, require of the other member states, are not respected. so what happens to this money? who will they be, and on what terms? i think we're forgetting the most important thing, and that's the rule of law. the rule of law is the alpha and omega of the system. and then his recovery. i think that the debate today is a call for the commission to start looking at this issue. what are we waiting for?
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. once again, we're talking about the rule of law and the conditionality mechanism. this rule of law is modified by all cases, in particular with regard to poland and hungary. but what is the rule of law when it comes to the functioning of the european institutions, including the european parliament? you're breaking the law. were there any findings of the council and the commission? why don't you respect them? poland and hungary had the right to challenge this mechanism before the cjeu. they did it. why don't you want to wait for the decision of the european court of justice? or have you already heard the ruling? it's an independent court. you know that there is a legal opinion that is crushing this regulation, and yet you are pushing your solutions without waiting to see what the court of justice in luxembourg will say on the matter. i want to inform you that poland spends european money without fraud, without corruption. this is evidenced by the settlement of some 60% of the appropriations in the current financial perspective.
mr president, i would say to the commissioner that while we procrastinate on budget conditionality, in spain day by day the rule of law becomes the rule of laughter. just two examples: andreu mas—colell, 77, distinguished economist, harvard professor, former administrator of the catalan government. his assets are about to be seized by the spanish court of auditors without due process; marcel vivet, 26, a schoolteacher, he went to a demonstration to protest police violence. weeks later, he was arrested and now he has been convicted to five years in jail. what do mas—colell and vivet have in common? well, they are catalans. they are democrats. they are victims of political persecution in spain. while you draft guidelines, spain disobeys the council of europe. don’t be fooled – the spanish government has granted nine pardons, but the persecution of catalan dissidents persists and hundreds, hundreds, are in the pipeline to stand trial before judges that ignore the presumption of innocence. so, commissioner, make sure the government of spain complies with the full homework assignment by the council of europe. stop getting dragged into the mire of spanish repression.
mr. chairman, please! the european union was built and expanded on the assumption that those member states that met the criteria for membership would later perfect their democracy. unfortunately, it turns out that the democratic mandate can be used to destroy democracy. the european union was not prepared for authoritarianism in its member states, and is only now learning how to deal with it. this has resulted in two programmes, one 'rights and values' targeting civil society, strengthening civil society, and the other binding on the rule of law and european funds. i appreciate the efforts of our reporters who have done everything to make sure that this is not a dead letter. there's no need for a manual. we need an implementation that hits the bad guys, but protects the beneficiaries of the funds and, of course, defends itself before the court of justice of the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to begin by making it clear, particularly to those of you who are listening to us and who are not so familiar with the details of the subject, that we in the commission follow a timetable and we adhere to it quite precisely. we have always said that the spring will be necessary to develop guidelines which will really clarify when and how this new instrument can be used. however, as announced, we have given the draft of these guidelines, which are in principle an internal commission action guide, to both the european parliament and the european council in mid-june, in view of the sensitivity of the subject, with the request that they send us their respective views on this paper. they have done so very quickly and are now adopting a report on this and then, on the basis of that report, probably also a statement on our guidelines by the end of august. on the basis of these opinions we will then complete and finalise our internal code of conduct. we will start to act in the autumn, as i have always said. let us send out information letters where we do not yet have a complete picture, but where we already have a complete picture, we will also immediately start with a corresponding notification. so we're going to do what's in the regulations. but again, it has to happen in a way, and we all agree that it has to happen in a way, that it ultimately leads to success. because i think you would be the first to criticize us, to criticize me if the first application or the first applications should not be successful. and by the way, even though this is being discussed today, it's not just one or two countries that are the targets, the potential use cases. i do not exclude the possibility that other countries may also be affected by this instrument. and a second clarification, also because this has been mixed up many times in the debate today: this is a mechanism that can be used when european funds are threatened in their use by shortcomings in the rule of law or when there is a potential risk. this is not a panacea for all possible cases of rule of law deficiencies or violations, but is clearly aimed at something. other instruments are known to exist for other cases of breaches of the rule of law. i wanted to remind you of that too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they are not negotiable, but they are not, if you like, modifiable in their basic substance - that is written in the pedigree of all those who believe that you can, so to speak, transform european values in the direction that suits you personally.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. respect for the rule of law is a fundamental prerequisite for the proper management of the budget of the european union. if the rule of law is not respected, it is difficult to expect that funds will be spent as intended. the temptation to corruption, including political corruption, is too great. that is why we adopted a regulation at the end of last year on a general system of conditionality to protect the union budget. to prevent such things from happening. but let us recall once again, because this is crucial according to the regulation the interests of final recipients and beneficiaries must be protected. any suspension of payments shall not affect the obligations of the member states towards those beneficiaries. businesses will not lose, organizations will not lose, local governments will not lose, people will not lose. they lose governments that break the rule of law. governments and their courtship. and they should be, because they don't deserve the money. eu funds are for eu citizens who respect eu values. and let's remember one more thing. we're talking about a pay suspension here. as soon as the rule of law violations are cleared, the payouts will resume. anything that hasn't been paid will be paid. and this is also very important, because the autocrats build their narrative around the argument of either us and the money, or neither us nor the money. and that is a load of crap. it's the other way around.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, turkey is a candidate for european union membership. it’s a strategic ally which, together with us, defends us from the challenges from east and south. for this reason, we have a right to monitor the domestic situation and how it influences turkey’s international commitments. turkey is a candidate, but still not a member of the european union so let’s monitor its behaviour as a candidate country. do not use the domestic problems – who doesn’t have a problem? – as an excuse to freeze our cooperation. this is not a black and white cliché, and let’s remember the extremely hostile geopolitical situation in the neighbourhood of turkey. so let’s talk with ankara in a friendly manner and give them advice, not threats. in this way, we, the ecr group, have created our own resolution. we point to some domestic issues, inter alia of opposition parties and minorities. however, we limit our suggestion to a friendly piece of advice to solve the problems with the opposition in a cooperative manner and in a spirit of tolerance and pluralism. turkey is important to our security in many aspects. so let’s keep ankara as close as possible to us, and treat it in a friendly manner to overcome its domestic problems in a sovereign way.
madam president! interference in the affairs of foreign countries has always been a part of the rivalry. in the past, when it was usually a matter of gaining control of foreign territory, intrigue, fraud and corruption were the tools to help. today, when it comes to controlling the consciousness of alien societies, they have become the main weapon of constant confrontation. the internet has created a unique opportunity to act effectively on a large scale. democratic states are an attractive target because manipulating voter consciousness translates into important political decisions. at the same time, it's difficult for democracies to fight this without compromising their own principles and values. democracies need to be more resilient and more effective in deterring perpetrators, including through the use of painful sanctions. disinformation, corruption, the acquisition of agents, influence in the countries of the union are some of the sources of the rise in popularity of populism, intolerance and authoritarianism. the european parliament should create a permanent mechanism to deal with this issue, because foreign interference will not stop.
madam president! as one of the initiators of the magnitsky act, i am of course in favor of the resolution. i am also in favour of sanctioning serious cases of corruption, of voting in the council by a majority so that no country can block these sanctions, and of parliament being able to initiate sanctions and also to monitor them. but what's very interesting is the voices today from the post-fascist parties and the far-right parties, those who recently formed a putin alliance against the european union, that they are so passionately opposed to these sanctions. gentlemen, vladimir putin is pleased with you today, you deserve an extra bonus.
madam president! the establishment in december 2020 of a global sanctions system by the european union for human rights violations, inspired by the so-called global magnitsky act in the us, should be seen positively. it significantly extends the union's sanctioning instruments and allows it to respond to cases of serious human rights violations. it is intended to improve the efficiency of their implementation. it is the fourth horizontal sanctions regime available to the union, following the regimes on terrorism, the use of chemical weapons and cyber-attacks. the system in question applies to acts such as genocide, crimes against humanity and other serious violations or abuses of human rights, including freedom of opinion and expression and freedom of religion or belief. we should consider extending the regime to corruption as well, as it is in the us. however, the call for the introduction of qualified majority voting for the adoption of sanctions under this system in place of the unanimity principle adopted by the council cannot be accepted. this would be another step towards limiting the rights of member states guaranteed by the treaties. smaller states have rights too, not just the big and powerful.
madam president, minister, i have to go. you will leave brussels for ljubljana today with a clear signal to the majority of this parliament that the principle of unanimity is ineffective. the principle that was supposed to give rights to the lesser, as it was said, makes it dangerous for us. it makes it unfortunate that one country is able to block decisions that serve the security of most countries in the european union. i stand before you as the representative of a nation that has already experienced such unanimity. the so-called liberum veto was in force in poland in the 17th century. we were a community with lithuania then, and also in security matters, you could block decisions then. it took unanimity. what did that lead to? chaos, anarchy, and finally, despite lasting only a year and a half, led to the dismemberment of our country, the domination of other powers and the complete collapse of our statehood. let this be a lesson and an example that you can use in the council in the future to abolish this principle of unanimity, which is completely unnecessary.
ladies and gentlemen! since the establishment of the global system of sanctions for human rights violations the european parliament and ngos call for the inclusion of abuses and corruption in the global sanctions system. corruption has a devastating impact on human rights, the proper functioning of states and societies, and on justice and the rule of law. i'm asking for the system to be expanded to include acts of corruption. i am in favour of the proposal for a qualified majority. we cannot allow a situation in which the imposition of sanctions is blocked by one country because of its political sympathies or economic interests. verification and control systems should not allow any breach to be missed and monitoring should be a permanent feature to ensure the best possible supervision of sanctioned entities. i believe that the european parliament does not play a proper role in this system, and that strengthening its role and providing oversight will increase the guarantee of the functioning of this system.
in writing. the adoption of an eu sanctions regime against human rights abusers worldwide is an important addition to the eu's human rights and foreign policy instruments and strengthens the union's role as a global human rights defender by enabling it to take restrictive measures against legal and natural persons involved in serious human rights violations worldwide. the list of specific serious human rights violations includes, inter alia, violations related to sexual and gender-based violence. it is important that member states interpret and apply sanctions in a uniform manner and that they comply with all relevant council decisions in this regard.
in writing. according to the eu treaties, the union's objective is to strengthen and support democracy, the rule of law, human rights and the principles of international law. however, this is a buzzword without the right tools to promote these goals. by imposing sanctions on members of administrations that violate human rights, the eu is able to promote its values and demonstrate that the eu does not tolerate the trampling of human rights, the rule of law and democracy. but the work is not yet done. the escape system is named after sergei magnitsky, who died in obscure circumstances in prison after investigating corruption in the russian government. however, at present, corruption is not a ground for sanctions. corruption is a major threat to the rule of law and it would be important that in the future, persons guilty of corruption could also be placed on a sanctions list. the role of the parliament in the preparation of sanctions should also be strengthened. furthermore, it should be important for the effectiveness of sanctions to ensure that the sanctions for infringements of sanctions are effective. the commission should therefore actively monitor that sanctions are not circumvented through various loopholes and that the sanctions achieve the objectives set for them. when sanctions are effective and proportionate, the mere fact of being deterred can prevent human rights violations.
the debate on the council and commission statements on the situation in tigray, ethiopia (2021/2778 (rsp)) will continue.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, for the past eight months, we have been following with concern the situation in ethiopia. the messages sent by the european union have been clear from the start. we have clearly condemned the situation and we have made additional efforts together with international partners, namely the united states, to put a halt to the violence in tigray. the recent offensive of the tigray defence forces and the fall of several towns, including mekelle, has changed the landscape in the tigray region with the ethiopian national defence forces moving out of the region. as far as we know, fighting still continues, albeit at a smaller level. in continuing their offensive, the tigray defence forces are meeting only low resistance. eritrean forces still seem to be present in the north and the amhara militia is controlling western tigray. we welcome the unilateral humanitarian ceasefire declared by the government as a step in the right direction, but it needs to be consolidated and accompanied by efforts from all parties to protect civilians and get humanitarian assistance in. the parties to the conflict have responsibilities also in these circumstances. we are assessing the situation on the ground. the four priorities that the eu has identified from the start of the crisis remain: first, to secure humanitarian access; second, to call all parties to protect civilians and to avoid further human rights violations; third, to ensure the withdrawal of eritrean troops from tigray; and, fourth, to establish a political dialogue for a sustainable solution. humanitarian access and the provision of humanitarian assistance remain the first priority: 91% of the population is in urgent need of assistance and 900 000 people face famine. there are worrying reports indicating a possible blockage of humanitarian deliveries. in order to protect civilians, we urgently need a full cessation of hostilities accepted by all parties. ethiopian troops have left most of tigray, but all parties must ensure the protection of civilians and assist the population. human rights abuses need to cease and also need to be investigated. we welcome the ongoing joint investigation by the office of the high commissioner on human rights and the ethiopian human rights commission. yesterday, the eu tabled a resolution in the human rights council to be sure that the high commissioner will be able to brief the human rights council accordingly. eritrean leaders and eritrean defence forces were asked to leave tigray. our leaders repeated that appeal in the european council on 25 june. asmara tells us that the eritrean defence forces are now at the eritrean—ethiopian border and do not engage in fighting unless provoked by the tigray people’s liberation front (tplf). what we see is that fighting has reduced in intensity, possibly an indication that the eritrean defence forces (edf) have indeed withdrawn from most of tigray. finally, we need a political solution through an inclusive dialogue organised by the ethiopian government in the whole of the country. the eu is ready to contribute to such a dialogue to preserve ethiopia’s integrity and unity. the country has just held federal and regional elections, which were overall peaceful and well organised. organising an inclusive national dialogue should be the next step. the foreign affairs council has discussed the situation regularly, notably in march, adopting conclusions, and in june. next week, on 12 july, we will come back to the matter. as i said, at its recent meetings the european council also addressed the issue. it condemned the ongoing atrocity, ethnic—based and sexual violence and other human rights violations in tigray, and welcomed the ongoing investigations to bring accountability and justice. it called for an immediate cessation of hostilities and impeded humanitarian access to all areas and, as i recalled before, the immediate withdrawal of eritrean forces. finally, it also reiterated the commitment of the eu and member states to support ethiopia in the implementation of democratic reform and reconciliation efforts.
member of the commission. – mr president, eight months into the conflict the european union remains extremely concerned at the situation in tigray. today, over five million children, women and men are in need of emergency assistance, with roughly two million people internally displaced. famine is now a reality in tigray. we are estimating that up to 900 000 civilians are facing famine conditions throughout tigray. another one million are one step below famine. this famine is entirely man—made and is a disgrace to those who are responsible for it. to avoid the loss of thousands of lives, urgent humanitarian assistance must be delivered now. however, after the declaration of the recent unilateral ceasefire by the ethiopian authorities, tigray once again has been cut from the external world. its regional borders have been closed. essential infrastructure for supply delivery has been damaged. there is an embargo on flights to tigray. internet and telecommunications have been cut. telecommunication outlets that were essential to humanitarian operators have been confiscated. humanitarians are prevented from entering tigray and from delivering much—needed assistance. the voices of millions are being silenced. it is not a ceasefire: it is a siege, and starvation is used as a weapon of war. unspeakable atrocities continue also to be reported, with credible allegations of serious violations of international humanitarian law, human rights law and international refugee law. these include armed forces subjecting women and girls to sexual violence and rape, extrajudicial killings of civilians, starvation used as a method of war, deportation of eritrean refugees back to eritrea, looting and the deliberate destruction of livelihoods like crops and livestock. deliberate denial of humanitarian actions by armed forces, forced relocation and destruction and looting of health facilities. what has been happening may amount to war crimes and crimes against humanity. since the beginning of the crisis, with high representative borrell we have issued a number of statements on the situation in ethiopia. i was myself in addis in december and then again in april, and we are in contact with all our partners on the ground. we continue to call for additional efforts by all parties to cease hostilities, protect civilians and provide unfettered humanitarian access to avert a major humanitarian catastrophe. and eritrean troops must withdraw from all of tigray. to avoid a humanitarian catastrophe, to preserve core eu values, we must act directly and indirectly, quickly and robustly. i will participate with high representative borrell and commissioner urpilainen in the next foreign affairs council to this end. i will appeal for a consensus amongst our member states in line with our consistent efforts to reach a concerted approach over the last months. our priorities are very clear. first, we need to engage with the parties to the conflict and agree on the mechanism to facilitate and secure aid operations in areas controlled by the tigrayan forces. ethiopian authorities notably shall be reminded that impartial humanitarian activities do not constitute in any way support to the enemy or to terrorism. tigray’s borders must be opened to humanitarian relief operations. relief actors need to be able to carry out their work independently, freely and in safety at all times. second, the protection of civilians caught in the tigray conflict is at the heart of our preoccupations. we must not tolerate these serious violations of human rights, international refugee and humanitarian law. i am strongly convinced that this is an existential question for our common foreign policy. the eu continues to support civilians affected by the conflict in ethiopia and beyond through our humanitarian response efforts. together with our member states, we have mobilised almost eur 118 million in assistance to ethiopian refugees living in neighbouring sudan. my colleague, commissioner urpilainen, has also acted swiftly by deciding to postpone budget support disbursements last december, and she is exploring further options on the way ahead. it is clear that the conditions that we have spelled out in a clear way need to be fulfilled before we can resume our financing and programming of our cooperation assistance. the european union has also called upon neighbouring leaders and like—minded partners to step up their efforts in support of the tigrayan people and to engage more actively to find a solution to the conflict. we support the joint investigation by the office of the un high commissioner for human rights and the ethiopian commission for human rights. we are ready to take concrete steps with international partners in order to achieve an end to hostilities in tigray and the resumption of a national dialogue. this will be necessary if we are to see a permanent ceasefire to the conflict and find a long—lasting solution to the situation in ethiopia. in conclusion, i wish to thank you for having facilitated this important debate, and i am looking forward to hearing your views and opinions.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i’m glad to see that apparently there’s broad consensus in the analysis, both from the council, the commission, and i assume also from us here in parliament, when we assess the situation in ethiopia. i think it is a high need to get our act together and to push towards those who are responsible on the ground allowing, in the first place, the access of humanitarian assistance. i think what has been described – that is a ceasefire since the 28 june and that the troops have to withdraw and talks have to start – is positive to note. that is right, but the most urgent thing now is to get the eu humanitarian aid to the millions of people who are internally displaced and who are exposed to immediate famine. accordingly, i think one thing that is really doable is to ask the responsible people in addis to allow the airports to be used, because i think that is the access that is possible. if bridges are destroyed and there is no road access, at least the airports must be made available. there should be no such thing as a flying prohibition. that is, i think, what we have to concentrate on. we also call for a un—mandated, independent, transparent and impartial international investigation on the alleged war crimes, which is indispensable to start a process of national reconciliation.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, thank you for being here with us, because the problem in tigray is indeed a dramatic one. i hope that this debate in the european parliament will bring a balanced perspective that goes beyond misinformation, because there is a lot of misinformation about this conflict, and beyond a simplistic criticism of the current government, but taking into account a broader historical perspective of ethiopia, especially with regard to the tigray people's liberation front. we must ensure that the european union takes a clear and reasoned position on the situation in ethiopia. the humanitarian crisis in the tigray region has reached a critical point. rights groups have reported large-scale massacres, widespread sexual violence, indiscriminate bombings, looting. and what do we know exactly? who does? in addition, the united nations warns of a famine affecting at least 350,000 people. commissioner, i think that in this conflict, the european union should be called upon to set up a thorough international investigation into the root causes of the problem in ethiopia, in order to find out exactly who is doing what. and then, secondly, compared to the famine that we are currently witnessing, which can affect, as i told you, 350,000 people, and especially since there have been three deaths of msf employees who add to the already long list of humanitarians who have lost their lives in tigray since november 4, 2020: we must do everything we can to ensure that all parties to the conflict in tigray respect international law and ensure free and safe access for humanitarian actors. we must therefore help the people of ethiopia, particularly in tigray, from a humanitarian point of view, because the situation is very serious. clarity, a better understanding of who is doing what, and humanitarian aid for the suffering people.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, minister, i would like to thank you for your work. the hunting of young people, forced displacement, murder, rape, and kidnapping are just some of the actions targeting the tigrayan ethnic group in northern ethiopia. ninety percent of the people in tigray are displaced. government troops and eritrean forces supporting them have attacked women and children, as well as aid workers, priests and nuns who assist them. there are massacres and persecutions every day. the ceasefire has not brought any results. despite the cessation of hostilities, attacks and actions targeting one ethnic group continue. moreover, according to missionaries from aid to the church in need, humanitarian aid, instead of reaching the most needy, is limited and has become a tool of pressure on the christian minority in tigray. in a country where nearly two thirds of the population live on less than a dollar a day, raging war brings enormous suffering and shortages of food and sanitation. as the international community, and i agree with you, commissioner, we must commit ourselves as soon as possible to stabilising the situation and continuing to send independent humanitarian aid. the missionaries who are on the ground are doing a phenomenal job of helping those who are in need every day, despite the dangers. i would like to thank them and all the aid workers from the bottom of my heart.
mr. chairman, please! the parliamentary elections in ethiopia were supposed to be the first free elections in the country's history and to bring peace. meanwhile, in tigray, a province in northern ethiopia, war continues and a gigantic humanitarian catastrophe is taking place. the civil war has been ongoing since november 2020, when the ethiopian government sent federal troops to fight the tigray people's liberation front. there are reports that the ethiopian government has blocked humanitarian aid to the province. we hear of the shooting and execution of civilians, of ethnic cleansing, of the destruction of property, cultural heritage and religious sites. as the un agencies have warned, the government has deliberately caused famine to commit genocide against the tigrayans. already, 4 million people are at risk of hunger or malnutrition. three hundred and fifty thousand, and according to some reports as many as 900,000, are in danger of starvation. it is tragic that ethiopia's prime minister abiy ahmed ali, a nobel peace prize winner, is responsible for the suffering and death of his own citizens whom he is supposed to protect. the international community must act swiftly and decisively. the union's ineffective foreign policy contributes to the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people. after all, we know the ethiopians are desperate for support.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, even today, the 1951 geneva convention provides the most comprehensive definition of refugee status and the rights of refugees. the commissioner is also right about providing fundamental principles of non-discrimination, non—penalisation and non-refoulement. some years ago, the former supreme allied commander europe, philip breedlove, stated before congress that russia and assad deliberately weaponised refugees to destabilise the west. today we have the next crisis. the usurper, alexander lukashenko, under the instigation of russia, tries to destabilise lithuania, the eu and nato territory. we have to remember this. we have to show solidarity.
for the left group. (opening without a microphone) ...and that is of course something to celebrate. it was when we promised each other we'd provide protection, because the one who runs away has no choice. but the one who either closes its borders or opens its door, it has a choice. and with the geneva convention, we promised each other that anyone who is persecuted, anyone who has to leave to seek refuge, that person will be given a safe haven. a great promise we made to each other and to which the eu as an institution is bound. that is why i find it so terrible to see that we have forces today that are trying to compete in undermining the geneva convention, in destroying one of the most important multilateral human rights instruments that we have. we have chain pushbacks from slovenia to croatia to bosnia-herzegovina that need to be stopped. we have pullbacks in libya that need to be stopped. we have pushbacks even from frontex, our own agency. it has to stop if we're going to honor the geneva convention. my colleagues have said that there are 80 million refugees, and here we are arguing about a few thousand. that's what happens when racists and those who conform to them are allowed to rule and command. it is time to stand up for the geneva convention, the rules that are binding, and also to stand up for its spirit. it means we're defending people, not borders. it means that we share the responsibility of providing protection for those seeking asylum in the eu. it means that we are reaching out and we are saving lives, in the mediterranean and wherever it is needed. it means we open our borders to anyone seeking protection. that's sweden, that's europe, that's what we're going to have.
madam president, it is the height of hypocrisy for the european union, governments and the european parliament to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the geneva convention by deliberately trampling on it and burying it. on the basis of the reactionary new pact on migration and asylum of the european union, the greek government is making law by intensifying repression, deportations, strengthening the role of frontex as a police force, with pushbacks in the aegean, with the challenge of sovereign rights, with asylum procedures that remove even the basic rights of asylum seekers. the european union is also taking steps to ensure that the european union's citizens are not forced to leave their homes. the european union sees the refugee problem as a tool of geopolitical competition, which leads to wars and perpetuates the refugee crisis. it is criticized for providing cheap exploited workers and for the penetration of its groups into markets. we demand asylum procedures in the countries of actual destination in accordance with the geneva convention. no structure of months of confinement. substantial protection for recognised refugees wishing to remain in greece. the european union is a party to the treaty of rome and to the treaty of rome. the people must clash and overthrow the rotten system that generates wars, exploitation, poverty and refugees: capitalism.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all honourable members for this solemn debate. the refugee convention is part of our history, of our treaty, and at the heart of our values and our union. after 70 years, the convention remains as relevant as ever before. as politicians, it’s not enough for us to say nice words. we must commemorate by taking action, and we must act and apply the principles of the convention because the need is still high and because we have the power to make a difference. we commemorate by action, by advancing on the pact, which is the best way to make sure refugees can exercise their right and that we have a european response to refugee situations, and by stepping up on resettlement. this friday, i will hold the high—level forum on resettlement. i have brought together a global coalition of partners on resettlement – the eu, canada, the united states, the unhcr – for the very first time. our goal is to show global leadership on resettlement and to increase pledges, providing safe journeys to a welcome home. that is how we best celebrate the refugee convention.
the chairman of the council. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i thank you for your speeches, which have highlighted the importance of the geneva convention throughout the world, including, of course, the european union. i can assure you that the european union and its member states are aware of the importance of safeguarding the right to asylum and the principle of non-refoulement, as enshrined in this convention and also in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. these fundamental principles must continue to be applied worldwide and to provide refuge and protection and to protect the physical integrity of persons in need of international protection or fleeing war, conflict or persecution. as you have seen, progress in this area is difficult to achieve in the european union. however, we must highlight important achievements such as the recent agreement to set up an asylum agency. the recent european council decisions have paid particular attention to the issue of migration. the conclusions call for enhanced cooperation with countries of origin and transit on the basis of mutually beneficial partnerships. member states invited the commission and the european external action service to prepare action plans for priority partner countries by autumn. i can assure you that the slovenian presidency will continue the work begun by its predecessors in the pact on migration and asylum, both in the legislative area and in the external dimension of migration.
this conversation is over. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. the right to seek asylum is a fundamental human right guaranteed by the 1951 refugee convention. it is based on fundamental humanitarian values and is the cornerstone of eu asylum law. its principles, such as the principle of non-refoulement, have become part of customary international law, which means that countries that are not parties to the convention are obliged to comply with it. in the context of ongoing wars, conflicts and persecution, and record displacement, it has effectively protected the rights and lives of refugees for over seven decades. however, i do not agree that it is as relevant today as it was in 1951. one of the factors driving millions of people to migrate is the increasing climate change. but there is no category of climate refugees in international law. there is therefore a clear legal loophole that prevents the protection of this group of refugees. the definition of refugee in the 1951 convention does not apply to people displaced for environmental reasons. legally, we are not prepared for the coming waves of migrants. i therefore call for this anniversary to be an incentive to create and recognise an international definition of climate refugee, which will allow for the adoption of legislation to facilitate the procedure for granting refugee status to those who are fleeing, among other things, rising water levels.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the fund shall cover the common asylum policy, the development of legal migration in line with the economic and social needs of the member states, the promotion of effective integration and social inclusion of third-country nationals and the fight against illegal migration. poland supported in the negotiations proposals on migration management which aim to reduce the uncontrolled flow of migrants, combat secondary movements by sealing asylum procedures and strengthening sanctions against irregular migrants, and are linked to border management including return policy. we are not opposed to the creation of a uniform procedure for resettlement in the european union, but only if the member states participate voluntarily in the proposed actions. poland maintains its objection to the migration management proposals which would be based on the forced relocation mechanism. poland considers that the key to creating lasting solutions that ensure the stabilisation of the migration situation and resilience to possible future crisis situations is above all the strengthening and protection of the external borders and activities outside the union in the countries of origin and transit of migrants. we must help these unfortunates, but where the problem is, in their own countries.
madam president! once and for all, we must put an end to the tragic images of migrants drowning trying to get to europe just because someone promised them a future. to do that, we need to seal borders, strengthen cooperation between countries, and enact tough laws to return illegal immigrants, while also providing legal pathways for migration into european union countries. the asylum and migration fund is intended to achieve this objective. for the period 2021-2027, it will be close to eur 10 billion. the thematic linkage of the fund is also enhanced. there are additional opportunities for countries particularly affected by illegal migration. indeed, poland has also been carrying out projects in greece, helping through missionary outposts to reduce this enormous amount of suffering. and this is an important tool, but i'm also pleased, as a former minister of humanitarian affairs, that after long negotiations, we were finally able to agree to allocate over 36% for humanitarian aid in emergencies, especially humanitarian disasters. it's important that we accept that and take note.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. almost 70 years ago, the international community was mature enough to see refugees as people fleeing persecution and death. the same as everyone else: the right to live, to live free from hunger and fear. today, as the european union, we are creating the asylum, migration and integration fund, a fund to help those who have been forced to leave their homes, their communities, for various reasons: war, catastrophic climate change, economic situation. we take the humanities test because we remember that everyone is from somewhere. the history of this continent is the history of migration, the history of multiculturalism, of multiethnicity. my silesia is also an example. and this is our future, too. let us not fear this future, because diversity is a value, it is a wealth that allows us to grow.
in writing. the regulation establishing the asylum, migration and integration fund for the period 2021-2027 aims to contribute to the effective management of migration flows. it is agreed that it is necessary to reduce the uncontrolled flow of migrants, to combat secondary movements by sealing asylum procedures, to strengthen sanctions against illegal migrants and to seal the return policy. it would be desirable to create a uniform procedure for resettlement in the eu, but subject to the voluntary participation of member states in the proposed actions. on the other hand, migration management systems that rely on the relocation mechanism of migrants cannot be accepted. the key to creating lasting solutions to stabilise the migration situation and to ensure resilience to possible future crises lies above all in strengthening the protection of the external borders and in actions outside the union, in the countries of origin and transit of migrants. the border protection issue is covered by the integrated border management fund for the period 2021-2027. however, the basis for the proposed allocation of funds under the financial support instrument for border and visa management established under the fund is unclear. the low allocation of funds to countries such as poland may risk making the eu's external border less effective and underperforming.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the visa information system must be and is a response to the changing challenges of migration and security in the european union, but one of the most important aspects of cooperation between member states within this system must be trust. my experience as a former minister of the interior and administration suggests that this is not always the case. i remember talking to my colleagues, fellow interior ministers, when we exchanged comments about the questioning of decisions taken by the services (anti-terrorism services, anti-money laundering services) and there were situations where other member states questioned decisions taken within the schengen information system. even this place, the european parliament, has witnessed an incident where people who were suspected of criminal activity by the services of another country were photographed. there can be no hypothetical situation where a gun dealer, a drug dealer disguised as an ngo or a philanthropist would be able to enjoy the trust of another member state. the servants know what they're doing. we're a community that should be built on trust. the police, the special services really know what they're doing.
madam president! there's a lot of lofty, beautiful words that have been said here. the president and the council have spoken about this: equality, values, mutual respect. but what values and respect are involved? these values and this respect are only relevant when they concern a left-liberal worldview, ideology. you think conservative europeans don't have a say. on what basis do you use the phrases 'orbán's regime' and 'the brown europe being built by the conservatives'? what is this, anyway? why is there no response? you talk about how every european should be protected by the european union, should have the same rights, that the union should take care of them. we have been asking for a long time that this house and the european commission finally say stop the construction of nord stream 2, because it threatens the security of the europeans of central and eastern europe. what's the matter? and nothing because there's a big business out there that you're supporting. hypocrisy and deceit.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the governments in poland and hungary want to build a brown coalition, authoritarianism, dictatorship, racism, persecution of lgbt people, persecution of women. what do you want me to do? the best thing to do is to impose sanctions and have another debate. or he could call again to starve poland and hungary. where's the boundary of absurd? what's the point of appealing to elementary honesty and truth in this room? what's the point of reminding us that we, the poles, have experienced hunger and starvation to death. i invite you to the german death camp auschwitz birkenau, where the starvation bunker where polish priest maximilian kolbe was starved to death is located. what's the point of reminding you that when jews were burned at the stake and persecuted in spain, france and germany, they found refuge and safety in poland. in yiddish, polin means "rest here" or "rest here safely". what's the point of reminding you that in poland homosexuality was never punished, and polish women were among the first women in the world to have the right to vote. polish soldiers saved europe from the bolshevik onslaught and shed blood on all fronts of world war ii, and then you put poland in yalta and potsdam under soviet occupation for decades, depriving us of the chance for economic and economic development. you talk about tolerance and respect, but if the conservative party comes to power, tolerance and respect are immediately thrown out. but whether you like it or not, poland and hungary are an integral part of europe. we are and will be in europe because no one has given the left the right to decide who is european. the governments in poland and hungary have a strong democratic mandate, i stress, a democratic mandate, to implement their agenda, including judicial reform and to protect the true values, those of the old and new testaments, of roman law, of greek philosophy, not of leftist babble.
mr. chairman, please! yes, europe is tired of what kaczynski and orbán are doing, tired of the politics of hatred, intolerance and discrimination. europe is sick of destroying what is the foundation of a democratic state. mr brudziński, please do not invoke polish tradition, because polish tradition is tolerance, it is respect for freedom, it is respect for another person, our neighbor - it is our christian tradition. i want to use the words of donald tusk, who recently returned to polish politics, because he said directly, "we are not used to this". the poles are not used to it and europe cannot get used to it. and we'll deal with it as poles. but i ask you very much from this place to use the article 7 procedures against the law and justice government, not poland, because it is the law and justice government that is forming a brown coalition with the heirs of those very worst ideas in europe that have done so much evil. you're joining the clubs of putin's friends enemies of democratic poland and a united europe. i promise you one thing from this place, the poles will solve this problem in poland. we will remove the word "poland" from the article 7 procedure if you do not change your ways.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the situation in hungary shows what happens when we are passive and neglectful. as orbán walked through the european salons, the demons of homophobia were awakening in hungary. i'm not going to let you do this. you say you are acting, and at the same time our friends in hungary are victims of yet another human rights violation. we know that article 7 doesn't work, which is why we're asking for a conditional mechanism. we appeal to you, we beg you: act! start defending democracy and human rights! what else has to happen before you say enough? where is ursula von der leyen when people lose their rights, when their dignity is violated, when they can only dream of freedom? i'm not going to let you do this. the new commission will soon be two years old, and hungary is getting worse by the day.
mr. chairman, please! well, you're pretending as usual that this is a discussion about tolerance for lgbt people. meanwhile, as you know, there is less violence against lgbt people in poland than in your countries. and your statistics show it. but you're deliberately lying so people don't know what's really going on. and the point is, we believe there are two genders. and you think there's 250 or so. biology is on our side. you think it's a scandal. we want to ban the suggestion to children that they can change their gender. you want to promote it. after all, we don't want to see the early sexualization of children in schools, because for catholics, true love is about so much more than lust. the effects of your anti-values are evident: the increasing number of broken families, loneliness, sexual violence. you throw away the knowledge, the experience, the legacy of generations and trade it for your political beliefs. it's exactly what marx and engels said, that in order to build a new reality, you have to destroy traditional values and the traditional family. you're following the exact same path that led to the tragedy in europe. you still think it's a violation of human rights to defend the values on which schuman built europe. shame on you.
mr president i think it is important that at least once in the debate, the title of the law should be mentioned, which is: "strict action against pedophilia and amendments to certain laws to protect children". it's the only way to have a peaceful discussion of the subject. instead of political hysteria, instead of electoral propaganda, let's talk about - or at least try to - the facts. the best interests of the child are paramount and parents have the right to raise their children in accordance with their own convictions, as confirmed by the charter of fundamental rights. parental choice is the key to a child's sexuality, and no one can force a parent to give their child sexuality without their consent if the parent has not accepted it. mathematics requires a teacher's certificate, and we can't trust activists with any kind of sex education for children, one way or another. for example, point 1 of the report is simply not true. the hungarian minister of justice, given a deadline of one week, submitted his report in time. it's just not literally true what it says. my fellow members, allow me to ask you just one question. i don't want an answer. you guys actually read the legislation? because in that text, the vast majority of what's being said here is simply unreadable. i'm asking you to do it afterwards. if the law were really going to attack gay rights, i'd be the first person to stand up to it.
mr. chairman, please! i'm polish. i'm gay, you know. my country is run by a president who thinks people like me are not people, they're an ideology. it's been 20 years since i've been with my partner. in my country, we call this the rainbow plague. every day when my partner leaves the house, i fear that he will be met with violence, violence that will be met with by my friends, my acquaintances, my loved ones. i live in a country where 70 percent of young people, lgbt people, think about suicide. i live in poland, my homeland, where 30% of the country is a lgbt-free zone. how is my life different from yours? what am i worse at? we can't afford to be indifferent. we can't be indifferent, because from hate speech, from statements like this, to hate crimes, it's a very short path. mr. brudzinski mentioned the concentration camps. concentration camps were created because someone once failed to react in time. commissioner, i'm asking you, before it's too late, to act. the clock is ticking.
mr president, madam commissioner, i want to support the views of those colleagues who have clearly described the problems of the hungarian law, which seriously harms the rights of sexual minorities. the law is only a symbolic attack on the rule of law, but in fact, as has been said here, it will significantly interfere with the lives of young people who are searching for their sexual identity, who may find that they are different from the majority and instead of receiving support from society to get information, they will fear criminalization and punishment. the law in practice can cause really great harm and it should be rejected. i was disappointed by the speeches by both the commission and the council, because in the context of this european debate we have heard all that has been done. but i think it will be very sensitive and important and everyone in europe will be watching how this hungarian law is finally repealed or how long this law will remain and we will witness how weak the european commission and the european union in general is. and i would urge the european commission and the council not to underestimate this problem, it is not just a problem of hungary. if we do nothing, or if we only take administrative steps and this law remains in force and effective, it will be a signal for all populists in europe to attack sexual minorities. let me give you an example from the czech republic. you know, commissioner, czech president miloš zeman said that transgender people are repulsive to him, and this is another example of how populists today attack sexual minorities in europe. please, please, please.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the community is what we call ourselves. it is time to remind those who are deliberately seeking to break up the union of the meaning of this word. the community is voluntary, and if you don't want to be in it, don't destroy it, just get out. a community is one in which all its members strive to observe the established and self-evident principles of the union. do not be like a drunk driver who feels that his rules of the road do not apply because he is putting himself and others at risk. the community needs to grow. there is no going back to the time when the union was just a free trade area, which will require a new anti-union alliance of nationalist parties. you really don't want subsidies for farmers, aid for poorer regions? do you really want to deal with the next pandemic, climate catastrophe, putin and china on your own? that is why we have agreed to common rules and that they are to be enforced by the european institutions, that is, by our common institutions and courts. our european strength is the human rights of every human being, and the great shame is the times when they were not respected. our strength is in our principles and our cooperation, because without it, our family is broken. this is putin's agenda and a denial of our common interests and values. nazism and its effects did not fall from the sky, but stumbled in small steps. commissioner, council, time to move!
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! it is good that covid-19 certificates are working in all the countries of the community. it is good that member states refrain from imposing additional restrictions and prohibitions on the free movement of certificate holders, unless they are necessary and proportionate to protect public health in response to the covid-19 pandemic. a well-functioning digital certificate system helps to restore civil liberties and supports jobs, for example in the travel and tourism sector. unfortunately, we are hearing more and more about illegal procedures related to the forgery of digital certificates. therefore, it is urgent to create a tool that effectively prevents the forgery of certificates, because there are too many people willing to obtain them illegally. so the question is, commissioner, what are you going to do about it? and another important question for europeans: when and if you intend to take action to make testing free of charge, as has been mentioned many times here. in the face of new mutations, we should promote vaccination and encourage people to get vaccinated so that as many people as possible can enjoy health, for the safety of all of us.
mr president, commissioner, the european certificate has been operational since last thursday. in itself and you said how it's already a victory, an almost unexpected success. but you also said that it is now up to the member states to play their part. and when i say play the game, of course, we mean play collectively. many of the issues have already been addressed, and i agree with them. what i wanted to talk to you about this afternoon is the recognition of third country certificates. we have learned, and you have also confirmed, that the swiss certificate will be certified on friday or monday. what about everyone else? the united kingdom, japan, israel, all these third countries with which we have strong ties. what about this principle of mutual recognition which we hold dear and the removal of barriers to free movement? the two weeks of mandatory leave from the schengen area, the serological tests, which are still very heavy... the union reopened its borders to the united states three weeks ago. the reverse is still not true and it is not just tourists who are affected: it is families, spouses, children, grandchildren who, for some, have not seen their loved ones for 17 months. where are you with your contacts with the joe biden administration? when is this gonna move?
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i think the commissioner's optimism is fading with each performance. it's been a year and a half since the pandemic. we're not getting enough vaccines, and we're in danger of another epidemic. we have no medicine to treat our citizens. i would also like to remind you of the chaos that has been created by the introduction of vaccines in the member states. the covid passport was supposed to be a value-add, and it's still dividing, it's still unfair, and it's still excluding, because we have a free vaccine, we don't have a free test, we don't have a free doctor's visit, and we don't have a free test that will confirm that we're cured. at the same time, how do citizens and owners of guesthouses in italy, greece, poland, hungary verify these applications? how is this monitored? how do we prevent the big black market that is already in place when we apply for this green certificate?
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu digital covid certificate has already played an important role in enabling more people to meet their loved ones after a difficult time of the pandemic. it is time for member states to integrate testing into the covid certificate, and it is also time to ease restrictions when it can now be done safely. it is also time for the commission to ensure that the £1 billion allocated to free testing goes to those most in need. it is now about employees who have to cross borders and about all those who have not been able to meet their relatives for a long time because it is so expensive to get tested. no one should be discriminated against by expensive tests. this is of course a central priority for us social democrats. i would like to conclude by asking the commission what the conditions are for including antibodies in the covid certificate. how is it going and when can we expect such a proposal?
mr president, allow me to make a few comments. i personally consider the eu covid digital certificates a successful project. looking at the differences of opinion between the member states at the start of the negotiations on this instrument and at the end, i think we have reached the maximum possible. i would also like to see that integration be even more intensive with this instrument. but as a political realist, i'm aware that it was probably not possible to achieve that. so the first thing i would say is that it is a success, but at the same time we must do everything to ensure that this instrument is not profaned in the eyes of our citizens, that it really fulfils what we put into it. and it is up to the commission to really check the application of the certificate, how it is approached by individual member states and how it will work in practice. i have heard from some member states and from my own country, the czech republic, a debate on whether or not to add other things, other applications. and i warn you, this could put a damper on all of this and potentially jeopardize the project as a whole. i am the one who is very passionate about increased vaccination, and i am concerned to see that recently the interest in getting vaccinated in europe has been declining. and that is why, in the debate on whether to test or vaccinate, i personally prefer more vaccination and that is where the commission should focus its attention. instead of having a debate about whether the tests will be free, we should have a debate about how to vaccinate even more in the future, how to campaign to convince more europeans that it's better to be vaccinated than to be tested only for a short time.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the digital covid certificate project can only be fully realised when we all get vaccinated. i know it sounds obvious, but i think it's often forgotten. and the vaccination rate in the union is far too low. disinformation and anti-vaccine movements are making matters worse. we, the public, have a great responsibility to persuade and encourage vaccination. and unfortunately, there are those who avoid needles to please voters. we also can't forget about people who would like to get vaccinated, but just can't, like my mom, who is in a critical condition in the hospital right now. for her, the virus would be deadly. let's think about the others. let's not be selfish. think of the elderly and those with other illnesses. and finally, think about the industries that are still being held back by our phobias.
in writing. at the plenary session in strasbourg on 5-9 july, during the debate on the state of play of the implementation of the eu digital covid certificate, the european commission welcomed the extremely rapid process of agreeing the regulation, stressing that the regulation entered into force on 1 july 2021 and the certificate itself will be valid in all eu member states and will help to coordinate the removal of existing restrictions due to the pandemic. the commission has also provided information on the measures taken to ensure the effective implementation of the union's action plan for the control of the spread of the novel coronavirus in the union. however, before preparing a preliminary assessment, it is worth asking whether the commission has or is preparing an appropriate catalogue of indicators or criteria which it intends to take into account in assessing the impact of the introduction of the certificate, on the basis of which an early ex post assessment of the measures introduced will be possible. what is the commission's intention to consult with the member states on the possible mentioned methodological set of assessment criteria indicators that may be taken into account in the preparation of the overall assessment of the certificate? how does the commission intend to take into account the voice of the member states in the methodological development of the covid assessment criterion and will the process of the link technology and the gateway also be assessed?
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. patient safety and access to medicines are two key words that open up the discussion about emergency response and the appropriate response to a public health emergency. i support those union solutions that can make a real contribution to a higher level of human health protection by strengthening the union's response capacity. this includes the report we're discussing today on the european medicines agency. in addition to the extension of the ecdc's mandate and the updating of the regulations on serious cross-border health threats, the reinforcement of the ema's mandate must include the making of concrete efforts and the provision of real financial support so that each component of the safety system can meet the requirements of adapting to the new regulations and not be left behind. the real contribution of eu funds should be provided at an early stage to ensure that there are supportive rather than exclusionary measures (read penalties) in the event of non-compliance with ambitious standards for the european data space, the functionality of monitoring systems, the availability of medicinal products and, finally, the scope of clinical trial advice. i thank the rapporteur and all my colleagues for the good cooperation they have shown in this report.
ladies and gentlemen! fellow workers! i'm not going to let you down. the pandemic has shown us our strengths, but it has also exposed our weaknesses. the european medicines agency must become the most effective and efficient post-pandemic office in europe. the european medicines agency must be fully aware of the potential shortages of medicines, because when there are shortages, people die. and we're here to serve the people. but monitoring and preventing drug shortages is not all, commissioner. i think we should try to take the challenge. i spent four years as the minister of health in poland, leading price negotiations with pharmaceutical companies on drug prices. i think we need to take on the challenge of creating a list of critical medicines, critical to the health and lives of our patients. and start negotiating with the companies about maximum prices. it cannot be that in one part of europe, patients have access to this medicine because it is well-marketed and they can afford it, and in another part of europe, they don't. we should create a list of critical medicines for which we should, as the european commission, as parliament, guarantee a minimum price to our citizens. it's to keep the patients safe. but it's not just critical medication. i think it's also about innovative drugs, new drugs coming to market that give a chance of survival, for example, to cancer patients. we need to negotiate prices and availability together, or we'll be watching patients fight for their lives on social media for years to come, raising money for innovative medicines.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur. her high personal culture made it possible for us to have very substantive conversations about very difficult matters. i want to point out the elements where we have remained in our positions, where we cannot agree absolutely. first, in many places the 8th general plan is too detailed. it does not set directions, but it deals with very specific solutions, such as introducing taxonomy records into this general plan. this is a separate document, let's let it function separately. it is also an interference with the treaties, it allows the commission or it orders the commission to interfere with the budgets of the member states. we cannot accept that. but he's also aggressive in many ways. we have talked about the fact that when citizens are with us, we will be able to achieve the right objectives that the rapporteur has spoken about here, but we cannot tell the citizens of europe, the poles and the poles, that by 2025 we must close all energy-intensive plants and enterprises, because that is what we say, by banning subsidies by 2025. finally, what we really care about: the amendment that says that everything should be clear and transparent. so the idea was to see how much money we've spent, how much we need to spend, and whether that money is being spent efficiently.
mr. chairman, please! the eighth environment programme, which runs until 2030, aims to accelerate the transition to a climate-neutral, resource-efficient, clean and circular economy in a fair and socially inclusive manner and to achieve the environmental objectives of the un 2030 agenda and its sustainable development goals. while this seems a legitimate aim, the attempt to include in the report the need to phase out all subsidies for fossil fuels at eu, national, regional and local level by 2025 at the latest makes the report unacceptable from the point of view of countries such as poland, where fossil fuels are a large part of the energy mix today and gas is set to be a bridge to the wider use of renewable energy sources in the future in the coming years. that is why i shall vote against the solutions contained in the report.
mr. chairman, please! taking care of the environment for the benefit of future generations is our duty and our great responsibility - we all agree. however, this 8th eu environment programme to 2030, which sets very ambitious targets for good reason, needs to be improved, clarified and supplemented in many respects. because in that form, he's not going to be able to do his job. the important thing is the issue of biodiversity, which is our heritage. only by protecting it will future generations be able to enjoy the wealth of nature. the lack of consistency in the document with regard to forests and the forestry sector requires supplementation. it is important to promote multifunctional and sustainable forest management, to maintain a balance between natural, social and economic functions, and to use this potential to achieve environmental and climate objectives and ambitions. i would also point out that the priority objectives should be supplemented directly by waste management issues and that the definitions should be clear and very precise. and that's just what's missing. the lack of precise indicators is also a major concern, as they are not sufficient to develop a comprehensive monitoring framework for the programme. when we make regulations, we must be mindful of their effectiveness and proper application, because regulations with loopholes offer a great opportunity for over-interpretation and excessive sanctions by the institutions monitoring their implementation.
mr. chairman, please! well, ladies and gentlemen, green policy is important. but it is very important that green does not quickly turn into a black policy, full of poverty, unemployment. let me give you an example from poland. well, there are only three stable sources of energy: gas, atomic and coal. and you, in poland, say, "we have to get off coal immediately". you don't want to finance gas, and as for the atom, you also think maybe it's not green. so i ask you: how does a country like poland build its energy system? but you don't care. you're only interested in a poor country like poland being able to buy electricity quickly, so that it can buy technology from richer countries. because you're not interested in solidarity. the state is interested in dependence, the dependence of the weaker states on the richer states. so, all of this can be covered up with pretty slogans. everyone should care about energy, but, ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing today is not to turn green policy into a policy that many people will cry about instead of rejoice about.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i'm not going to let you down. i would like to thank mr buşoi for his follow-up to the european research area. the radicalisation of eu climate policy is making us increasingly dependent on new and future technologies. we should therefore put even more emphasis on research and innovation in the european union. it's not easy. first, we must meet the demands of sometimes overly radical and stringent environmental standards, which are also beginning to threaten our energy security. we've had power outages in europe. secondly, we cannot voluntarily give up our fields in global economic competition. unfortunately, we also often go against the grain, setting unrealistic goals first and then frantically looking for technologies that meet them. let's be clear: technology is not keeping up with green ambitions. third, and most important, is to ensure the security of energy supply. although my view on this subject is not very popular in this house, i would like to suggest once again that we need to promote zero-emission technologies and carbon capture and storage in our research and innovation programmes.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the european commission's communication on the new european research area contains important data and information showing that, firstly, the 2030 target of 3% of gdp for investment in research and development is far from being achieved by the member states of the european union. second, we need to transfer research results more effectively to the real economy to stimulate business investment. in poland, the recently adopted new economic development strategy called polski ład has included tax breaks for prototypes, industrial robotization or investment support for employees. remember that r & d can also effectively address the agricultural problems of central and eastern europe, as demonstrated by the bioeast initiative, which aims to increase the participation of the 13 central european countries in the framework programmes 'horizon 2020' and 'horizon europe' for research and innovation in agriculture and the bioeconomy, given that these countries receive so far only a meagre amount of funding for this purpose.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, minister, thank you for this inspiring debate and for your encouraging support. i’m very pleased to see that there seems to be a broad agreement amongst most members and groups of this house that we need to urgently step up our efforts to tackle climate change and the loss of biodiversity in one of the most vulnerable regions, which is the southern ocean. your voices clearly reflect the calls of our citizens for more and decisive action on climate change and biodiversity loss. let me briefly reply to mr ruissen, who asked: what about the economic impact of closing fishing grounds and marine protected areas (mpas) to fishing, including for our eu fisheries? i can be very clear on this. the actual impact on those mpas on fishing activities is estimated to be very limited because the most productive fishing grounds are located somewhere else in the southern ocean, and large parts of this sea are covered by ice most of the year. be reassured in any case that our fishers active in the southern ocean are fully behind us in our objective to establish new marine protected areas. all eu goals that are established in the biodiversity strategy are driven by the best available scientific advice. i can only reiterate what commission president von der leyen has said in her first state of the union address when she committed the eu to use all its diplomatic strength and economic clout to broker an agreement on marine protected areas in the southern ocean. i sincerely hope that i will be able to report on progress in this regard to the european parliament after the 40th annual meeting of the convention for the conservation of antarctic marine living resources, in october. i am confident that i can count on your full and continuing support for our common goal to establish new marine protected areas in antarctica. the past has shown that if we join forces in the eu and between eu institutions, we can achieve a lot.
the chairman of the council. the president! ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! - the commissioner! as i said in the opening debate, in addition to the impetus given by the ministerial event hosted by the european union, this year marks the 60th anniversary of the antarctic treaty. these circumstances could contribute to the agreement of all members of the convention on the conservation of antarctic marine living resources on the need to establish additional marine protected areas. the preparation process for the 15th meeting of the states parties to the convention on biological diversity, which will set global biodiversity targets for 2030 and 2050, including marine protected areas, will also provide an opportunity for this. as the commissioner has already mentioned, scientists believe that at least 30% of the world's oceans would need to be converted into protected areas in order to achieve effective results and help restore depleted fish stocks. accordingly, in response to climate change and the loss of biodiversity in arctic waters, the european union must continue to work towards establishing a representative network of marine protected areas. this is essential to protect the delicate ecosystem of antarctica and its surrounding waters. i would also like to take this opportunity to underline the importance which the european union attaches to multilateral cooperation on environmental matters in general and to reaffirm the european union's commitment to multilateral solutions to global challenges in the field of conservation of natural resources and biodiversity, including those brought about by climate change.
in writing. the polar regions of the world must be reserved for peace and science. climate change is causing warming to be more intense in the polar regions of the earth, causing serious environmental problems. the napas are special and sensitive areas, which are particularly vulnerable to potential environmental impacts. i'm in a hurry. the polar regions are warming up to three times faster than the global average. for example, antarctica is estimated to have warmed by nearly three degrees celsius in the last 50 years. in addition to climate change, the pressure to use natural resources is increasing. the madrid protocol to the antarctic treaty designates the area as a 'natural reserve dedicated to peace and science' and as such it must be preserved. any attempt to violate this agreement must be condemned. in this resolution, parliament supports the creation of two new marine protected areas, with a combined area of some 3 million square kilometres. the matter is currently being negotiated within the commission for the conservation of antarctic marine living resources (ccamlr). a similar nature reserve dedicated to peace and science should also be developed for the arctic. the eu should play a strong role in arctic policy. protected areas would play an important role in meeting global biodiversity and climate commitments. i have long been a proponent of a specific arctic environmental impact assessment, which uses longer-term timeframes to assess the impact of projects and also takes into account the cumulative effects of impacts and the rights of indigenous peoples to use the area. the commission is expected to issue a joint communication on the arctic dimension by the end of the year.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, let me start by warmly congratulating honourable member marques on this excellent report, which is a timely contribution to the review of the eu economic governance framework. as you know, we had originally launched a public consultation in february 2020, but had to put it on hold due to the onset of the pandemic. we have stated that we will relaunch the consultation when the economic recovery takes hold. we welcome the large support that this report has received in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ). this shows the cross-party support that exists on the importance of reviewing the economic governance framework, not least our common fiscal rules. it is also comforting that you succeeded to achieve broad convergence on this complex issue. the econ committee has produced a very rich report, and in the interest of time i will limit myself to a few key remarks. first, i am glad to note that the commission and the econ committee entirely agree on the near-term priorities for fiscal policy, namely to continue an expansionary fiscal stance for as long as is needed to support the recovery as well as the necessary transition of our economies, followed by a reorientation of fiscal policies aimed at fiscal sustainability in the medium term. this is entirely in line with the recent guidance that we provided to member states on 2 june. second, on the fiscal rules, the report correctly highlights the sharp increase in public debt in the eu since the start of the pandemic and the need to ensure country-specific pace of debt reduction that safeguards both fiscal sustainability and sustainable inclusive growth. we are not there yet, but once the health situation is fully under control and the economic recovery has taken hold, member states will indeed need to achieve a gradual and credible reduction of high public debt pressures, creating buffers for future needs and challenges. however, and turning to my third point, when the time comes for this gradual fiscal consolidation, we will need to avoid a mistake from the last crisis, which was to allow the burden of fiscal consolidation to fall on public investment. the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) will play a key role in this regard but member states must also seek to protect nationally financed public investment without jeopardising debt sustainability. the fiscal guidance that we recently provided to member states contains elements that go in this direction. the report rightly stresses that further efforts are needed to improve the quality of public finances so as to improve the country’s long-term debt sustainability and enhance the long-term growth potential. it is highly relevant to reflect how the eu’s economic governance framework could contribute to that. let me turn to the macroeconomic imbalance procedure (mip), which is another major element of our economic governance framework. the mip widened the scope of our surveillance beyond fiscal policies to cover other potential sources of macroeconomic imbalances such as large current account imbalances, deteriorating competitiveness, high private debt housing bubbles or fragile banking sectors. the covid-19 crisis has made some of those aspects even more relevant. there are indeed some challenges around mip implementation, on which we are collecting views. for instance, as highlighted also in our review, the policy traction of the mip has declined over time and some imbalances are only gradually being reduced. the report rightfully puts a specific emphasis on the euro area dimension. in recent years the commission already paid more attention to this such that all countries contribute to the rebalancing and their efforts are mutually reinforcing for the benefit of the area as a whole. in addition, the covid—19 crisis has called for a stronger forward-looking perspective in our mip surveillance, which we have pursued for this past year given the very unusual economic circumstances and exceptional uncertainty. to conclude, let me once again thank honourable member marques for this excellent and thought-provoking report. i look forward to hearing your views.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, good evening first of all. i guess almost everything was said, so just a few remarks. so first of all let me thank the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation and willingness to find the compromise. let me also suggest that the involvement of experts in our work helped us to build bridges and find the agreement. and also let me appreciate the great work of our negotiating team. this is important product of the european parliament. and if it will be approved tomorrow, i guess this will help us to set a position on a very important matter that will be, as we’ve heard, very soon on the agenda of the commission. i believe that we need a change of our macroeconomic and fiscal framework. and i believe this report can help us to succeed in this effort. this report is not directly linked to the covid crisis, as we have seen that even the current framework provides sufficient flexibility to deal even with such unusual circumstances, and tragic. however, it has been apparent that the current rules are too complex and are suboptimal due to reliance on unobservable variables. and so that’s why we need to review the framework rather soon, ideally before the escape clause is deactivated. in proposing new frameworks, we should reflect the lessons we learned from the past: make the framework much more transparent, more simple, and make sure that member states better comply with the agreed rules. an essential part of this effort is to ensure, in short, that the variable that will be targeted will be under full control of the governments. unfortunately, this is not the case for now, and that’s why we really need to work on the better framework. the framework also must allow member state to execute strong anti-cyclical policy in case of need, where expansionary budget policy, in bad times, will obviously be balanced by increased savings in the good times. also, creating fiscal buffers for bad situations or crises must be part of the responsible policy tool. i am pleased to see that we found strong support to base our recommendation on the proposal of the european fiscal board, which sets growth of expenditures as a key variable to reach the ultimate goal that is debt sustainability. i believe that this framework will be a significant improvement compared to the current situation, and it will contribute to the sustainability and stability of the eu economy, which can easily be harmed by irresponsible and unsustainable fiscal policy of the member states. thank you very much and i hope you support the report.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, first of all, i would like to congratulate margarida marques and the whole of the alternative rapporteurs of this parliament for having negotiated and agreed on an important, very relevant and, moreover, timely document; a document which, without a doubt, comes to recognise that we cannot go back to the fiscal rules of the current stability pact, the six-pack, the two-pack, the fiscal governance treaty... because, of course, when we are finished, when we finally see the end of this crisis, public debt levels will be so high that to try to reduce them to 60%, at the rate that the current rules impose of one twentieth of a percent each year, is really impossible and we have to admit that. we cannot expect to move at that speed when the crisis is over. and i think that this report recognizes this evidence and also takes advantage of the current situation, where we are not implementing the stability and growth pact, to push ahead with a reform of these rules; reforms which must, first of all, improve the investment capacity of public administrations. we have the climate transition, the digital transition and the improvement of social conditions to reduce the poverty and inequality that this crisis is creating. and we also need to make our fiscal policies as a whole more countercyclical. we've seen it in past crises and we see it in this one. with the current rules we cannot have an anti-cyclical policy and that is why the stability pact has been put out of circulation for a while, but above all that is why we have agreed to create the next generation eu, an instrument to finance investment collectively. and i think the future of the next generation eu is very much intertwined with the debate on tax rules, because you can't understand what rules we're going to apply to states to implement countercyclical policies if we don't think about the future of the next generation eu. and the proposal in this report, which has been led by margarida marques and the other rapporteurs, is timely, it aims to make individual analyses of debt sustainability, with a monitoring instrument, and i hope that the commission and the council will hear this report, read it and start that debate which is so necessary for the european citizens.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are living through a 'polycrisis': a health crisis, an ecological crisis, a social crisis, an economic crisis. we see, therefore, that the economic disruptions of recent years have highlighted our need to reform our macroeconomic framework, including fiscal policies. everyone will tell you. all observers, experts, politicians, academics, are in agreement on this point. we are preparing to vote tomorrow on mrs marques' own-initiative report on the economic governance framework of the european union. this text is important because it sends - and must send - a strong signal to the european commission, which must soon begin work on the revision of the budgetary rules and the macroeconomic framework in general. in the compromise drafts adopted by parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs, it is to be expected that a majority will call for an end to the current budgetary rules. they are indeed illegible, incomprehensible to european citizens, but also unsuitable. i say again: unsuited to the challenges we face - i am thinking of the climate emergency and especially the social emergency. the inclusion of new criteria, in particular qualitative criteria - finally! - and not just quantitative ones, for economic policies to be carried out by the states, is to be welcomed. however, the ambitions of this report must be stronger, which is why i tabled amendments with 70 colleagues. three amendments to try to improve this report. i am going very fast, excuse me, madam president. green and social investment: hop! excluding deficits. we need to advocate for new indicators: poverty, the paris agreement. but we must also call for the inclusion of the european stability mechanism in the union's legal order, because the european parliament will finally have a say. ladies and gentlemen, i hope you will support these amendments because it is high time that this parliament sends out a strong message of ambition on these macroeconomic issues. so tomorrow, this text is at hand and it is the final text that everyone is waiting for.
on behalf of the left group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european debt brake prevents the necessary public investment to make eu member states resilient and sustainable. and, in fact, dear rapporteur, we also agree that the eu must finally put the existing debt rules behind it. a more active fiscal policy is needed to manage the pandemic and its consequences and to avoid passing the costs of the crisis back onto the masses of the population, as happened after the financial crisis with the unconditional imposition of austerity. germany alone has an estimated investment need of eur 450 billion at present. and the pandemic has brought to our attention the shortcomings of public infrastructure and public services in a very harsh way. the price of this wrong policy was paid when our nurses had to fight for every single life in understaffed, under-equipped intensive care units. but the pandemic has also revealed the digital divide in society. where there is no proper internet and technology, people will be left hanging. the digital age has already arrived ten years ago. but we must now invest in digital participation, education and jobs, because no one can be left behind in the digital transformation of our economy and society. unfortunately, the report's initially very progressive positions have been greatly eroded in the course of the negotiations. despite positive elements such as a possible derogation for some growth-enhancing investments, the report adheres to the rusty debt rules of the maastricht treaty and also to the conservative economic policy of the european semester. i call for the maastricht rules to be finally history and for the eu's regulatory framework to be fit for the future. let us dare to make a solidarity and future pact for the eu to promote public investment. thank you for your attention.
madam president, please. the european union has finally not responded to an economic crisis with austerity. hungary has been on this path since 2010, although many people have criticized it before. today, however, there is a general acceptance that investment and structural reforms are needed to achieve competitiveness and sustainable growth. but you shouldn't cross over to the other side of the horse. the financing of the recovery facility by means of a common borrowing facility shall not constitute a precedent. we cannot live on the backs of future generations. the left wants to finance spending by raising taxes beyond borrowing. my fellow left-wing mps, we are in the aftermath of an economic crisis. the minimum tax would raise taxes, which would increase the burden on citizens and reduce europe's competitiveness. both of these things would slow down economic recovery, so it's a completely wrong direction. in conclusion, let me ask the commission not to take ideology where it has no place. the money from the recovery fund should be disbursed to the member states as soon as possible so that the implementation of development plans can begin everywhere.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i think we urgently need a reform of the fiscal rules, and that is before the old rules are reinstated. why would you do that? the suspension of the old rules has enabled us to respond vigorously to the economic consequences of the pandemic. a premature return to the old rules, in particular the debt-to-gdp target of 60%, would have catastrophic economic consequences. many member states would be forced to choke off the recovery before it really kicked in. urgent public investment could no longer be financed. but we need to continue to have an aggressive public investment policy to stabilise the recovery, to reduce unemployment and to tackle the challenges of climate change. some conservatives, including some in this house, are defaming such a policy as irresponsible debt-making. this is just nonsense. the government debt is also harmless if the required debt service is in a reasonable ratio to the revenue. and that can be done by changing fiscal rules.
mr president, when the world came to a standstill last year, one of the biggest questions was whether european countries would be able to take the economic support measures needed to keep businesses going and people in their jobs in the very short term. and we have seen that countries have indeed gone to great lengths to achieve this. the member states have shown far-reaching solidarity, for example through the temporary coronavirus recovery fund. and it is partly thanks to those rare but very necessary exceptions to the budgetary rules that we have managed to keep our economy afloat. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the coronavirus pandemic has proven that saving a little apple for a thirsty one pays off. it is therefore incredibly important in this context that we start to build up the spent buffers as soon as possible and that we bring the national debt back to a manageable level. mr president, that is exactly what this report calls for: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. and i understand, for everyone - just as we are regaining a little bit of freedom, and just as the end of the tunnel is in sight - that sound and correct budgetary policy is not the first thing we want to think about. and yet i would like to stress that we must pick up that thread again, so that we can ensure that we can also weather future economic storms.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. indeed, the build-up of debt and deficits after two major crises is a matter of concern to many people. i can understand that. and at the same time, a monetary union and the eu need common fiscal rules. but if these fiscal rules we have now are applied again now, they will choke off future investment that we need just as badly. secondly, it would lead to disaster for the heavily indebted countries. that is why the current maastricht rules cannot remain as they are. it is a sign of reason that here in the european parliament we have now succeeded in forging a broad compromise. and i hope that all the members and the parties who are now supporting this compromise will take this debate to their member states. the common, sustainable fiscal policy is an important hallmark of the eu and must not be misused at the expense of individual states for national party politics in some countries.
madam president, as the late us president, john tyler, once said, ‘wealth can only be accumulated by the earnings of industry and the savings of frugality.’ it is the bedrock on which our societies were built. but it seems today that these principles no longer hold any value. after the 2008 financial crisis and the 2010 european debt crisis, we made a promise to ourselves: from now on, things would be different. fast forward to 2021, and the most important questions on the minds of our policymakers and central bankers seems to be: when can we all go shopping again? so we find ourselves in a situation where interest rates are cut to zero and government debt is exploding. saving for a rainy day becomes unprofitable, pensions evaporate and housing prices are skyrocketing. our policymakers do not care. for them, it’s about the short—term gain. we need to spend, we need to borrow and we need to speculate. and why reform our economies? they’ve just set up a next generation eu programme for member states who have trouble financing their deficits. the so—called required reforms are a mushy concept. it is a fund which indeed should be called ‘next generation’, since they are the ones paying for it. i call it ‘debt generation eu’. for the ones paying attention it is as clear as a bell: we are borrowing to the hilt; we are over—leveraging capital; and we’re avoiding painful, but necessary, choices. it is a bankrupt business model and it is high time we start reconsidering it.
madam president, commissioner, thirty years later the rules of the stability pact on deficits and debt need to be changed, the maastricht criteria must be changed. first, to facilitate economic recovery by boosting investment. secondly, to reduce the growing inequalities which threaten the european construction with a crisis of cohesion. and thirdly, to avoid a new round of unilateral austerity and debt crisis in the european south, which threatens not only the european south but the whole of the european union and european cohesion. so while the stability pact is suspended, we must find new, more realistic, simpler, more insightful and flexible rules on deficits and debts, and add new indicators, social and climate. the report by mrs marques, although weakened by amendments and pressure from the right, opens up a debate. it is time for the commission to take it forward and not put it off until the german election results are in.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the successful future of europe requires more respect in dealing with each other, more willingness to cooperate, including economic and fiscal cooperation. with the 70 or so recommendations, we as the european parliament want to further improve the common regulatory framework and put these recommendations on the table. the european parliament's scientific service estimates that closer fiscal coordination alone could bring an economic output of €45 billion per year. but this can only be achieved if all member states also implement the reform recommendations adopted. and they don't. more than 50% of all country-specific recommendations under the european semester have been ignored. close economic and fiscal policy coordination is essential to identify the right wounds and to highlight the need for action to promote healthy households, innovation, growth and employment in europe. but it cannot replace urgently needed reforms and the completion of economic and monetary union. it cannot and must not replace the objective of creating a capital markets and banking union. we must finally take up these joint projects again and implement them with determination. we need to be more transparent. we need a sanction mechanism. the stability and growth pact must be made less complex but more binding. and we're going to do all of this together.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must be clear: the european union cannot go back to the austerity policies of the past. the pandemic has shown the need and usefulness of investment and social policy choices that many of us were already proposing well before this past year and a half. we are now moving forward with the reform of the stability pact, which takes into account a new golden rule for social and environmental investment and for inclusive digitalisation, so that it becomes a sustainability pact. we can support european growth with more jobs, with the necessary reforms, with less inequality for all europeans, starting with the youngest. a new season is possible. let's learn from past mistakes and not go back.
madam president, i agree with the previous speaker that perhaps we should reconsider the times at which we discuss these very important matters. but in any case, i do want to say that if, about seven years ago, when i was elected to this house, i had been told that we would vote on a report calling for a legal review of the stability pact, i would not have believed it. tomorrow is a good day for the future of europe, really. but i also have to say -- and we have to acknowledge this -- that we have been costed a financial crisis, a second very serious economic crisis, like covid-19, costed us some levels of inequality, a second self-inflicted recession after the previous financial crisis, by having dogmatic, irrational rules based on unobservable variables. and i think obviously no one can go back there. and, of course, tomorrow parliament will be calling on the commission to be ambitious in reviewing the rules, and to ensure that we can once and for all have rational economic policy instruments for one very important thing too: to have the resources to make the investment necessary to make the ecological transition. all of this is very important. tomorrow the european parliament will make its decision in a clear manner.
madam president, the european union's macroeconomic legislative framework is an almost absolute constraint on any sovereign development project. this is a picture that affects virtually all spheres of state life. through blackmail and the threat of sanctions, the european institutions are trying to influence and prevent more than just the budgetary policy of the member states, they are trying to tie development options to the interests of big capital and the main powers of the european union. in portugal, it is macroeconomic policies in conflict with the constitution that prevent the necessary public investment, the promotion of productive capacity, and the control of strategic sectors. in short, they impede the economic and social development of the country, while at the same time promoting the growth of inequalities, social injustices and the increase of exploitation. the way forward requires the untying of this curtain, starting with the abolition, not the reform, of all the mechanisms which constrain and condition states in defining and implementing their sovereign development strategies.
madam president, commissioner, recent years have shown the need for a meaningful change of the eu macroeconomic framework. we need flexible rules, enhancing our growth potential and increasing sustainable public and private investment. we need the economic governance not to forget about its social factor. we need a european semester that is accepted and not ignored. and we need it now, before the current general escape clause stops to function. a paradigm shift is there. it’s not the time for obsolete divisions between the north and the south in the council, left and right in the parliament. it is crucial to find common objectives that will lead us to solutions. the times, they are a-changing, and so should our economic governance. and we must remember – it is an existential matter for the european project.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. the complaint against the government of bangladesh for non-compliance with the ilo convention is particularly relevant from the point of view of the country's cooperation with the european union. under the gsp, the country enjoys preferences and undertakes to respect the fundamental and priority ilo conventions on trade union rights in labour inspections. in bangladesh, the complaint states, this is not the case and the situation of workers in the labour market is deteriorating. regardless of the subject of the complaint, there have also been reports of forced labour in bangladesh. other charges include: anti-union discrimination, including intimidation, violence against union members, dismissal of employees, refusal to register unions, even for unions representing as much as 70% of the crew. the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining is also violated. improving the situation of workers in bangladesh and the cooperation of the government of bangladesh with the ilo and the european union is a prerequisite for the country to continue to benefit from the preferential duty-free regime for exports to the european union. and it must be enforced consistently. the implementation of the actions contained in the corrective roadmap needs to be closely and consistently monitored and, in the event of insufficient progress, the administrative board should set up a committee of inquiry.
mr. chairman, please! the closure of apple daily, which has been defending hong kong's freedom and autonomy for the past 26 years, exposing not only the authorities in beijing, but also the authorities of the autonomy and large corporations, businessmen oriented politically towards power in china, is a symbolic exhaustion of the formula of the 1980s proclaimed by deng xiaoping "one country, two systems". today, unfortunately, we can say that we have one country, one system. the imprisonment last year of 70-year-old newspaper owner jimmy lai on absurd charges of conspiring with outside forces, which could result in life imprisonment, clearly shows that the authorities in beijing are not shying away from repression to stifle any criticism from independent media. how cynical the words of the authorities in beijing must sound when they justify the newspaper's closure by saying that these actions were only steps to fight crime and maintain the rule of law and social order. today we must all stand with the people of hong kong, who have given a beautiful witness by standing in line at night for the last issue of this independent newspaper.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in europe, the move away from the death penalty was evolutionary. it was the result of a gradual change in legal doctrine. capital punishment is not prohibited under generally applicable international law. in the ongoing debate, we are asking ourselves: should we explicitly oppose its use in all circumstances, or does it go beyond the limits of tolerance for the most heinous crimes? we are dealing with different circumstances in which this penalty is imposed. there are cases where it is used for political reasons as a tool for persecution or discrimination. death sentences like this are often judicial crimes. the death penalty is undoubtedly qualified as such if the death penalty is imposed as a result of a procedure in which the accused is deprived of his fundamental rights, subjected to torture or prevented from exercising his right of defence. this is most likely the case of mustafa al-darwish, and it is not the only case of an unlawful international trial in saudi arabia. we can't agree to that. human life is the highest value.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. civil aviation is in the worst crisis since the end of world war ii. therefore, all measures to rebuild the union aviation sector are necessary. this is necessary in view of the dramatic decline in air traffic. in my country, poland, international passenger traffic fell by 70% in 2020 compared to 2019. the international air transport association has forecast that recovery to pre-pandemic covid-19 levels will take at least several years. the commission notes that the airport operator has not provided any evidence that the airport services agreement between ryanair and ams is in line with the market economy investor principle. therefore, the actions taken to restore confidence in travel, such as the eu covid certificates and passenger location forms, are very important for the recovery of air traffic, but are not sufficient. it should also be borne in mind that any action, such as the imposition of new duties or taxes, in the coming years should be preceded by a sound impact analysis in terms of their impact on the recovery of the aviation sector. consideration should be given to the non-application of measures to limit the development dynamics if the effectiveness of the burdens applied may be lower than the costs incurred. i would therefore like to ask how, in addition to introducing a digital green certificate, the coordination of travel restrictions and sanitary requirements can be improved to ensure consistency between member states' actions, increase travel security and encourage consumers to buy tickets.
mr. chairman, please! in this room, we often talk about the development of the european union, focusing on the digital revolution, economic recovery after the crisis, the green transition. it's good that it's happening. but can we achieve all of this without a functioning and healthy society? public health protection measures must be consistent, coherent and coordinated. the covid-19 pandemic has changed all of our lives, left a lasting impact on the health of many people in the european union, and exposed the weaknesses in the eu's health risk management mechanisms. those mechanisms require a streamlined approach to future health crises at union level, also based on european solidarity. all of this makes it necessary to strengthen health security and to respond more effectively to health threats that may arise in the near future. the amendments to the regulation on the european centre for disease prevention and control will help to strengthen the health security of europeans, contribute to better coordination of actions and to a faster exchange of information between member states. these actions will hopefully help to effectively combat not only covid-19, but also other health threats that are killing many europeans. cancer, cardiovascular disease, heart disease, mental illness, all of them, they were, they are, they will be. let's not forget that for our health and the health of future generations.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. there is no precise data on the scale of the platform work phenomenon. at the same time, the demand for these flexible solutions is growing very rapidly, and the pandemic is accelerating this process. many of the people working on the platforms are employees or self-employed in other fields, doing menial or on-demand work. they should enjoy the rights of workers if, under the law of the member state concerned, the work they perform fulfils the conditions specific to the employment relationship. the employment relationship is governed by national labour codes. what we're proposing is a touchy, alleged work relationship. the commission notes that the fact that the tax authorities have not provided any information on the taxable persons who are not taxable persons does not mean that the taxable persons are not taxable persons. the parties' freedom to choose the contract is also restricted. let us not impose additional burdens on member states, reducing the competitiveness of their economies. we can't interfere with the social security system. labour law is a matter for the member states. the european union can only intervene in the field of free movement of workers and equal treatment. therefore, platforms should be addressed at national rather than eu level.
madam president! new technologies make our lives easier in many ways. and so it is with online platforms. their operation brings many benefits to both their customers and the people who profit from them. the demand for jobs on online platforms is growing very fast and it is estimated that more and more people will look for work through them. but the information we have is not enough. there is no precise data on the actual scale of the work on the platforms. and the pandemic and remote work have changed our reality dramatically. the report highlights the introduction of harmonised rules at eu level to cover professions exercised through online platforms. however, we must ask ourselves whether such measures, which impose additional obligations on member states, will not reduce the competitiveness of their economies and interfere with the shape of social security systems, which are the exclusive competence of the member states. of course, every worker must be protected, regardless of how he or she takes up his or her job. however, it is necessary to consider whether the measures taken in relation to platform workers should be implemented at union level. that's the first one. secondly, if existing legal instruments are not applied - as was stressed during the report - then it is important to do everything possible to apply existing law first, rather than to prepare new ones.
in writing. the economic tensions caused by the pandemic pose a particular threat to sectors that have previously faced difficulties. these include the fisheries sector, which is crucial for coastal areas, both in economic terms and for the protection of cultural heritage. the ageing of the workforce in this sector is due to both difficult working conditions and income insecurity and lack of guarantees of career continuity. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its impact on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its impact on the environment. in addition, it is necessary to support those who, for health or family reasons, wish to continue working ashore, in acquiring the appropriate qualifications, finding a job or setting up a business. it is worth emphasising that the sensitivity of young people to the issue of respect for the environment, combined with the provision of appropriate knowledge and skills, can help prepare a new generation of fishermen for the role of guardians of the sea and its resources.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. fellow workers! i think december 2020 is a historic december, when the whole of the european union agreed to zero emissions by 2050 at the european union level, with the consumers in mind, in a solidarity, in a responsible way, showing the different ways of reaching the goal in the individual countries of the european union. unfortunately, and i say this with regret, i hope we'll work on it and change it, the fit for 55 package forgets about those agreements. governments are counting, citizens are getting interested, and they're asking questions. they're asking about price increases, price increases on everything. they will bear the brunt of the cost and the burden of the european union's ambitions. so we have to make sure that they're not the ones who are energy poor. already 50 million citizens of the european union are living in energy poverty. initial estimates suggest that there will be at least twice as many. so we have to limit new taxes, injunctions, prohibitions, we just have to count money. without people, we can't do this. they'll turn on us, and no ambition, no incentive will help. at the same time, i hope we'll work on the ets and the one we're going to review and the new one for buildings and cars. because the ets, ladies and gentlemen, is firstly unfair, and secondly, it's perverted, it's operating on a speculative market. frans timmermans, in answer to my question, expressed his satisfaction that the ets prices are rising and that this is directly reflected in energy prices. i remind you that during the pandemic, they tripled. at the same time, when we agreed and we wrote in the climate law that we would absorb, we almost eliminated artificial absorbers, they are only mentioned in the climate law in the preamble. let's make sure that, according to the ipcc report, where d.1.4 and d.1.5 clearly talk about the importance of artificial sinks, that they're in the records so that companies want to sink. it seems to be the fastest, fairest way to achieve zero emissions.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the draft prepared by commissioner timmermans is highly controversial and this is echoed in virtually every speech in this chamber. on the one hand, we have a noble goal: the protection of the climate, the future of our planet (this is certainly one of the most important challenges we face), but on the other hand, this noble goal must be achieved by the degradation of the european economy, by the loss of jobs, by the steady increase in the poverty of millions of europeans and the degradation of entire regions. if the fit for 55 target is achieved at this cost, it will not only not improve the lot of europeans and ensure a good future for the people of our region and the world, but will on the contrary make it worse. if you don't know what it is, it's usually money. so let's ask ourselves, who benefits from this, and who loses from this.
mr. chairman, please! the political, economic and technological mobilization to achieve climate goals is unprecedented in our history. with the fit for 55 package, the european commission has outlined the way the european union should achieve climate neutrality. but i have to speak out loud about the many fears that still accompany the green revolution. scientists suggest that even with efforts like those currently being made in europe, humanity simply cannot slow climate change. i'm not denying that these changes are happening, but i have serious doubts that the billions of euros we're borrowing from future generations will actually make the world a better place. secondly, mr president, i would ask you to look at what climate policy is already doing to the economy. record carbon prices leading to energy market price increases, power shortages and power outages. and that's just the beginning. is that your goal? ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of small businesses, on behalf of middle-income families, on behalf of indebted households who cannot afford another wave of... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, we know that the planet is on the verge of the point of no return as far as climate change is concerned. the green transition is not only necessary; it is urgent, it is inevitable. the package presented here today in the european parliament, the 'objective 55' package, refers to the objectives already agreed by the union through the green deal, legal and binding objectives, which, moreover, are to become a roadmap for the reference decarbonisation in the rest of the world. i want to thank the european commission for a titanic effort to present this package today, but i would like to make a few comments. firstly, as regards the extension of the emissions trading scheme to transport and buildings, we must be careful that it does not have a social impact on the most vulnerable. secondly, we need sufficient compensation mechanisms, which is why the social climate fund is such an important tool. thirdly, we need a regulation on the sharing of effort, with proportionate and realistic targets for the member states. in short, we must put the citizens at the centre of our concerns now that we have to negotiate the package, in order to sustain their support for this process in a sustainable way.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the ipcc report is actually a shocking read. even in the most optimistic scenario, where we achieve zero emissions by 2050, yes, warming can actually have catastrophic consequences for humanity, and we must and must respond to that. we're already experiencing these extreme weather changes. each year brings more extreme weather than the previous year: more floods, forest fires, droughts, prolonged heat waves, and radical changes are needed. and the commission's green pact and fit for 55 are good and right steps, and it is the least we can do. i think it is part of a debate like the one we have today to remind ourselves of the great demands this makes to get it through: great demands on the council, on the commission and on ourselves in this house. so let us keep that action in mind when we really have to get down to business, because action is needed here and now. it's the least we can do.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we are discussing today a very ambitious package of solutions to bring the european union to climate neutrality and significant emission reductions by 2030. as europeans, we can be proud of what we have already done to protect the climate and of the plans we have. we have little choice but to rebuild the european union's economy to protect the climate and to restore our economy's competitiveness after the pandemic crisis. we warned with the epp that a 55% reduction would require a lot of effort and sacrifice. this is evident from the legislative proposals that have been put forward. and let me be clear: there are many economic and social factors that could derail this project. from the potential price increases caused by the ets in construction and transport, to the lack of building materials and qualified installers that will be needed to carry out the wave of renovations. i agree with the commissioner that it is not too late, that we can build a low-carbon, competitive economy. but i also agree that it's going to be very difficult. that's why it's critical that we adopt solutions that protect our citizens. we need funds to support the right level of support and mechanisms to get our economy moving in the areas that are key to green governance. the alternative is to give up some of our ambitions, because that's the only way we can achieve success.
in writing. the latest ipcc report reminded us that we are on the brink of a precipice and that we, the people, are responsible for it. only rapid systemic change can prevent the climate crisis from worsening. this will not happen unless the impact of the livestock sector on the climate and the environment is taken seriously by the legislators. animal agriculture is destroying biodiversity, the environment and is causing a climate catastrophe. the sector is responsible for around 12·17% of total eu greenhouse gas emissions. the carbon dioxide emissions alone are higher than the sum of the annual co2 emissions of four countries: poland, hungary, the czech republic and slovakia. we've made the earth a dining hall, and the appetite of the global north is causing the global south to experience hunger. however, the commission has not proposed any action to bring about real changes in breeding. the commission has no problem talking about reforming the energy and transport sectors, but it has no courage to propose the necessary changes in the agricultural sector. there is also a lack of solutions that would ensure the necessary reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from livestock farming under the package ready for 55. this clearly shows that the commission does not take seriously the alarm raised by scientists. she's ignoring the data she's referring to. and our chances of stopping climate catastrophe are getting smaller by the day.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the world bank estimates the cost of natural disasters on a global scale at 440 billion euros a year . but it's hundreds of thousands of human tragedies, because from floods and avalanches to heat waves, natural disasters can devastate entire communities. we must speak out loud about the common responsibility of the european union, but also of each of the states, regions and cities, to have plans and strategies at national and local levels to reduce the risks associated with natural disasters and to reduce the losses associated with these disasters. in this respect, the european union has a very important role to play in coordinating and securing the necessary financial resources for infrastructure improvements. in the european union, it is not enough to shout about climate change, about reducing the risk of natural hazards. eu cohesion policy funds, funds for the regions, as well as additional resources in the economic recovery fund, national economic recovery plans are needed to ensure a genuine resilience policy so that the transition to a low-carbon economy is achieved, so that the country can transform its infrastructure to be more resilient to natural disasters and to recover quickly after a natural disaster. today, we are also struggling with the huge social impact of the covid-19 pandemic and the economic recession. we fight for food security, for ase in agriculture. what is the european commission doing? it evaluates the national recovery programmes politically and locks in the funds due to the member state and reacts passively to requests for intervention and from the states. do deeds or just words unite the european union? so it is not politics but responsibility that is the credibility of the european community. a europe that is strong and secure is only strong and secure if each of its member states is strong and secure.
madam president, your honour, i have to ask you to stop this. i would like to call for realism and realistic goals for our policy. for 20 years, we were there so that they wouldn't be here, so that 9/11 wouldn't happen again on this scale in our part of the world. that's why we fought the taliban and we fought isis. so safety should be a priority. it requires an alliance with the united states and nato, not strategic autonomy, at least in this area of action. it requires a coalition of willing and able, willing, interested states, it requires a policy of containment of the taliban. we should also defend the achievements of civilization, of society, of civil rights. we have limited instruments. we're not there. humanitarian aid should be very conditional. we should try to hold the states that support the taliban accountable for their behavior. migration is not the answer. we should encourage those who can stand up to the taliban to come back.
madam president, let us have no illusions. the taliban are religious fanatics and they have not fought us for 20 years in order now to protect a liberal way of life. no. revenge killings, stonings, the war on women have already started. a night of barbarism is descending on afghanistan, and it will be retrograde, bloody and long. i fear for my afghan friends and i’m sorry that we created an illusion for a generation of afghans that they could develop in security. the fault is that of afghan administrations, too, which are corrupt and inept. of course the high representative should speak to whoever is in charge in kabul but, mr borrell, you should speak about our core interests, which are negative – that afghanistan should not be the source of drugs, terrorism and refugees. and we should draw two lessons from this sorry fiasco. number one, that countries, also in this union, should be allowed to develop at their own pace. imported revolutions don’t work. and number two, that we must get serious about european defence. if we’d been able to replace the americans at bagram this collapse might not have happened. we should be good allies of the united states, but we should not be at their mercy.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: for example, interpreters, drivers and cooks. we can't leave these people behind. the european member states must evacuate and properly take in those who are not yet here. the european union must not allow itself to be taken in by neighbouring pakistan, which is currently hosting afghan refugees. the requirements of the sap+ system shall continue to apply to pakistan. the resolution adopted by parliament on 21 april remains in force, mr borrell. i also fear for religious freedom in afghanistan. for christians and other believers in afghanistan, a dark time is coming. we must not lose sight of them from the european union. all the more reason to appoint a special envoy for religious freedom as a matter of urgency.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the lesson from the disaster in afghanistan can only be one: we need a self-confident, independent foreign, security and development policy in the european union. a global policy that is not focused on saber-rattling and one-sided national interests, but that looks at how people can live freely in their own self-determination, how we can strengthen the un's sustainability goals and how we can tackle the real causes of the crisis. that, mr borrell, must be the debate in this house in the coming weeks and months. now, of course, there is nothing else to do but to prevent people from sinking into misery in the short term, to provide immediate relief, to ensure that human rights organizations and aid organizations can work freely and that we maintain the corridors of human dignity with united strength as best we can.
madam president, some 20 years ago the great ahmed shah masood visited this house, the european parliament, and he was warmly welcomed. now commander massoud led the heroic fight against both the communist occupation and later against the taliban in search of a better future, and he would have fought the taliban regime today if it wasn’t for osama bin laden’s henchmen who killed masood just two days before 9/11. but, dear colleagues, fortunately today, 20 years later, his son, ahmed masood junior is leading the resistance against the taliban regime, fighting for a better future. now let us again invite ahmed shah masood to this house, welcome him like we welcomed him 20 years ago, and work together with him on that better future in afghanistan.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the the memory of this event still gives me an immense feeling of solidarity with the victims. this solidarity has brought us as allies of the united states to afghanistan, which ended in a debacle. but we must learn from it. since 9/11, the threats around the world have increased dramatically. however, this has not yet led to the necessary progress in the area of the european union's military self-reliance. our solidarity with the united states is and remains crucial to our security policy and is an indispensable lever for our common values and multiculturalism. solidarity is not the same as blind obedience. we must therefore urgently work on a full-fledged self-defence. at the same time, we must continue to commit ourselves to our nato cooperation and give it priority as allies when the time comes for new agreements.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. how many more wake-up calls do we need to get to the point where we're like, only if we speak with one voice and act together can europe play a role on the world stage. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and it needs a determined common foreign, security, defence and development policy. the afghan case, however, shows us once again that there can and must be no two-way street in the european debate on refugees. we need help on the ground and a secure border. we must also guarantee the right of asylum to those fleeing persecution and terror. yes, it is right and important that we support neighboring countries in hosting and caring for afghan refugees. yes, but it is just as right and important that we create legal escape routes and provide a humanitarian corridor to europe.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, we rightly decided 20 years ago to intervene on the basis of article 5 of the nato treaty in support of the united states under attack at home. after 20 years, this collegial decision to start is being suspended on the basis of a factual assessment by the united states which is little more than unilateral. what has happened in these 20 years? something specific happened in that country: a hope is born, and it is objective: it's not just the fact that the number of afghan citizens has doubled that should be striking, but the fact that is most striking is that when we arrived 20 years ago, there were 800,000 male students in afghanistan, and today there are 12 million students, half of whom are women. when hope is born, the task of politics is to take it into account, and this is not just a political and humanitarian point, this is not a matter for ngos, this is the pillar of geopolitical strategy. the united states has decided not to watch it. europe must show that it is willing to look to this pillar to return to being a leading great power.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, i have been president of this parliament and therefore i am fully convinced of its autonomy and its capacity to organise itself, but i seriously wonder whether seventy-seven one-minute speeches are the best way to conduct this debate. now you give me five minutes to try to answer the seventy-seven interventions, which is materially impossible. and i regret that, because many of them - almost all of them - have been very interesting and controversial, because we have heard from one extreme to the other very different positions, sometimes inevitably repetitive. believe me, i am a little frustrated, madam president, because now i cannot continue the debate you have started. but i think there are interesting things to point out about the action we have to take and the lessons we have learned or should learn. when you think it appropriate, interrupt me, because i think i'm going to go over five minutes, or at least i wish i could. the taliban have not put a government that meets any of our wishful thinking because expectations cannot be told. it's a taliban hard-line government; it's a government whose strongmen are simply blacklisted by the united nations, and with an education minister who has come out saying "it's not being educated that counts, it's being pious that counts". well, with these approaches, we're good. that's what we're up against. we must also know that the first thing we have to do is to help the people of afghanistan, because there are five million afghans in the north - five million - who are threatened by exceptional famine. we must save them, or try to save them, but for humanitarian reasons, not because we are afraid that if we do not, they will migrate and cause us problems at home. for humanitarian reasons. five million people at risk of starvation. besides, they're not the ones who are going to emigrate. they are far away, they live in the mountains, they have no strength to migrate. we must help them before winter because otherwise the help will be blocked by snow and we will not be able to get it. yes, we must help the displaced populations and i do not think, in the face of the fear expressed by many, that we should expect a large-scale migration movement towards europe, unless there is a civil war, which does not seem likely in the immediate future either. the migrants who would like to emigrate are the middle classes of the cities that have developed over the last twenty years and who will probably want to go to the united states, canada or australia rather than europe. do we have to have a political dialogue with the taliban? it depends on what you mean by political dialogue. but we have to talk. i want to insist on this, because the power that is in afghanistan is not a stable power. the taliban is not a single political reality. there are also frictions and conflicts between them, but we must quickly open a channel of discussion to distribute aid and to try to evacuate the vulnerable people to whom we owe protection. we must also intensify our contacts with pakistan, qatar, russia, china, tajikistan, turkey and uzbekistan. they're key players in this region. so our delegation in saudi arabia is going to send two people to qatar and from qatar we're going to try to set foot in kabul. the priority, i insist, must be to avoid being excluded. the withdrawal of the united states should not ipso facto mean our geostrategic exclusion. first, humanitarian aid, but then a presence that allows us to follow closely what is happening in the country. afghanistan is going to go down financially if we don't do something to prevent it, and its financial collapse will have political consequences. it is absolutely necessary that what they call the 'bazar', the money in exile, can, as has happened on other occasions, play a role in stabilising the country. i must say that the united states has taken some good initiatives from a humanitarian point of view. they have agreed that ngos are exempt from authorizations so that they can transfer money without falling under us sanctions. that's very good news. they have authorized swift payments, which may allow funds to be transferred to afghanistan, but as long as banks are not allowed to make large withdrawals of funds, ngos will be reluctant to commit to decisive action in the region. the first test we will have of how the afghan government is acting is its ability to respond to the aid we have to give them from a humanitarian point of view. ladies and gentlemen, i will close now because i do not want to abuse the presidency and its patience, but i agree and at the same time disagree with many of the things that have been said. i fully agree that what has happened in afghanistan shows us that the solution to many problems is not military. it's not military. the world's greatest military power, after 20 years of spending 300 million dollars a day, has failed to win a war against the poorest country on earth. the solution is not military, it is basically civil action, but we do not take the argument too far and do not believe that behind any diplomatic action there must not also be a military capacity for intervention, because sometimes things get ugly and the word is not enough. even if only for the deterrent, a military capability is a must for any actor who wants to call himself geopolitical. so yes, the solution to the world's great problems is not war, but that does not exempt us europeans from having a capacity for action of our own. i want to make the case here for the need for strategic autonomy for europe, so that it can be used when necessary. this debate must continue, your honours. it must continue. we cannot simply stop at seventy-seven one-minute interventions. we must draw operational and practical consequences to prevent what has happened in afghanistan from being repeated in other parts of the world where we are very present and where our withdrawal would mean, as the withdrawal from afghanistan has meant, a setback in history for millions of human beings who aspire to live as we do: in freedom.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 16 september 2021. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the return of the taliban to business was largely predictable. the latter were engaged in the doha negotiations and the withdrawal of us troops had been announced long ago. that is why i have asked the commission on many occasions about the future of european aid to that country. afghanistan has received more than €4 billion in development aid since 2002, making it the largest recipient. humanitarian aid would amount to €1 billion since 1994. the commission's announcement of a fourfold increase in humanitarian aid is irresponsible in view of the risks of diversion and ethical issues, in particular with regard to women's effective access to the programmes from which they are supposed to benefit. the immigration issue remains unresolved despite an agreement with afghanistan in 2016 and renewed in april. it is clear that returning migrants will be even more difficult when the country is under taliban rule. in view of the current trends afghans are reported to constitute the second largest contingent of applicants for international protection and half of the isolated minors , decisive action is needed.
in writing. – europe is in need of a vision, but also of security and stability, until it is able to come out of the various crises in which we find ourselves. crises have always been our biggest allies because they force us to develop - they give us a signal where we can improve and do better. this is how we have created many of our institutions, which today make our union even stronger. today, looking at the ambitious green transition we are about to undertake and the situation we are witnessing in afghanistan, we need to make sure we have learned our lessons from previous crises. europe must avoid the creation of a green iron curtain and we must find a more unified harmonised approach to migration. we need to be careful not to fuel the far-right or far-left populists. we cannot allow ourselves to be divided.
in writing. a lot of my previous speakers have talked about the situation in afghanistan in the context of the failure of u.s. policy. however, there is no doubt that this is primarily a humanitarian and human rights crisis and that the safety, security and rights of the afghan people must be given priority. we are hearing about the execution of civilians, the suppression of peaceful protests and the curtailment of human rights, especially of women and girls, human rights defenders, lgbti+ people, religious and ethnic minorities, journalists, academics and artists. i agree that we should look for ways to work with the taliban that are limited to providing protection and humanitarian assistance to civilians, because we cannot trust the regime. fearing for their lives, many afghans are still waiting to leave the country. food and basic supplies are running out. our responsibility is to create safe humanitarian corridors and to provide international protection for afghans. this is another attempt at solidarity in the eu's migration policy. for months we have been working on legislation to ensure coordinated european action to implement a humanitarian asylum policy, allowing the eu to take moral responsibility for the reception and integration of refugees! so i am ashamed of the attitude of my country's government, which denies afghans the opportunity to apply for humanitarian visas. i call for unity in the eu's humanitarian action.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in lebanon (2021/2878 (rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. tomorrow another convoy will leave from poland, this time by airlift, with humanitarian aid for the lebanese. it's mostly 10 tons of milk powder, food packages, baby milk and, most importantly, cleaning supplies. first of all, ladies and gentlemen, we have received information through aid to the church in need, an association to which i am very grateful for this activity, we have also received information from the ambassador that medical procedures are already being carried out without anesthesia, because there is a lack of medical supplies, there is a lack of medicines. i think what we should be focusing on right now is humanitarian aid first and foremost. the country is unable to recover from the economic collapse, and there are shortages of supplies, electricity, water and gas. the lebanese economy shrank by 24% in 2020, and i think that with thousands, if not millions, of syrian refugees, including palestinian refugees, living there, the situation is dramatic. first of all, we need to focus on humanitarian aid right now. thank you to all who are bringing this aid to the lebanese.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, life in beirut, as in the whole of lebanon, has been reduced to a mere logic of survival for a population that is physically, mentally and emotionally on its knees. the damage to the city and the country's economy caused by the explosion in beirut's port remains incalculable today; the health, economic and social situation continues to deteriorate, while the country's political and ruling class remains all too engaged in an endemic struggle for the sharing of power. no, the lebanese people, who have always been a great example of solidarity and we have seen this in the syrian crisis, really do not deserve this. and if the union is to play a significant role in shaping the future, we must speak up for the legitimate demands of the people, find a system to control the flow of aid and make sure that the commitments made by this new government are fully implemented and also, if the responsible actors continue to obstruct reforms and the fight against corruption, adopt sanctions in the framework recently approved, starting with those responsible for the port explosion. it will be essential to avoid the role of the individual member states, to follow a common line, to play a constructive role in achieving the stability and unity of the country in order to support the legitimate desire for social and economic justice which is driving thousands of people to take to the streets today to secure a future for themselves and their children.
madam president, first of all, it is very sad to see that the lebanese people in this beautiful country are in this terrible situation. lebanon is of strategic importance for the european union. the current crisis could turn into a full—scale catastrophe with an impact on the whole region, and we don’t need another failed state in the mediterranean, like we have around libya, syria and afghanistan, with another refugee crisis. to avoid this, mr borrell, you mentioned what we need to do, but we need to do it now. i also request that the european external action service come forward with a list of individuals and entities which should be on this sanction list of people who are responsible for undermining democracy and the rule of law, and are involved in corruption, etc. this is what the lebanese people also expect from us. the second thing is what you mentioned. it is very clear that timely and transparent elections need to be held next year. this is an opportunity for the lebanese people to hold political accountability for their future and for the political representatives which they would like to choose. we need to insist that an international fact—finding commission investigates the beirut port explosion, and we need to show full solidarity with the lebanese people, providing additional financial assistance in agreement with the international monetary fund. i also think we should send a special administrative advisory mission to support the lebanese state building there with administrative advice. thank you very much. mr borrell, please, let’s act now.
madam president, for anyone following lebanese politics, the last year has been a series of disappointments and deepening frustration – frustration at how endemic corruption hinders peace, prosperity and stability, and at how political elites have abandoned the people and are refusing to take responsibility after a national tragedy and a worsening economic situation. holding free and fair elections is the first step that we need to take to manage and remedy the crisis. the eu must continue to support the lebanese people, but we must not become accomplices in worsening corruption and instability. any eu support must be conditional on reform and on credible commitments that elections will be held in 2022. we cannot afford to lose another generation in lebanon. they deserve our support.
madam president, since friday, lebanon has had a government. this small step was one of the conditions for the granting of international aid, but we must be very careful; just because lebanon has a government does not mean that the european union should not sanction some of its corrupt leaders who are responsible for the instability of the country. our policy of sanctions against the lebanese leadership, even with a government, must be implemented in the coming weeks with the vote of a first list of names, since we now have a very clear political and legal framework, voted last july. we also expect this new government to guarantee the holding, smooth running and transparency of the elections in 2022, with the legislative elections on 8 may as the horizon, followed by the municipal and presidential elections. my dear colleagues, we europeans must be on the watch for the lebanese.
madam president, the catastrophic blast in the port of beirut has only speeded up the deep and widespread crisis that has been crushing lebanon’s political and economic life for years. during our visit last week, we witnessed dramatic images from across the country with thousands of people forced to live in dire conditions with shortages of fuel and energy supplies and terrible consequences for the national health care system. we need to reformulate the strategy and the recovery plan for lebanon in the framework of the eu—lebanon partnership priorities under the new global europe instrument. we also still expect the new government to address the macroeconomic and fiscal crisis and take credible anti-corruption actions for the immediate benefit of the lebanese people. the measures implemented in recent years were not even close to matching the purpose. in this kind of social, economic and political meltdown, no one must be left behind, especially the most vulnerable in society.
madam president, lebanon has been facing a severe social, financial, economic and political crisis and now faces some challenges that seem to form a humanitarian crisis. after one year of political impasse, a new government has been formed. it is now time to be positive, to focus on the reforms required to steer the country, to fight corruption with determination, to grant stability and a sustainable recovery. for that, we have to congregate all the stakeholders: religious and political forces must be involved, as well as some hugely influential neighbour states. fair and transparent elections, eu assistance and eu commitment must be ready. a stable and prosperous lebanon is possible if we want it, if we help the lebanese people.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i was in beirut last week and every day lebanon is collapsing and in danger of disappearing. the situation in lebanon is one of extreme humanitarian, political and democratic urgency. growing poverty, international threats, and corruption have weakened the country. the formation of a new government after months of waiting should not fool us, as the sabotage of the investigation into the circumstances of the explosion in beirut port illustrates. if we want to respond to the desperation of the lebanese, we must be extremely demanding, being tough with the same leaders and benevolent with the population. this requirement must be implemented through individual sanctions against corrupt officials, the obligation to provide external monitoring of future elections and the establishment of an independent international authority to ensure the proper use of aid granted to lebanon. we will not let the lebanese people down. we owe this to lebanon and the european union.
madam president, mr vice-president, the internal difficulties of lebanese society have been identified many times, internal difficulties which have been aggravated by a very severe economic crisis, which the explosion in the port of beirut did not help. it also affected access to the most essential goods, since the port of beirut was the entry point for some 70% of imports. we have also seen many attempts to help over the years, but these have only created difficulties for the lebanese people. several financial aid packages loaded with austerity, with reforms that imposed austerity and aggravated the hardships of the people living there. we have also seen a people who have been able to receive palestinian and syrian refugees with great solidarity and we now see the difficulties facing the united nations, particularly with regard to maintaining minimum conditions for palestinian refugees. we must therefore continue to support unrwa and not let it lose its funds and stop supporting those who need it most, and that is a responsibility we have and must fulfil. finally, a word on sanctions. i've asked this question many times, but i want to repeat it. we need to guarantee and protect the capacity of the lebanese people to decide their future without any outside interference and in this regard i would like to ask, once again, for criteria that are not discretionary because if sanctions are applied, we may once again be playing an interfering role and directly interfering in what is society and the choice of the lebanese. i would very much like to have the assurance that we are not using interference or any form of intervention.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, i have listened carefully to all your speeches and many of them have referred to sanctions. the sanctions we had prepared - we had prepared a legal framework to implement them - were mainly about obstructing the formation of a government. now that there is a government, even if it is late, i think that the member states will not impose sanctions. frankly, i think the time to do that is past, because if the goal was to push towards the formation of a government, that government is already formed. yes, some of you have said: "they are the same as always, it is the same political class as always". it's the one. when i was in lebanon, i met people on the street who told me 'don't call elections; send us administrators', which is still impressive, when in a country its people ask you not to call elections, but, a little less, ask you to call a public competition to choose a good administrator. it is certainly disappointing that this is happening, but it is because disappointment with the behaviour of the political class is what has led to this situation. what we have to do now is to demand that the new government address the problems facing the country, that it address them in a credible, transparent and independent way from vested interests, and that it give us reasons and arguments for continuing our financial assistance. think about it, since 2011, in the last 10 years, we have allocated to lebanon almost three billion euros. two thousand eight hundred and five million euros over ten years, of which, it is true, two billion was aid to help them cope with the syrian crisis. all of this has to be said: lebanon is a country that has had to take in one and a half million syrian refugees, and not all of them are registered. therefore, the actual figure must be higher. we must recognize the people of lebanon for the enormous effort they have made to welcome syrian refugees. just think how many european countries of the size of lebanon would react if they had to take in a million and a half refugees. think of how we would respond to what has been yours. no, we're not cutting aid to lebanon. on the contrary, we're going to try to increase it. we will facilitate the agreement with the international monetary fund and we will see if it is possible for us to deploy an election observation mission for the next elections, which should be in may 2022. i share all your worries, your criticisms, i make them mine. as you can see, the absolute necessity in which a very large part of the lebanese population finds itself means that sometimes it is not just the political regimes, but the managers of the systems that cause situations like this. lebanon is a democratic country; lebanon is not a country under a communist dictatorship, but the system's managers have not been up to the task and that is why we were thinking of imposing sanctions. what we have to do now is look ahead and support this government: critical, demanding support from the beginning. we'll be following his progress closely. i was to receive this week the one who was the interim foreign minister of the provisional government or the government in charge, and she can no longer be. i'll have to meet the next foreign minister, but the message will be the same. lebanon is on the edge of a precipice and it is now up to that government to try to prevent it from falling over. they can count on the help of the european union and the support of this parliament, but they must be responsible and do what every people has the right to demand of their governments: that they look after the common good, put aside their rivalries and their interests and work to bring the country out of the deep crisis in which it is mired. thank you very much, your honours. we'll work with them to get it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. the political and humanitarian situation in lebanon has deteriorated further over the past year. the country is facing challenges from 1.5 million syrian refugees, food shortages, economic hardship and political instability. the circumstances of the explosion in beirut a year ago remain unclear, and those responsible have not been held accountable, causing significant social tensions. as maronite patriarch al-raï pointed out, corruption has plunged the country into its current crisis. we must support lebanon in overcoming this. after the civil war in lebanon, muslims and christians were able to resolve their conflicts with each other. today we are faced with a radically changed situation. we must take into account that lebanon is the center of the economic and banking sector in the middle east, so the current crisis could escalate into a regional crisis with unforeseen consequences. in the current uncertain political situation, there is a high risk that extremism will be encouraged. this must be prevented by any means necessary. the eu has a vital interest and historic responsibility in standing by lebanon. it is vital for the people of the country that eu support continues to reach communities in need efficiently and in a targeted manner after the madad fund is closed. this must be ensured when planning development aid.
the next item is the report by mr andrius kubilius, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the direction of eu-russia political relations (2021/2042 (ini)) (a9-0259/2021)
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, allow me to congratulate the rapporteur, mr kubilius, and all the members who have been working on this draft report, adopted by a large majority in the committee on foreign affairs (afet). i think that the report describes accurately where we stand in our relations with russia, which are more difficult than ever, building on the joint communication and the june conclusions of the european council, although the debate in the european council was mostly about ‘summit yes or summit no’ in the relationship with russia. i think that the deliberate policy choices of the russian government over the last years have been creating a negative spiral in our relations. the list of provocative actions by russia is long and continues feeding a dynamic of escalation, which i regret because i have always been in favour of talking with everybody when we need to talk. it has become difficult and i have experienced that directly. our discussion today is very timely because next week we are going to have next week the un general assembly (unga) in new york, and it may be an occasion to engage again in talks with the russian representative. there is also the issue of the crackdown on russian civil society and opposition. ahead of this month’s duma election, some of the priority actions that you identified in your report – support for civil society and their relentless efforts to defend democracy – remain as important as ever. the russian regime is one thing but the russian people are another thing, and we have to be with the russian people, supporting their civil society. on that, allow me to say that our unity should be our biggest asset in our relations with russia because it’s clear that russia wants to divide us. they say that clearly, they don’t care about european union. they prefer to avoid it. they want to talk with a member state directly and not with all of them, only with the ones that matter. so yes, certainly russia wants to divide us and, in the face of any attempt to divide us, what we have to do is try to remain united, which is, believe me, not always easy. in any case, russia remains our largest neighbour and it remains an important global actor, although not from the economic point of view. russia’s economy is more or less the same size as italy’s, much bigger in surface area, but economically speaking, it is a medium—sized state. they have a lot of gas – and gas is becoming more and more expensive, which is good news for them and bad news for us – they have atomic weapons and they have an important army, and they use it when they need it. but, in any case, russia will not disappear. it will be there and it’s not going to change overnight. so we should explore a path that helps us gradually to change the current dynamics into a less conflictual, more predictable and stable relationship. this is the work of diplomacy – with whoever – to try to work for a less conflictual, more predictable and stable relationship on the issues in which we are interested. let’s talk about mr navalny. i know that i went to russia to express directly, in front of the russian leadership, our concern about the situation of aleksei navalny when he was in front of the tribunal that condemned him, and since the assassination attempt on mr navalny we have held a number of discussions in the european parliament, the foreign affairs council and the european council, but mr navalny remains in jail. so our collective ambition is not only to have a less conflictual relationship, but also to continue defending people like navalny. don’t forget him. don’t forget the people who have been supporting him. this has to be done by building on the implementation of the five principles which have given us purpose, an approach in which our interests and values can be defended. i want to remark here that the june conclusions of the council are very clear, including the full implementation of the minsk agreement. in some days, we will go to kiev to have the association agreement council with ukraine. i would like to think of a new partnership with russia but today it’s a distant prospect. under the present circumstances, to take the full potential of a close cooperation with russia is not on the radar screen. it’s a distant prospect. we must therefore look at the state of eu—russia relations in all their complexities and at a realistic way forward. with this in mind, the european council tasked me, as high representative, and the commission to prepare concrete proposals on how to take forward this multifaceted relationship, and we try to resume that with these verbs – three verbs that were mentioned by the rapporteur – to push back, to constrain and to engage. i think these three verbs summarise well how we have to develop our relationship with russia. to present options for additional restrictive measures, to develop options for engagement on areas such as climate, environment, selected issues of foreign and security policy, and multilateral issues like the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa), where i have to recognise that russia is playing a constructive role on syria and libya. the russians are very much present in libya and more and more in the central african republic, which is worrisome. to this list we should add afghanistan, where there is a need for increased cooperation, including as regards the regional approach after the takeover by the taliban and its consequences for regional and international security allies. russia will also be affected by the new situation in afghanistan and is not going to be in a safe land with respect to the risk of widespread terrorism in the area. finally, we have to put forward people-to-people contacts and support civil society, human rights organisations and independent media. such a thing exists in russia, and we need to support them. as you also rightly point out in your report, our reinforced cooperation with our eastern partners and support for democracy remains at the top of the european union’s interests. we cannot be an island of democracy in a world of autocracies. we cannot survive as a democracy if we are surrounded and in the middle of a world that has a different political system. it is in our interests that our system be shared by as many people and as many countries as possible. that’s what my services are trying to put forward. we are working on that and we stand ready to brief the european parliament, the committees of the european parliament, on all these issues. so thank you very much for your work. thank you very much for this report. this is a complementary work with one that we are doing. i thank the rapporteur and all the members that have been working with you on it.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to praise the excellent, relevant and incisive report done by andrius kubilius, as well as share his faith in the principle of democracy first, which must be the core of any eu strategy on russia. at the same time, we must be realistic about the relationship we can have with moscow in the near future. in the span from my own 2019 report on eu-russia relations until the report by mr kubilius, the kremlin has only added more dark episodes to an extensive track record. to make it perfectly clear, there is no reason for optimism regarding the direction of the current russian regime and of eu-russia relations. european leaders must not fall again into naive delusions about resets or dialogues with putin’s regime, which clearly shows that its disregard for international law, human rights and peaceful conflict resolution is not the exception, but the rule. and finally, it is time for europe to invest in reinforcing our commitment to the eastern partnership countries, strengthen our own resilience to russian hybrid warfare and continue engaging with russian civil society.
on behalf of the s&d group. the european union needs a new impetus and decisive action in its relations with russia. five years after the adoption of the strategy against russia, it seems we are still in the same place. russia is destabilising our close neighbourhood, interfering with democratic processes within the union, spreading hostile propaganda, and financially supporting anti-european forces, religious fundamentalists and anti-vaccine movements, all while unfortunately finding allies in the union. it also impedes a peaceful resolution of the conflict with ukraine and fuels further conflicts around our borders. let's be frank, russia has never taken the union seriously, rather as a postmodernist whim of history. he's trying to divide us so he can make it easier for us to follow his policies. we must stand together to defend the european union's defence, energy, cyber security policies and our values. if russia continues to violate international law, undermine our union, persecute minorities and democratic forces in our immediate neighbourhood, we must be prepared to use stronger arguments, such as excluding russia from the swift settlement system or freezing european assets of kremlin-linked individuals. we will always stand with democratic russia, against autocratic russia we cannot be weak and divided.
mr. chairman, please! for more than 20 years, russia's domestic and foreign policy has become increasingly brutal and based on the use of force, initially against its own citizens, as in chechnya, and gradually also against other states. attempts to answer the question of the reasons for this behavior indicated that russia has very limited means of influence abroad other than military force, that mr. putin does this to discipline russian society and to strengthen personal popularity or support for his party. without rejecting these interpretations, i would like to point out another, perhaps the most important, reason. russia is rebuilding its traditional empire and striving to recreate the former soviet union to the fullest extent. where there is a low risk of using force, it does so, as in the case of crimea. where it can achieve its goals without the use of force, it does so, for example, through economic and political dependence, as in the case of belarus. russia is interested in weakening the encirclement and in stopping or blocking the rapprochement of its former territories with the west. the maintenance of numerous frozen conflicts serves this purpose. the disinformation aggression against us is designed to weaken the west, as is the corruption of states, parties and politicians. what was only a possibility is now a reality. this is a very dangerous action, destabilizing the situation around russia in the long term, increasing the risk of conflicts, including armed conflicts. it is also necessary to understand this fact if our conceptions of relations with this country are to be free from naivety.
mr president, once again today, i would like to appeal for realism in our policy, not to be naive. russia is not part of the solution, it’s in most cases part of the problem. the russian federation creates problems and plays the role of honest mediator, honest broker. it’s also an illusion to think that we can change and democratise russian society. this nation was built in the last three centuries, towards imperialistic direction and goals. one generation is not enough to reverse the process. we have to try, and i thank mr kubilius for trying. however, the more pending question is to slow down and stop russian imperialists, to press russia to cease its illegal action against georgia and ukraine, influence russia to stop supporting lukashenko’s hybrid action against our part of europe. it is not an appeal to solve the abovementioned problems together with russia, it is to force russia to stop harming these countries.
madam president, politkovskaya, litvinenko, skripal, nemtsov, navalny. these names speak for themselves. just in the last few days, we have the consummation of the union of russia and belarus. we have the completion of the nord stream 2 pipeline and we have the aggressive military exercises called the zapad. let’s remember that russia was welcomed into collaboration with the west. this organisation offered it partnership and cooperation agreement 1, and we were due to have a partnership and cooperation agreement 2, which was an association agreement in everything but name. we were supposed to be on a converging trajectory, but mr putin, who had a chance to modernise his society and his institutions, instead went for the traditional way – foreign expansion and foreign policy swagger at the expense of the interests of the russian people. he now finds what dictators always find: that if you’ve stolen too much and killed too many people, you can’t go back. his interest is in the alliance of autocracies. the interests of russian people is modernisation. i believe he will go down in history as someone who prepared russia badly for the challenge of rising china. in the meantime, we need to deter him, therefore, i support the kubilius report.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, china is, of course, a communist dictatorship with everything that concerns human rights. but its communism is native born and, under communism, china has modernised. in fact, the rise has been awesome. it contains a quarter of humanity and has an ancient culture worthy of respect. china has committed grave errors and crimes such as the cultural revolution. abandoning the deng doctrine of hiding your strength and playing for time is also, i believe, a mistake. there’s also a looming debt crisis. europe and the united states should act together, even though our interests are not identical. the challenge for us is how to trade with china while remaining a good ally of the united states. i therefore welcome the creation of the trade and technology council. we should collaborate on everything with the united states except the military field, while, of course, maintaining the arms embargo. i commend this report, which tries to put forward the following doctrine: collaborate with china where possible, compete where needed and confront where necessary. madam president, just before coming into this chamber, i learned that the british house of commons and house of lords have jointly decided to exclude the new ambassador of china from the premises as long as some members of the uk parliament remain subject to chinese sanctions. i see colleagues here in this chamber who have also been sanctioned. in solidarity with them, i propose that we adopt a similar principle.
mr. chairman, please! poland welcomed the withdrawal of the requirement to extend the scope of the subject matter directive to include applicants for international protection. poland, along with other member states, was strongly opposed to such solutions. we are critical of the inclusion of new categories of third country nationals in the sectoral directives, as they already cover key categories of economic migrants. these issues should remain the responsibility of the member states, i stress, the responsibility of the member states. we share the view that the needs of the eu labour market and competitiveness in the fight for talent require action to attract highly qualified workers from third countries. however, in our view, this cannot be done at the expense of destabilising legal migration systems. and while we're on the subject of legal migration, may i express my highest respect to the border guards who today guard our external borders against illegal migration. and i especially bow to the officers and officers of the polish border guard who today guard the polish-belarusian border against the provocations of the belarusian and russian satraps.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i welcome the brexit adjustment reserve, which is a needed support for the many affected by the united kingdom’s withdrawal from the european union. coming from poland, i am pleased we can access funding from the reserve, which will be of vital support to those facing the challenges i described. once adopted this week, our aim must be to quickly implement the programmes of support, benefiting from the reserve’s contributions and pre-financing approach. with this model, i am pleased that we can deliver timely support as companies explore new markets and new opportunities. i am also happy that we can fund resources for our returning citizens who re-enter our domestic labour markets and bring those skills and experience back into our countries and our local economies. managing change is not easy, but it is of great importance that we are able to recognise the breadth of the challenges faced in our region and deliver the support needed by our citizens. with this reserve, we are ensuring difficulties are addressed, and i am pleased to offer my support for this measure.
mr. chairman, please! a new special brexit adjustment reserve of over €5 billion will support people, businesses and countries affected by the uk's withdrawal from the eu. the end of 2020 marked the end of the post-brexit transition period and, with it, the end of the free movement of people, goods, services and capital between the union and the united kingdom. at the same time, the inevitable disruption of economic, commercial and social relations has become apparent. it was therefore rational to create a fund to allow member states to offset, or at least minimise, the effects of brexit. as regards the proposed solutions, those aimed at the predictability of the fund should be welcomed, in particular the allocation of the entire amount at the outset, which will strengthen the predictability aspect of the planning of the expenditure incurred, the distribution of the pre-financing granted in three annual tranches, which will allow a significant reduction in the national budgets of the net payers, and the extension of the eligibility period until 2023. the commission will need to cooperate with the member states in order to make full use of the main principles of this instrument.
mr. chairman, please! madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! we ask today what the state of the european union is, so we can say this: the facade of our european home is beautiful. the chairwoman added a little color to it today, but it's a mess. why would you do that? yes, because the european institutions are increasingly taking decisions outside the treaty and increasingly breaking the principles and values that were once the foundation of our common european home - the christian values, the principles of tolerance, equality and all that they entail. the president has called robert schuman here several times today. so i would like to remind you that for him and the founding fathers of the european union, this foundation was very important. so i have a question: on what basis, both treaty and moral, does the european commission want to punish regions, municipalities and provinces which publicly express their support for the traditional family model or for christian values? what provisions of the treaty allow the rule of law to be combined with the disbursement of european funds? where in the treaties is it written that arbitral decisions by an individual official of the european institutions can decide whether the legal system of a member state is compatible with eu law or not, when it is the law of sovereign member states? the european union is for europeans. it is our common home and it is to serve the people of europe, not the european institutions, which want to increasingly appropriate our common european home.
madam president! our future will be what we build europe. we want a europe that is active, united, efficient and strong. this is the expectation of our citizens. yes, the union should be for europeans and the poles as europeans also expect to be active in climate policy, because this is a great challenge. in education, the younger generation is looking for solutions like the alma program. we expect very strong cooperation on health. health care is not just about pandemics and pandemic effects. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new guidelines for the fight against cancer. this is one of the challenges that really interests citizens, and citizens want a europe that works. there's also the rule of law. european funds must be spent as intended, they must be transparent, they must be protected, they must reach citizens, businesses, local governments, the final beneficiaries and no government can put itself above the law, no government can expect impunity. that's why i wanted to say from this place that 88% of polish society, poles, are people who see their future, declare their desire to be in europe, because they see security, protection and opportunity for development here. in the bicameral polish parliament, law and justice has a minimal majority in only one chamber, not in the senate. that's why the polish people will defend freedom of speech, will defend tolerance, will defend democratic principles, will defend our place in europe. i am sure of that and i would like to declare it here, and the attacks by government representatives on the european union, on the commission, sometimes shameful, are only a sign of weakness and impotence. a united europe and a less powerful poland is our future.
president, madam president of the commission, you have spoken out loud this morning that the european union is continuing to take away the powers of the member states, to further expand its power and to further reduce the size of the member states. this is no longer european cooperation. this is a unitary state in the making. let me give you the vision of parties coming together, 16 national parties and 114 members of this parliament, representing citizens who are committed to the freedom of nations and the traditions of european peoples. we welcome european cooperation, but european cooperation is failing, especially as countries feel that they are slowly being deprived of the right to exercise their legitimate sovereign powers. the eu is increasingly becoming an instrument of radical forces who want to use their 'social engineering' of the past to create a europe without nations. we are convinced that the cooperation of the european nations must be based on tradition, respect for the culture and history of european member states, respect also for the common values which unite our nations, and not on their destruction.
madam president, after one year, where are we? in the face of the pandemic, an eu that is adamant in defending the interests of multinational pharmaceutical companies, including by opposing the withdrawal of patents. the mobilization of community funds has only just begun, and it is conditional on and subordinated to the priorities defined by the eu and not based on the realities and problems facing each country, nor aimed at overcoming the deficit of countries such as portugal. the draconian restrictions of the stability pact must be re-imposed, the dictatorship of the deficit which it has promoted must be reinstated, public services, particularly in the field of health, must be degraded. what is required is the definitive repeal of this pact. a social summit which confirmed the intention to pursue convergence in important areas. the pretence, the pretext of the green transition, the deindustrialization of some, the consequent unemployment and the increase in dependence. a cap that maintains an unfair distribution and promotes the concentration of production. these, like others, are policies which do not serve the people, particularly the portuguese people.
mr president, i would like to thank president von der leyen for speaking so eloquently of the union’s challenges. president von der leyen, it is too bad that you were not very precise, but i presume you were referring to spain. yes, mr sánchez is not talking of dialogue; yes, nine political prisoners are finally home after years in jail – but the prosecution of catalan dissidents, including state espionage of political opponents, goes on unrelenting. yesterday it was announced that 13 activists will have to stand trial on terrorism charges that are totally fabricated. so what is mr sánchez’s proposal? political and cultural repression, economic suffocation, submission. but the catalan people will not give in to fear. on saturday, hundreds of thousands marched on the streets of barcelona. their message was loud and clear: we catalans have the right to self-determination and we voted to be independent on 1 october 2017. no other political movement in europe mobilises popular support and has the resilience of the catalan cause. in spite of spanish repression and in spite of indifference from the institutions of europe, we shall overcome.
madam president, the last two years were a testing time for the european union, but here we are; we are still standing. however, the next year must bring us decisions on various important topics. first, how to reform the stability and growth pact. in the short term, we still need to address the health, social and economic consequences of covid. yes, we must return to stability criteria, but this requires a transition. a premature withdrawal of stimulus measures will only harm our economies. in the long term, the fiscal rules need to change so that they will not kill investment and growth. we have a pandemic behind us and a digital and climate transition ahead. an ambitious focus on a digital and green revolution needs flexibility in the rules, and this is what we will insist on. from the trade perspective, we expect the commission to be engaged in the process of reactivating the negotiating function of the wto, ensuring the proper functioning of the dispute settlement mechanism, and making sure that we can better address future value chain distortions. finally, we insist on the introduction and implementation of the mandatory due diligence rules aimed at all companies in the eu market whose actions cause harm to the environment, workers and human rights. the upcoming year should bring us change. we hope that, with this commission, it will also have a social dimension at heart.
madam president, this has been an incredibly tough year, but we are now seeing the light at the end of the tunnel and looking to our economic recovery. we need to get back on our own two feet and regain competitiveness as soon as possible. we now have the money, but the policies we adopt and the kind of business environment we create will determine how we emerge from the crisis, and how quickly. the approach we take on digital and climate transitions are key. while we shape this new digital decade, we must be careful to avoid overregulating, which will just hold our companies, especially smes, back. we need them to be free to innovate and thus, to grow. we must fight the isolationist and protectionist tendencies in the name of european sovereignty. we can be strong and open to the world. we can have strategic crisis reserves, but still be open to free trade and open industry. without a global alliance, we will just fall further behind other world powers. now is not the time to hide, but to get into the game. we all want to protect the environment, but we have to take into account the impact on the lives of our citizens. it was a mistake to include private houses in the emissions trading system (ets), and we need to fix it. the policies we adopt in brussels must be about making lives better, both for our citizens and our businesses. we must make policy with and for our citizens, not against them.
madam president, i would like to thank president von der leyen for her state of the union, which had quite a lot of good proposals. but of course, in one minute, i will have to focus on the criticism. president von der leyen, you will understand that. first of all, on the green deal, you probably still have to explain to your own group that the green deal is the jobs deal – they still don’t get that. so there is work to be done there as well. but also, in your own college, i have the feeling that some of your colleagues are feeling a bit like, ‘after fit for 55, our work is done’. the work is only beginning. for example, on state aid, we do expect the commission to deliver here as well. i’m also looking at ms vestager for that. on corona vaccination, it was a bit too self-congratulatory, because global vaccination is our key challenge now, and here covax is not enough. mentioning a state of the union without using the word ‘patent’ is a bit of a problem. and the last point, on the rule of law. you absolutely had good words on that, but now you have to apply the instruments that you have had since 1 january, because the rule of law is really our basis of a european union with the soul that you want.
madam president, madam president von der leyen (who i can no longer see), ladies and gentlemen, let us leave aside yet another dream book and concentrate on a budget which has some light, yes, but also too many shadows. the idea of a common debt to finance the recovery is good, but the delays, the political conditionality against governments that do not align themselves with the commission's dictates and the attempt by too many to return us to the season of austerity, which risks thwarting the recovery, are bad. we would have expected family and birth policies, but instead she's bowed to rainbow lobbyists. we would have expected new life in the real economy, and instead we have the green ideology of the green deal, which imposes an unsustainable burden on our businesses and makes us more dependent on china. it's more than strategic autonomy. we would have expected the defence of the external borders from uncontrolled immigration, but instead we have new records of landings and very few returns. we would have expected europe to be a major player on the international scene, but after afghanistan, we only know about refugees and fundamentalism is spreading again. we want a different europe, mr president, one that does less but does better, one that respects the subsidiarity and sovereignty of the national states. it is the only europe that can really work.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i'm narrowing it down to five priorities. serious changes to the stability pact on deficits and debts, so as to support sustainable economic growth and social cohesion and avoid a new debt crisis and a new savage austerity in the european south. bold measures and more money to reduce the social inequalities that are dangerously increasing across europe. action, not just words, to stop the provocative tax evasion of powerful and big corporations that do not pay taxes. more ambitious targets to tackle the climate crisis, as scientists are calling for, and a stronger community budget with new own resources. it doesn't just take a good reason. it takes bold action.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am sure you are aware, mrs von der leyen, that the state of the union speech was intended to paint a realistic picture of the eu. let's draw! just now, the percentage of ex-convicts in the executive ranks has increased once again. the council is now chaired by the slovenian monk janez janša. he was investigated by three eu countries, he was in prison for corruption. cyprus health commissioner kyriakides cannot conclusively explain the receipt of four million in her family account shortly after the vaccine contracts were signed. the eu now seems more than ever to be a well-oiled apparatus for shifting tax money to the private sector, with rhetorical and ethical zeroes at the top. the state of the union is best described by the fact that in germany, people are not talking about the eu, but in the eu, they are talking about germany. 16 years of merkel has divided europe cleanly. i apologize to all my fellow citizens in the east, west, north and south for always putting the interests of the german economy before their own, and i can assure you that this will continue for the next 16 years.
madam president, i'd like to thank you for your speech. i think that what europe needs now is vision, but it also needs security and stability until it can emerge from the various crises it is in. crises, as you said, have always been our strongest allies, because they force us to evolve, and they give us a painful signal of where we're going wrong and what we need to change. and so i think we've created many of our institutions that today make our union stronger. but i wonder if europe has learned from the refugee crisis of 2015? have we forgotten what she did to our union? have we forgotten the fears it has instilled in our societies? have we forgotten that it was the crisis that fueled the engine of the extreme populists? it's as if, with the pressure on our borders reduced, we've forgotten all about it. after what happened in afghanistan, our unlearned lessons could prove to be a huge failure for europe. on our doorstep this time are people who are even more alien to our culture, but in even greater need of protection. so i'm wondering what we've changed to better assess who we can accept and who we can't. our borders may soon be at great risk. but what did we change about their security? have we made frontex a real border guard? i think countries like bulgaria, greece, malta will have to take on the main stream of asylum seekers again. is that why we changed the dublin regulation to evenly distribute the burden? do we want to turn countries like bulgaria, greece, cyprus back into open wounds of europe? do we have a plan? i think that europe would certainly look frivolous if it did not learn from its own experience, and i hope that we can all work together in the various institutions in this direction.
madam president, since 2019, your commission has made important steps, notably with the european green deal and the health strategy, and we have to thank you for that. but the pandemic we're experiencing is not an isolated health crisis, and you know that. we are in the midst of a meta-crisis inherent in the capitalist system - social and economic crisis, ecological crisis, political crisis. our great challenge is to solve all of these crises, and this can only happen through deep questioning and action, because our current policies and our way of life are in constant conflict with our planetary and human limits, and that is what needs to change. our political group, through our president iratxe garcía, has already put forward a first set of strong political proposals, from the anti-poverty law to the reform of tax rules, a social rights framework, respect for human rights and the real transformation of the european semester, based on sustainable welfare rather than on gdp alone. but you will also have to strengthen the union's strategic autonomy and to do so, participate in the reform of the global multilateral system by reactivating, among other things, the wto; to pave the way for a genuine transformation of our agricultural and food model and, more broadly, of our economic, social and ecological system; the commission will also continue to support the development of a european strategy for gender equality, in close connection with the global agenda of the un sustainable development goals. and it is on the basis of these requirements that our group will assess whether your commission is up to the task that europe and humanity as a whole have to face.
madam president! two years ago, i hoped that your commission would be a time for reform and development, not a time for maintaining the status quo. it's time for civil society and scientists, not lobbyists. the list of issues to be addressed is long: social inequality, violence against women, lgbtiq rights and climate catastrophe. the fight against climate disaster requires ambitious goals and swift action. for two years now, ngos and scientists have been alerting the commission. europe needs courage. it doesn't take much courage to be in the energy and transportation sectors. it takes courage to admit that agriculture is also to blame. it takes courage to stand up to the meat lobby and start a real reform of the common agricultural policy. if mr. timmermans and mr. wojciechowski don't have the guts, then maybe they should resign. we really don't have time.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i do not want to repeat what my group colleagues have said on the social dimension, on migration policy and on the rule of law. i think that the commission's proposals are either too late or too unambitious. i don't have to repeat that. let us not be late on the industrial policy challenges. thirty years ago, europe had three major chip manufacturers. today we are dependent on imports. this is one of the many dark sides of globalization. today we must make a great effort to rebuild our own capacities. let us be very quick with your proposal to the commission. and of course, to create a level playing field, there's a supply chain law that fights against inhumane production conditions. thank you for a law against forced labor. but does it also take into account child labor, outrageous safety standards, or the exploitation of natural resources? this too would be a measure for global justice and for the protection of european jobs.
president, commission president, the eight budgetary hawks, including the netherlands, are lying in wait. in your speech last year you spoke of a balance between financial support to member states and sustainable public investment. we therefore hope very much that when new budgetary rules are drawn up, green and social investment will be spared excessive austerity. this is necessary for the climate package, but also for reducing social inequalities. also, make sure that financial markets can be a driving force behind sustainable growth and so don't let the hawks shout too loud. when it comes to sustainability, i also ask for attention to be paid to social sustainability. truck drivers are longing for a humane version of the mobility package. more and more europeans are moving from flexcontract to flexcontract. no rights for workers, no duties for employers. we really need to separate the wheat from the chaff and that is why we ask you to take up the revision of the posting directive.
madam president, congratulations to the president of the commission on a very fine speech: one hour in duration during which she didn’t drop a note, so to speak. i think it is only right that you should refer to covid—19 and the successful vaccine deployment in the eu, the need to be prepared for future pandemics, and the eu’s help to third countries. i was also encouraged to hear your words on digitalisation, semiconductors and the carbon-neutral economy. i noticed you never mentioned the ‘b’ word – brexit: perhaps an intelligent omission, and a message in itself. but as the only irish mep speaking in this debate, i would like to take this opportunity to praise the steady, practical and mature approach taken by you, by the commission, and especially the diligent and ongoing work of vice—president šefčovič, negotiating and finalising our future relationship with the uk. the eu must create mechanisms to engage with civil society and political structures in northern ireland to ensure that the protocol works, and i know we’ll have your full support for that, madam president. when appropriate, i intend to lead a trade delegation of meps to northern ireland to hear the views of those on the ground, those who are actually affected. we have a responsibility to listen and to try to solve the problems, and we must not take this responsibility lightly. finally, a pet theme of mine: daylight savings. president juncker tried to end this outmoded practice – perhaps you could finalise that.
madam president, by the way, i think it’s super cool that two women are leading this debate today. thank you very much. keep fingers crossed! pani przewodnicząca! schuman powiedział, że europa potrzebuje duszy. pani przewodnicząca dodaje dzisiaj, że duszą jest praworządność. jeżeli tak jest, pani przewodnicząca, to zapraszam do działania. to, co zrobiła komisja do tej pory w sprawie praworządności, jest daleko niewystarczające. mija połowa pani kadencji, a w polsce w tym czasie tylko pogorszył się stan wymiaru sprawiedliwości. w 30% naszego kraju wprowadzono strefy wolne od lgbt. polki mają dzisiaj w polsce mniej praw, niż kiedy polska wchodziła do unii europejskiej. coraz więcej mediów ma przez polski autorytarny rząd nałożony kaganiec ograniczający ich funkcjonowanie. potrzebujemy dzisiaj zdecydowanych działań. i jeżeli to jest za mało, to być może dzisiaj jest pora, żeby komisja europejska zaproponowała specjalny pakiet dotyczący silniejszej ochrony praworządności w poszczególnych krajach unii europejskiej. zachęcam do tego.
in writing. the annual state of the union debate is a unique opportunity to learn about the priorities of both the european commission and the community as a whole. this year, the challenges we all face are unique: tackling the health and economic crisis caused by covid-19, climate change, the digital agenda and the conference on the future of europe are among the most important. but we must not forget such fundamental issues as the defence of the eu's external borders. we are witnessing unprecedented activity on the eu's eastern border, where a hybrid war is being waged on the border with belarus. such a policy of exploiting refugees for political purposes by the regime of president lukashenka, with the approval of the russian government, cannot be allowed to continue. these actions test the solidarity and determination of the whole union, and the lack of a firm and coherent response may encourage an escalation of actions that should never take place at the eu border. i am therefore concerned to see that there is no adequate response to these actions, including in this debate. i would urge you to remember the foundations on which robert schuman built the european union. it's christian values, the principles of tolerance and equality. if one does not share these values, one should at least respect them, instead of fighting a regular battle to replace them with leftist ideology and all that it entails.
the next item is the report by mr sven giegolda, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the implementation of eu requirements on the exchange of tax information (2020/2046 (ini)) (a9-0193/2021).
madam president! every year in the european union, we lose about 140 billion euros in corporate tax losses, which can be spent on health, on disaster relief, on education. the exchange of tax information while respecting the competences of the member states has an invaluable impact on the fight against tax fraud. when we successfully defeat them, we see how vast sums are stolen from our budgets and our societies. however, we cannot apply further regulations without dialogue with the business community, for whom an even more detailed reporting system would be a costly and time-consuming burden. entrepreneurs should be in business, because it is the key to our common prosperity and european success. we have six directives in place on the exchange of tax information. two more to go, and we're not able to effectively deal with european tax havens or golden passports. did you know that only 4% of the 50 data items transmitted under the dac3 directive were used? we have no data on the effectiveness of the directives implemented. is it therefore necessary to plan further changes to the detailed income and assets reporting by the business? does the provision of information on previous price agreements where the protection of the financial performance of the company is the most important factor not infringe the principle of competition in the single market? let's make good use of the tools we already have, and let's improve and monitor the collaboration. we must not allow some member states to apply the minimum requirements in such a way that the to a greater or lesser extent.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. despite the increasingly close cooperation on the exchange of tax information between member states and third countries since 2013, the value of tax revenue lost by eu budgets is not decreasing. according to the rapporteur, this amounts to between eur 160 billion and even eur 190 billion per year for corporate tax avoidance and eur 50 billion for personal tax avoidance. without calling into question the purpose of this cooperation and the exchange of tax information between the tax authorities of the member states, it might be worthwhile to propose at member state level the introduction of additional taxation for large companies that have revenues of less than one per cent of their turnover. in my country, poland, the government wants to introduce such an additional tax next year. i hope, commissioner, that the european commission will not challenge this solution, as it did with the trade tax. i would remind you that the commission, by challenging this polish solution, ultimately lost it in the court of justice of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, let me stress what this discussion is about. it is about what 75% of our citizens expect of the eu: to intervene more against tax fraud. in times of an economic, social and health crisis, we cannot afford to lose more funds from taxes. but we are failing. member states don’t exchange relevant information amongst each other, don’t implement eu legislation on tax cooperation, and seem not to trust other member states and institutions on tax matters. here’re some news for the member states: it will be impossible to fight tax fraud of many big corporations and rich individuals without help from you. what will you give up if you don’t have funds from taxes due to your lack of cooperation: schools, social support, or health? trust is key. and as the parliament, we’ll be pushing you to put your pride aside and join forces in this cooperative fight.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 16 september 2021. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the pegasus spyware scandal (2021/2879 ((rsp)).
i am not going to say that the commissioner has not been consulted. chairman robert metzl is right that this debate simply should not be. it's a fact of life that free speech is the pillar of democracy, the foundation of democracy. in a democratic world, there's no point in even talking about it, because it's the obvious. it is clear that every citizen has a right to know. he has a right to know who's stealing, who's raping, who's cheating. he has a right to know who's protesting and why. and no authority, no government that doesn't grant concessions, or shut down the media, or buy the newspaper, doesn't solve this problem. societies know this very well. and with that power, they'll settle their accounts in due course. the poles are a proud people, a free people, and they have never been muzzled. and i wanted to take this opportunity to appeal to you, following the words of ms. wiśniewska. don't say poland and poles, because democracy is demolishing law and justice. it's the one party that has a minimal majority in one of the two houses of the polish parliament. the poles were not muzzled during the communist regime and they will not be muzzled today. polish society will defend freedom of speech, will defend democracy, because that is the character and the characteristic of our nation. poland will be democratic and will be in europe.
madam president! on behalf of many poles and poles as a former deputy ombudsman i want to apologize to you today. we are talking about poland's problems again in the european parliament, instead of talking about the future, about development, about strengthening the community, instead of looking for ideas on how to protect the european economy, how to fight social inequalities, how to counteract the climate catastrophe, we are talking about poland again. violation of the independence of the judiciary, violation of lgbt rights, violation of the fundamental rights of women - now all these violations have been attempted to silence independent media. in this parliament, we should agree, despite the political divisions, that without a free media, without freedom of speech, without the right to information, there is no modern european democracy. madam vice president, colleagues, colleagues, i beg your pardon. i wish i could say that this will never happen again, that this is the last time we'll talk about poland here, but i'm afraid i can't promise you that for now. i'm sorry about that.
madam president! a lot of exaltation, a lot of emphasis in the mouths of my speakers. but imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a country in the european union where the prime minister sends special services to the editorial board of a weekly newspaper to stop the material because it is critical of his government. imagine a country where politicians force the police in that country to arrest fans for putting up ridiculous banners in stadiums aimed at that prime minister. imagine a country that denies rights to a marginal catholic tv station, while having all the other media in its hands. imagine a country where a judge, having a high-five with the prime minister in a stadium, is ready to change the date of the trial over the phone. you know what country that is? this is the country of the civic platform, the platform that is your ally. the politicians in this room said when they were democratically removed from power that we would take this government down in the streets and abroad. and what they're doing is exactly their script. one of the meps present said: "we will find the herd". oh, that's it, the guy with the poppy. the poles have removed you. the poles support law and justice. poland is a democracy, and this prattle about alleged violations of the rule of law is another version of a soap opera.
madam president, this parliament is very concerned about the problems of the rule of law in poland or hungary, and rightly so; but it is very little concerned about the degradation of the rule of law in spain... and it hurts, really bad. freedom of the press must be protected at all costs, in all corners of the union. we cannot look the other way when it is threatened in poland, but the independence of the judiciary is also fundamental to our democracies, and the union must not look the other way when it is spain that is trampling it. a few days ago, the head of the spanish pp's justice department opened an interview with this headline: "the pp has the support of the majority of the judiciary". don't be such a fool. in spain, politicians who want judges to choose their government do not do so to have a more independent judiciary, but on the contrary, to control it. another pp official, already confessed, in 2018, that the objective of his party was to control the criminal chamber of the supreme court from behind. how long are we going to play this double standard? do they not realise that by remaining silent about the violations of the rule of law in spain, we are giving free rein to the rest of the union's member states, such as poland, to follow suit? if you continue to play with fire, you will not know how to put out the fire of the violation of civil and political rights throughout the union.
madam president, free and independent media and an independent judiciary are key foundations of any democracy. it is always strictly demanded from candidate countries before they can join the eu, and it’s the absolute minimum that we should expect of our member states. sadly, it’s this absolute minimum that the polish government consistently fails to meet. and this new draft bill, the so-called lex tvn, is nothing more than an expression of desperation from a government that wants to have total control over its citizens, a government so desperate that it even had to resort to a second, illegal vote to push this law through the lower house of the parliament. it’s a sign of weakness because a government that is afraid of a free and critical press is, in essence, a government that is afraid of its citizens, afraid of real scrutiny by the people on the merits of its policies and achievements. this is not just an internal polish issue. an attack on polish media is an attack on european media. it’s an attack on our shared european values, and it’s encouraging to see the protests in poland in defence of free media, in defence of our european values, just as it is encouraging to see the senate in poland rejecting this draft bill, as it shows that there is still strong opposition in polish society against the attacks on the rule of law from this government. these polish voices on the street also look to europe and we should hear that call. we fully support last week’s decision to bring poland again before the european court of justice (ecj) and demand penalties, and it’s exactly this kind of decisive action that we need to defend the rule of law in europe, and we want to see that same decisiveness, commissioner reynders, also when it comes to a proper follow-up on the implementation of the rule of law conditionality.
madam president! i always wonder at a time like this, when here in the heart of european democracy, debates are taking place about poland, why you, united in the demolition and occupation of polish democracy, the right-wing, who by all means change the word "patriotism", bring it to this? what has this democratic european and civil poland done to you that you hate it so much, that you are bringing it to disaster on the international arena, that you are appropriating more and more independent institutions, you are disabling more and more fuses of the democratic state and using the tactics of salami, patch by patch you are destroying the young polish democracy? you've completely demolished the public media, and now it's a cesspool, a cesspool, a hate speech, a party propaganda pipe for big public money. now you're dreaming of turning off another fuse - the biggest commercial station that just looks at your hands and reports another malfunction in the treasury companies, yours and your sons-in-law's. in poland, the pis script written in cyrillic is happening before our eyes. it is no coincidence that the law and justice meps did not support the european tariffs on russian products. and believe me, civil society is terrified of this, because for generations, it's been the dream of being in the european union. and i'm standing here to testify to that. on behalf of millions of poles and other citizens of this country, i am shouting: poland is not pis.
madam president! well, every tv station in poland can work. but he has to do it according to the law, which is not only in poland, but in europe. but that's a whole different story than your stories about how this tv is objective. for this tv station, for example, there is no constitutional court, there is only the court of the trench. they're changing their constitutional names, destroying state institutions. for them, all the judges appointed during the leftist, liberal, totalitarian communist times are legal. and those appointed under the conservative government are illegal. they're not judging. they say that germany has less political participation in the judicial appointment system, when anyone who can read knows that the opposite is true. they promote gender ideology, ridicule patriotism and lukashenka's narratives about the crisis on the eastern border of the european union. you like it because anything that destroys poland from within is good for you, so that poland can never join you. because the poles are good for you, but for picking asparagus and strawberries. but the poles are not inferior to you and will not be treated like that. and you'd do well to write that down. and if you want to talk about politicizing the justice system, check it out. recently, a politician, the vice-president of the cdu, went straight from the bundestag to court. what's the matter? and that's not politicising? it's just a shame, a shame for the country.
madam president! once again, we have heard a lot from the eu authorities about the rule of law in poland. i'd like to confront them with a concrete example. on 13 july this year, the polish prime minister met ms von der leyen in brussels. after the meeting, the prime minister informed the public at a press conference that the issue of respect for the rule of law was not raised by the head of the european commission, but by himself, and only marginally. the prime minister compared the ongoing article 7 procedure to, quote, 'a buzzing wasp in the room that has unnecessarily flown in through the window and that needs to be let out so that important matters can be dealt with calmly by the european commission'. together with two colleagues, meps belka and cimoszewicz, we asked the commission in writing if it was possible that in her conversation with the polish prime minister the president of the european commission did not address such a fundamental issue as the rule of law, given such a crucial opportunity to do so. we also asked whether the commission considered that the conditions for the introduction of the rule of law mechanism under article 7 no longer existed, so that it could be trivialized by comparing it to a buzzing wasp. after two months, we received a letter from the commission, which unfortunately does not meet the requirements for a reply. so we repeat our question again, giving the commission a chance to try again to answer a simple question in a simple way.
mr. chairman, please! today's discussion, in which poland is falsely accused of breaking the rule of law and attacking the media, is nothing more than treating poland as a second-rate state. that's the discrimination against poland that's being used in this room. what else can you call it? other eu countries can create mechanisms to protect their internal media market, and poland is accused of attacking free media and breaking the rule of law? the amendment to the radio and television act is nothing more than an attempt to clarify the already existing law, and not an attack on media freedom in poland. we want to protect our internal media market from interference by countries outside the european union. these actions have nothing to do with the violation of the rule of law and the attack on free media. if other countries can do it, why can't we? why should poland be punished for solutions that work in other countries? they are not threatened or punished. and democracy in poland, ladies and gentlemen, is being destroyed by the opposition, which cannot accept losing another election.
mr president, dear colleagues, the first priority of the institutions of the european union is to defend eu values, and top of the list of european values are freedom of the media and rule of law. the fact that we are discussing today the situation regarding the rule of law and freedom of the press in poland is a clear signal that there is a problem in poland, and it is a clear signal that the european parliament wants to help. we are on the side of the people of poland. checks and balances of the democracy in poland were affected. they have to be restored. this is our first clear message. the attack on the functioning of the constitutional tribunal and on the supreme court, and now more recently on independent media, are against eu values. this has to stop. the same is valid when it comes to the relation between politicians and institutions. institutions are here to serve the people, not politicians. the media as well. the media has to inform people, not please politicians. the media has to report the truth, not what pleases politicians. this needs to be valid in every single member state of the union, and the same in poland. we as parliament want to help the people of poland, so do all institutions. there are many eu benefits for the people of poland in the near future. we hope the polish government will not be an obstacle in the desire of europe to help the people of poland.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today the european commission promised in its state of the union that next year there will be a law on media freedom to guarantee the independence of journalists. this is very necessary because the situation in poland is becoming more and more acute. the current government's intolerance towards the free media is actually growing by the day. journalists are intimidated every day. the press is subject to a new kind of advertising tax which, ironically, is intended as a solidarity campaign for the development of free media. the state broadcaster is in fact reduced to a mouthpiece of the government and private media houses of non-european ownership are heavily restricted. vigilance in poland is more than necessary. the european commission has already taken a first step today and put forward a recommendation to better ensure the safety of journalists in europe. good work, commissioner, but also make sure that this is actually done on the ground. the european parliament will not let this matter rest.
mr. chairman, please! the enemy of the poles is the one who takes away the freedom of his countrymen, and the friend of the poles is the one who demands the rights of the poles. the enemy of poles is the one who insults poles and deprives compatriots of the right to marry, and the friend of poles is the one who fights for respect, freedom and equality for all poles. the enemy of the poles is the one who is implementing putin's goal in poland, and putin's goal is polexit. a friend of the poles is someone who defends european standards in poland. the enemy of the poles is the one who divides poland with its allies and makes a new alliance with putin's supporters, and the friend of the poles is the one who wants a strong poland in a united europe. poland is polish, and 80% of poles want to be in the european union and feel at home here. the enemy of the poles is the one who calls our community the occupier and the soviet union, because he insults the memory of millions of poles who died at the hands of the real occupiers. the enemy of the poles is the one who wants to decide what the poles can know. the enemy of the poles is finally the one who says that the poles are a dark people who will buy everything the authorities say. and the friends of the poles are free, independent of any power media. we know who's who.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! first of all, i want to make it very clear: i am against violence, any form of violence, whether it's mental, physical, economic, sexual, against harassment, harassment both online and offline. i am particularly sensitive to the harm done to women and girls in the european union. i'm thinking about forced marriages and female circumcision. unfortunately, this practice is still going on in the european union. but i also want to make it clear that i am against an instrumental approach to such a serious problem. the fight against violence against women cannot become a tool of ideological struggle, and this is unfortunately an ideological project. please note that the concept of gender is not a treaty concept, nor is it a concept like patriarchy or lgbt. as a result, there can be many inaccuracies in the application of the law, and the lack of clarity in the case of criminal law leads to uncertainty and potential abuse. the need for protection from violence. this is a very important challenge. too serious to use as an excuse to impose ideology. the implementation of such concepts not only fails to prevent violence, but may even hinder the implementation of effective solutions. it will thus have the opposite effect of what it claims.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, violence against women and all other forms of gender-based violence, whether online or offline, is one of the most widespread and unpunished violations of fundamental rights and freedoms. it often causes death, it causes disability, and it was just a few days ago that we heard the news of yet another femicide, yet another woman, wife and mother murdered by her husband in my region, in calabria. recognising gender-based violence as a new area of crime will make it possible to combat it more effectively on a common legal basis, with regard to the definition of offences and sanctions. but in addition to a harmonised legislative framework on aspects relating to the prosecution of offenders, prevention, failure to report and protection of victims, targeted action is needed at the social and economic level, so as not to exacerbate inequalities, as happened during the pandemic. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, eight women have been killed in italy in the last week. the last one today, a few hours ago, in vicentino. in europe, we know, we have one victim every six hours, and so i want to be very clear, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not and cannot be a women's problem just because women are the victims. this immense crime against humanity is about the very definition of our civilization. think about it, we don't share the same rights, because there are significant differences between different countries. we have no freedoms in common. the only thing we have in common, because we are women, and i would say because of the guilt of being born women, is that we are the object of violence. this is a genuine social and political emergency which we must put at the top of our priorities and our action. the inclusion of violence among the eurocrimes, that is to say, among the very serious crimes for which we have and will have direct and binding jurisdiction, would help us to equip ourselves with a series of effective instruments to finally take an important step towards equality and the fight against violence. so, ladies and gentlemen, i expect this house to pay attention, not to provide an alibi. i expect this house to be understanding and not to make excuses, as we all too often hear, not the usual excuses for not being on the side of women. i expect, ladies and gentlemen, a vote in favour, loud and clear, to say that yes, this... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament can stand with women today. parliament can today vote for equality, for freedom, for security, for opposing one of the greatest pathologies of the 21st century, which is gender-based violence. the vote on the proposal to decriminalize such violence is a historic moment for all women in the union. anyone who doesn't support him is de facto on the side of the perpetrators. let us show by this vote that we are fed up with the empty words of the european commission, which only promises and plans instead of acting against gender-based violence. we will use the tools available to us as parliament and call for an amendment to article 83 of the treaty. it's our duty, it's our duty to all women who have experienced and who are experiencing violence.
president, in the eu an average of seven women are killed every day by their partner or ex-partner. that is just the tip of the iceberg, because below this number are the thousands of women who are regularly beaten by their partner or ex-partner and thus live in constant fear. it's high time these women stood up for themselves. in a situation like this, women have to make their own decisions and leave. member states have a duty to take in and protect these women. this proposal seems to be aimed at extending the eu's powers. this makes the victims part of a political game. as i do not believe in the need for an eu-wide approach and as this form of crime is not transnational, i shall vote against the proposal. even if gender-based violence is not included in article 83, there are improvements that can be made, such as sharing best practices and increasing transparency by member state on progress in this area. it must be clear to everyone that safe living, working and living is the norm.
madam president, violence against women is a violation of human rights. it causes untold suffering, takes lives, leaves countless women living in pain and fear in every country in the world. it harms generations, impoverishes societies and encourages other forms of violence. one third of the women on the planet have been victims of violence. it is present in all cultures, in all countries, and it takes many forms. all of humanity would benefit if we could end it. and it is not inevitable. we need a common european policy against gender-based violence, and including gender-based violence in the list of criminal offences with a european dimension in article 83 would help to have a common definition, to combat such violence with common criteria. it would improve cooperation and therefore take an important step, with the announcement made today by the commission, in the fight against such violence. that's it, all right. but to introduce the idea that the refusal of abortion in the member states is gender-based violence would be tantamount to saying that malta practices gender-based violence. that is unacceptable. peace cannot be ideologized. doing so introduces a partisan political message into a crucial issue and jeopardizes the final outcome. there must be unanimity in the council. we must therefore say that peace and human rights are not and cannot be an ideological adventure. i have a disabled son. i would never, for the sake of an ideological issue, jeopardize the equal opportunities of my son and the disabled.
i have to say, madam president, if you need more reasons to support the report we are voting on today and tomorrow, i would like to give you a few. the reasons are simple and represent the everyday life of europe. structural violence: social conditions that restrict women, unequal power relations, unequal life chances, assigned role situations and also, of course, the denial of possible access to abortion. physical violence: abuse, physical assault, kicking, hitting, women are burned, women are spat on, women are pulled by the hair. they're being treated like cattle. sexualised violence: rape, abuse, sexual coercion, rape with objects - photographs are taken, films are made. prostitution, pornography. i know. psychological violence: intimidating, abusing, humiliating, belittling, psychological terrorism, stalking, controlling, texting, which is what i'm going to do. economic violence: women not getting the money they deserve. if you still need reasons to agree, open your eyes and look at what is happening in europe every day.
i have to say, madam president, every day a man in germany tries to kill his partner or ex-partner. it happens every third day. every third day, a femicide takes place in germany alone. these aren't family tragedies or even love murders. these are brutal patriarchal crimes that do not fall from the sky, but thrive in a society where women are still subjected to constant sexism and violence. i was elected to this parliament seven years ago and i cannot tell you how many times i have heard: yes, violence against women is bad, but it is not the european union's job to act against it. the time for escaping must be over. if we want equal rights and if we take seriously the european union's promise of equality, we know very well that equal rights are an illusion unless we put an end to this rampant violence against women. and for that, we need the full implementation of the istanbul convention, an eu directive against gender-based violence. and yes, we also need governments in the member states to finally take this problem seriously and tackle it concretely.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. one in three women in the european union has experienced or is experiencing psychological, physical, economic, sexual or cyber violence. this situation has enormous costs and social damage, which is why we cannot stand by and watch. there is no comprehensive strategy at eu level to combat gender-based violence and member states' legislation on this issue is full of gaps. the reluctance of some politicians to take a strong stand against violence against women is also increasingly evident. in addition, not all member states have ratified the istanbul convention. we also hear about the idea of terminating it, which means that women, who are 90% of the victims of violence, are deprived of full legal protection. or you could say that a government that spends money on politics instead of fighting violence, that denies women the right to in vitro, that does not stand up for women who are fighting for their rights, is a government that uses some form of violence. that is why i am calling on all political groups to make violence against women, gender-based violence, a criminal offence in the european union. we owe it to all the victims of violence. and one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. today, for every 30 women who speak out on this issue, only 4 men do. so i hope that men in the european union are seeing this problem, because without their support and understanding, it will be difficult to change the sad reality of thousands of women.
madam president! i can't imagine what it's like to be raped. i can't imagine what it's like to be a woman who's afraid to go back to her own home, to a place that should be her sanctuary. i can't, and that's why i'm so angry and so damn determined. the ratification of the istanbul convention is frozen in the council. it is an act of international law and some member states that fight domestic violence only in words are effectively delaying it - we know this all too well - but we have a chance for eu legislation in this area, for an eu directive that will actually oblige member states to fight domestic violence, gender-based violence. let's not waste this opportunity. the european union is not only an economic community, it is also a community of values. it's a place where we should all feel safe, just like home. i urge everyone to support the report under discussion. this is a step in the right direction.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. agricultural production in the european union is of great importance for global food security, as we have been the world's largest exporter of agri-food products for many years. the cap is about to undergo a major reform, and the next big challenges facing the cap are dealing with the long-term effects of brexit, the severe reduction in the eu budget as a result of the uk's withdrawal from the eu, or the effects of the covid-19 pandemic. this complex situation should lead the commission to undertake a comprehensive review of all the latest strategies and programmes, such as green deal, next generation eu, fit for 55, farm to fork, biodiversity, and to examine whether their cumulative effect, while beneficial for the environment, will not be detrimental to the viability and, consequently, the future level of agricultural production in the european union. it should be noted that the european union is the world's largest donor to food security, spending billions of euros a year on global food security, strengthening resilience to crises and improving sustainable agricultural development, including in third countries. in doing so, the european union is helping to combat malnutrition, increase food availability and improve access to food for those at risk of hunger. to continue to do so, the world needs a strong, resilient, viable and efficient eu agriculture, and let us hope that the reformed cap will meet these challenges.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, we’ve got to look at what the eu’s contribution to global food systems will be in the future and what’s planned if we’re to be serious about this. mercosur: i’m hearing about mercosur for a couple of years now – quite a few years. no one seems to agree with it in the agriculture committee, but it still seems to drive on. importing beef when we already produce enough beef here in europe. at the same time, through schemes like beam (beef exceptional aid measure), the commission incentivises local producers to reduce. here in europe, we incentivise the more sustainable producers to reduce to allow the intensive to drive on. mercosur puts sustainable food systems second when countries like germany and france and others want to sell more cars. one of the biggest causes of hunger is war. many eu countries sell weapons around the world, which lead to famine. why do we accept this? if the eu wants to contribute to sustainable food systems, then it needs to start by getting its own house in order, put an end to mercosur, put an end to profiteering from the production of weapons, which lead to chaos and famine. if not, then we won’t come close to achieving the goals by 2030.
madam president, the importance of the agricultural sector is a reality that cannot be ignored. according to the fao, by 2050, the world's population will be 10 billion, which is an increase of 2 billion. at the same time, data shows us that today, globally, 33 million people cannot afford a hot meal once every two days. the demand for food will increase in the future, and the soil, which is a limited resource, will have to provide that area, or sometimes even less, with higher production. the agricultural sector is a complicated one and, i would say, not very easy to manage. agricultural production is highly dependent on weather and climate conditions and is therefore one of the most vulnerable sectors. in this context, the biggest challenge will be for the agricultural sector in the european union and worldwide to adapt to climate change, which requires adopting practices with minimal impact on the environment. farmers around the world will therefore face a double challenge: first, to achieve high yields, and second, to protect nature and biodiversity, which can only be achieved through the implementation of innovative technologies. at the same time, we must be aware of the difficulties faced by small and medium-sized farmers in developing sustainable farms or structures. their importance is overwhelming in the agricultural ecosystem and in what it means to fight hunger, but without the implementation of modern, applied and advanced technologies that allow high-quality production, these farms will not be able to survive. but we have to start from another undeniable reality, which is that investments in these technologies are costly. today, many farmers, especially small and medium-sized farmers, cannot afford to buy them, which makes it necessary to partner in agriculture to develop sustainable agricultural systems, and the member states and the european commission need to financially stimulate this. the european union must become a global food provider to combat world hunger effectively.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that the commission has a duty to take account of the fact that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. you spoke at the beginning of the debate about world community. you said there'd be opportunities for everyone. you spoke of hunger, of food crises. but i think you have consistently come to the wrong conclusion, namely that europe should feed the world. we don't have to. we're supposed to take our hands off each other's land so that each other can feed themselves. we are the ones who need land so that we can import soybeans for our animals, for example. we are the ones who are destroying markets by exporting surpluses, including milk to africa. that is to say, we are confusing food markets with our european agricultural policy. and i would like to hear from you just one more time: is it so that europe, in your view, should feed the world? or are we supposed to make sure that all the people of the world can feed themselves well? that would be a good agricultural policy, and that would be the future!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against hunger in the world is one of the main tasks of the united nations. it is also an objective that must unite us all, regardless of our political views. the figures available tell us, alas, that we are not on track to eradicate world hunger. in 2020, 800 million people suffered from hunger, about 100 million more than in 2019. there are many reasons for this failure: corruption and incompetence of the leaders of some countries. the climate change or the covid-19 pandemic. but the european union also has its share of responsibility, which i want to denounce today. by giving in to ultra-liberalism in its trade agreements, it has diverted some countries from sustainable agricultural practices from which they derive their livelihoods: our milk powder has ruined dairy farms in senegal, our frozen chickens have destroyed chicken farms in ghana... we must replace this free trade, which leads to economic and social decline, by the development of diversified food systems based on respect for local agriculture. i doubt, alas, that the european union is capable of hearing this message.
mr. chairman, please! even before the covid-19 pandemic, the world was struggling with a worsening food security situation. but the growing problem of hunger in the world has been overshadowed by the covid pandemic. the covid-19 crisis has exposed the weaknesses of our food systems. millions of farms in formerly food-secure regions of the world have become severely food insecure. we have a pandemic of hunger, and that's a fact. i agree with many of my previous speakers, and i will not repeat the solutions they have mentioned here because they are important. but let's look at it from another angle. safe access to water is crucial to ensuring food security in developing countries. according to the united nations, water scarcity affects 40 percent of the world's population and is projected to increase. another problem we need to address is food waste. it is estimated that the food currently wasted in europe could feed 200 million people. that's another problem we should look at. we also have to fight against the growing inequalities. in peru, for example, the current rate of stunted growth is nearly 13 percent. inequalities in stunting are evident between rural and urban areas. growth retardation affects 25.5% of children in rural areas and 8% in urban areas. the european union, as the leading donor of official development assistance, should be a leader in global cooperation to strengthen and resilience the world's food systems.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. all the indicators available show that we are not on track to achieve world hunger zero by 2030. the union should reflect before renewing and strengthening its commitment to eradicate hunger and ensure the right to adequate food in the world. experts warn that the green deal will disrupt the ability of the world's population to feed itself, and our place in the global food expansion market will be taken by other countries without a wink. the experts' report clearly shows that the implementation of the green deal will lead to a collapse in agricultural production in all sectors, a drastic decline in production efficiency and, therefore, in the value of eu exports of agricultural products. scientists estimate that the european union's cereal crop will fall by 11%. the same is true of milk and other raw materials. as we have seen, the union has other aims than the elimination of hunger in the world. commitment to the world seems inappropriate given the current policies of the european union. to help the world's growing citizens, the union should buy surplus food from farmers and give it to those who are starving. it can also help by sharing its cutting-edge crop and livestock technologies that yield the highest yields and highest meat production.
mr. chairman, please! most of us agree that the social impact of the pandemic is as dramatic as the economic impact. my predecessors have addressed a number of very important issues. the pandemic has been a bitter lesson for all of us. it has shown the inefficiency of social, health and rehabilitation services, particularly affecting the elderly and the disabled. commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to the dramatic impact of the pandemic on the mental health of children and young people. i've been a co-organizer of several seminars and meetings that have been devoted to this issue, and i have to tell you that the reflections of experts, parents, teachers and young people themselves are startling. childhood and adolescence are especially sensitive times. sadly, for years we have seen a disturbing trend of increasing mental illness, depression, and worse, suicide attempts among young people. in addition, significant deterioration has been the access to therapy and rehabilitation. it is worth noting that the family, which is the primary support system, has often found itself in very difficult and serious trouble. children and young people will decide the future of europe. if we don't invest in their well-being today, in supporting their mental health and their full development, we could lose an entire generation. i therefore strongly urge you, commissioner, the european commission, and governments and administrations to take appropriate measures to counter the negative impact of the pandemic on children and young people. i would like to emphasise once again that promoting mental health and well-being is a priority for the european commission.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! we are discussing a phenomenon that is reprehensible to all of us in this room. it is clear that the fight against corruption should be a priority in any democratic state. but it is also impossible not to agree with my predecessor, mr jambacki, who rightly pointed out that whether someone is guilty, also in the area of corruption, should be decided by an independent court. i'm confused about something else entirely. namely, there was no will to have such a discussion when the issue of the us sanctions on nord stream was being discussed. there was no will to have such a discussion when there was a real chance that we could block with the help of our american allies this project that is undermining the energy solidarity of the european union, which is the nord stream 2 project. moreover, following the lobbying activities of some meps who supported the german-russian alliance and were critical of the us sanctions, the european commission also expressed its criticism. it has not been noted that germany's partner is putin's russia, where corruption is the order of the day, and human rights are violated at virtually every turn. it is also regrettable that during yesterday's important speech by president von der leyen there was no reference to this european solidarity-defeating nord stream 2 project.
madam president! the united states has imposed anti-corruption sanctions on bulgarian oligarchs, and where is the european commission's reaction to the lack of rule of law in bulgaria? the german weekly der spiegel points out that the commission has done little to tackle corruption in bulgaria for years. the weekly notes that the eu's recent rule of law debates have focused on poland and hungary, and the member state with the highest levels of corruption and the lowest rule of law scores has been quiet. he describes bulgaria as a convenient partner of the union in the east and writes about the particularly good relations between the bulgarian prime minister and chancellor angela merkel. the weekly said that the fact that the us is intervening to protect the rule of law in the eu shows its inability to handle such a matter on its own. it's hard to disagree with that. it is also worth noting that the european commission applies different standards to the evaluation of member states. the commission referred to the sanctions imposed and acknowledged that the united states had the right to do so, thus washing its hands of the matter. the failure to act reflects brussels' lack of determination to fight corruption and promote the rule of law in bulgaria. the question remains: why?
madam president! the communist military regime in cuba closed july with 272 convicted political prisoners in just 20 days and 2,080,000 detainees. all this after the regime's brutal repression of cubans who peacefully demonstrated during and after the july 11th protests. there is public evidence, confirmed by many detainees, that the torture suffered by the victims of the july 11 protests in cuba should be considered as a crime against humanity, committed by the state on a mass scale against a defenseless population for purely political reasons. the situation of one of amnesty international's prisoners of conscience, hamlet lavastida, is of particular interest to my country, poland. this cuban artist was arrested on june 26 after arriving in cuba, after an artistic residency in berlin and a quarantine. he entered cuba with the intention of obtaining a new long-term polish visa in order to take care of his minor son, a polish citizen. our embassy is appealing for his release.
madam president! after the brutal suppression of the largest anti-government demonstration in half a century on july 11, the cuban communist regime has used numerous repressive measures against the population, including mass arrests and mock trials, to intimidate and silence cubans. independent cuban media reports that the regime in havana has ordered the temporary release of common criminals to serve their purpose of incarcerating the demonstrators. there is evidence of torture. in response, under the magnitsky act, the us administration imposed sanctions on cuban military leaders. despite the repression by the regime, protests and demonstrations have spread throughout the country. in most cuban cities and towns, people took to the streets demanding freedom, the removal of the communists from power. foreign ministers from 20 countries, including poland, condemned the mass arrests in cuba and called on the cuban government to respect human rights. where is the european commission? will the commission support the right of cubans to peaceful demonstration and free expression and their right to freedom?
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 16 september 2021.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the case of human rights defender ahmed mansoor in the united arab emirates (2021/2873 ((rsp)) *. look at the minutes of the meeting.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. 10 years in prison, a quarter of a million dollars fine, held in an undisclosed location without access to a lawyer, no contact with any family, torture after arrest. what crime must one commit to be subjected to such repression? it turns out that all you have to do is be critical of those in power and write a critical opinion on your social media profiles, like twitter or facebook. the year 2019 has been declared the year of tolerance in the united arab emirates. it is regrettable that the situation we are talking about concerns a country which is on the one hand our important partner in the gulf region and on the other hand, it should be noted, in comparison with other countries in the region, a country that is far more liberal and open. we all remember the very important reception of pope francis by the authorities of the united arab emirates and the mass celebrated in that country for christians, which was very important for christians living in that region. that's why it's so important that we do everything we can to put pressure on the authorities in the united arab emirates to release the poet ahmed manur.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 16 september 2021.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the situation in the kakuma refugee camp in kenya (2021/2874 (rsp)) *. look at the minutes of the meeting.
the author. - madam president! - i have to go. kakuma camp in kenya is home to nearly 200,000 refugees, mainly from sudan, but also from congo, somalia, uganda, and burundi. a team of the united nations high commissioner for refugees has presented the government of kenya with a roadmap that includes the alternative of voluntary return of refugees to their homes under conditions of safety and dignity, departure to third countries under separate arrangements, and the option of staying in kenya for refugees from east african community countries. the european union provides basic humanitarian aid to refugees, and the european union trust fund for africa supports projects to empower them. in order to avoid the premature and unprepared dismantling of kakuma, the commission must continue to co-finance humanitarian aid, strive to ensure that refugees in the horn of africa are welcomed in accordance with the principle of receiving them in their region of origin, and put pressure on the government of kenya and the high commissioner to continue dialogue to find appropriate legally-based solutions to these processes.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! kenya hosts tens of thousands of south sudanese refugees and hundreds of thousands of somalis. refugees from the civil war in south sudan remain a problem throughout the region. it is estimated that there are about 500,000 refugees from all over kenya in the two camps, dadaab and kakuma. ladies and gentlemen, there's been a lot of talk. i am surprised to hear arguments like this that we have to today as the european parliament to bend over the suffering of only those people who are, so to speak, from one community - the lgbtq community. the crime, the violence against anyone, regardless of their sexual orientation, is something that is reprehensible and these crimes should be condemned. but let's remember that we're talking about a situation where this suffering and this crime is affecting almost half a million refugees from countries like sudan, eritrea, ethiopia, somalia, where people are persecuted not just because of their sexual orientation, but because of their religion. of the 50 countries where christians are persecuted, 14 are in the horn of africa. let us remember this and not create some new religion or gradation of suffering. the suffering of lgbtq people is as important as the suffering of christians, muslims, people of any other religion, or people of any sexual orientation.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 16 september 2021. (the sitting was suspended at 12.26 p.m.)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. biodiversity is essential to life. more than half of the world's gdp depends on nature. the commission's report focuses on the need to address the root causes of biodiversity loss and restore ecosystems. the report highlights the positive aspects of the dependence of agri-food systems and smallholder farmers on biodiversity; the recognition of the rights of indigenous peoples and their knowledge and experience in combating biodiversity loss and environmental degradation; and the fact that environmental crime is a global threat to nature conservation and sustainable development, stability and security. unfortunately, the project has some drawbacks. we do not support the inclusion of the right to a safe, clean, healthy and sustainable environment in the charter of fundamental rights, the introduction of a system of criminal sanctions and multilateral environmental agreements. the ecr group will therefore abstain.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. once again, the european union wants to intervene in matters for which it has no competence. i would remind you that family policy, criminal law, health, education and childcare remain the domain of the member states. to be clear, women and children must be protected from all forms of violence by their partners. and more than that, we need to protect every human being from domestic violence. the resolution accuses poland of withdrawing from the istanbul convention, and yet the question of poland's possible denunciation of the convention has been referred to the constitutional court. i would remind you that poland has already introduced, among other things, a law that allows the expulsion of perpetrators of violence, we have introduced a blue card that protects individuals and families at risk of domestic violence. among other things, these actions have made poland the country with the lowest rate of violence against women in the european union. let us not forget that good law is one that is not only enacted, but above all enforced quickly and effectively. so, in conclusion, yes to protecting women and children, not to deny reality.
mr president, commissioner, last year 27 women were killed in portugal in the context of domestic violence. violence against women and children is a scourge we have dealt with for a long time. our authorities, our courts, act late and often ineffectively. in my country, there is still a feeling of impunity among offenders. verbal assaults, and even physical assaults, rarely make it to court, rarely get convicted, and even when they do, the result is almost always a suspended sentence. gender-based violence is intolerable, it violates the basic principles of the european union, it violates human rights. i therefore welcome the rapporteurs and i support all their recommendations, in particular that the commission and the council consider gender-based violence to be a particularly serious crime with a cross-border dimension. but i also argue that we should go further: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
mr. chairman, please! i am very concerned that almost all meps are taking part in the previous debate on violence against women, and it is our duty to stand by women, to stand up for women. being a feminist is sexy. feminists are also needed for information balance. and it might seem that some things are no longer happening in the 21st century, but unfortunately domestic violence is still a huge problem in many countries of the european union. and it all starts, as it always does, with words, and then there are actions, broken families and broken lives. because we let it. because we turn a blind eye. because you don't clean dirt outside your own house, and often because it's only at your neighbor's house, and we have a thousand more important things to do. no woman can be silent when she or another woman is being hurt. and the same should apply to men. violence has always been with us, but it doesn't have to be forever.
member of the commission. – mr president, with today’s report, the european parliament shows once again its commitment towards the full inclusion of persons with disabilities. this is key to achieving a union of equality for all. i thank the rapporteur, mr alex agius saliba, the committee on petitions, the shadow rapporteurs and the other associated committees for their observations. the right to submit a petition to the european parliament is one of the fundamental rights recognised by the eu charter. petitions are also a precious source of information for the commission, for instance, in order to identify existing gaps. as your report points out, many barriers for persons with disabilities still remain, notably as regards accessibility, employment, education, the right to live independently in the community and mobility. i welcome your ideas and recommendations, and i look forward to our exchange today. we agree that adopting a human rights approach is essential to ensure that persons with disabilities can effectively participate in all fields of life on an equal basis with others. the new strategy for the rights of persons with disabilities that the commission adopted in march is our joint tool to improve the lives of people with disabilities in the eu and beyond in the next decade. embracing a human-rights approach, the strategy supports the eu in implementing the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and helps member states in their efforts. it takes into account the diversity of disability and promotes an intersectional perspective in its implementation, a point emphasised in your report. over the next years we will roll out a number of actions and flagship initiatives, notably to improve accessibility, independent living and access to services, free movement and labour market outcomes for persons with disabilities. these are among the key concerns raised in the petitions that the european parliament has examined and which your report highlights. eu funds, including under the cohesion policy and the recovery and resilience facility, will play a key role in achieving these objectives. as noted in your recommendations, the commission will continue to support member states in ensuring accessibility, which is a precondition for autonomy and equality. the european accessibility act has been a milestone. the commission will launch next year a european resource centre – accessible eu – to increase coherence and accessibility policies and facilitate access to relevant knowledge. fighting discrimination and barriers is our common goal. only half of all persons with disabilities are in employment, and this of course needs to change. we will step up our efforts in this area. next year, the commission will present a package to improve the labour market outcomes of persons with disabilities, seeking cooperation with the european network of public employment services, social partners and organisations of persons with disabilities. persons with disabilities have an equal right to live independently and be included in the community. by 2023, we will issue guidance recommending to member states improvements in this field. we agree that eu funds should support independent living, including the shift from institutions to services in the community. to improve service delivery for persons with disabilities and enhance the attractiveness of jobs in this area we will present by 2024 a framework for social services of excellence. persons with disabilities should enjoy all rights on an equal basis with others, including when moving to another member state. the commission will propose the creation, by 2023, of a european disability card. it will build upon the ongoing eu disability card pilot project, with a view to being recognised by all member states. i welcome your support for this initiative and stand ready to exchange further. to achieve these objectives and implement this strategy successfully, we need coordinated action at both national and eu level, with a strong commitment from member states and regional and local authorities. we will work closely with the member states, persons with disabilities and their representative organisations, the european parliament and stakeholders. we all have a responsibility to take the needs of persons with disabilities into consideration when designing, implementing and monitoring policies, legislation and funding programmes through targeted action and mainstreaming. as you reiterate in your report, we call on all eu institutions and bodies, agencies and delegations to designate disability coordinators for their institutions and for their disability strategies. i count on our continuous cooperation to make the union of equality a reality for the 87 million persons with disabilities in europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. the report highlights the many difficulties faced by disabled people. it is clear that disabled people need special support. their rights and dignity must be protected, and assistance must be provided in areas of particular importance to them, such as health and education, to enable them to participate fully in society and in the labour market. the resolution also talks about digitalisation as an opportunity to integrate the most vulnerable groups in society, but also as an investment in the right digital skills. but it's important to separate the real need to help those in need from the imposition of ideological issues. the resolution should not mention the istanbul convention, which contains harmful elements such as the idea of gender as a socio-cultural choice that can be made freely. for this reason, the ecr group will not endorse the above-mentioned report.
mr president i've been working here for 12 years. progress has been made: the first version of the report already included a number of important elements that previously had to be fought for separately. thank you for standing up for deaf people and sign language. however, i strongly reject the view that the report does not focus exclusively on people with disabilities. it brings up the issue of intersectionality, it addresses the issue of migration and god knows what else that doesn't fit into the disability category. colleagues, this is counterproductive, as long as we don't solve the situation of disabled citizens! i would like to bring you one data point: only 50.8% of disabled workers are employed. this house is not safe, and tomorrow is not safe, so let's just deal with this. i ask that the organisations representing disabled people be involved in this work in order to enforce the principle of 'nothing about us, nothing without us'. the committee on petitions is taking the lead in this, and i hope that the european parliament itself will do the same in the future.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. it is a very good and necessary document, and i would like to thank the rapporteur and the co-rapporteurs, of course. the report is, in my view, very comprehensive, very reliable and very reflective of all the issues that have been raised in our committee. i would like to draw particular attention to the fact that the document is also in an easy-to-read format. unfortunately, this is not always the case, and i thank inclusion europe and autism-europe for this, because it is obvious and crucial that the people who are affected by this report should be able to read it. the european union is, ladies and gentlemen, in the process of digital, green, architectural transformation, and all these issues have been noted in the report. this is a huge opportunity for people with disabilities and for people who are elderly, or seniors. however, it is necessary to ensure that digital services meet the highest standards of accessibility, so that new technological solutions do not create new barriers but remove them. and i am very pleased that in our committee these issues are very often raised and are a reason for progress in this accessibility.
mr president, in january 2011, the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (uncrpd) came into force here in the european union, but member states, but also a little bit the european union, have failed to fully promote, protect and assure equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms by all persons with disabilities. efforts must be made, and i am very confident that the new eu disability strategy, presented by helena dalli, after a participatory process, will ensure better social and economic inclusion. the report that we discuss today highlights the need for better monitoring of the compliance with the uncrpd by the commission, but moreover by the member states, and i want to recall that we should not forget to include persons with disabilities in this monitoring process. the report recalls that 1% of petitions deal with disability rights when up to 87 million eu citizens have some form of disability; 1% is not enough, and it shows how difficult it is to make the voice of people with disabilities heard in this process. i am proud that my political group fully supports the annual workshops and hearings on the rights of people with disabilities organised by the committee on petitions, which allows close cooperation with the commission, with experts, with the fundamental rights agency, with the european ombudsman and representatives of civil society, such as the european disability forum. it is only together that we will be able to achieve the ambitious aims of the commissioner’s strategy. the excellent work of our rapporteur, alex agius saliba, sheds light on the absolute necessity to ratify the optional protocol of the uncrpd. it will allow individuals to submit communications to the committee on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) on alleged violations of their fundamental rights by a state party to the crpd. five member states and the eu haven’t ratified it yet, so we should stop being hypocrites. we all talk about participation, but we haven’t ratified the protocol which allows participation for individuals.
the commission has already done so. i welcome this report with all my heart. the number of petitions on disability rights shows how acute and widespread the problems are still. people with disabilities must have access to inclusive schooling and training, be able to live independently and in community, be able to travel freely and flexibly, have a chance in the regular labour market, have access to personal assistance. this is not just a matter of laziness or even sympathy, but human rights. inclusion in all areas of society should not be just an option, but a given. this paradigm shift has not been fully realized everywhere. one of the report's demands, such as the eu-wide disability card, will soon be a reality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it could give many people greater protection in all areas of life. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen! this report addresses many of the issues that need to be addressed to help the 87 million people with disabilities living in the european union in their daily lives. we want people with disabilities to be accepted and appreciated, because although we are all equal, each of us is also unique. the report repeatedly calls for concrete action by the european commission, the european union and the member states. this shows how much more needs to be done to ensure that people with disabilities can fully enjoy their social, political and economic rights. the report covers many areas of importance to disabled people, such as employment, education, health and social protection. in addition, there are also issues that may not necessarily be relevant from the point of view of the disabled person. we need to focus on the things that matter, the things that will actually improve the lives of people with disabilities, while rejecting the things that have nothing to do with actually helping people.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the covid-19 pandemic has not spared people with disabilities, whose situation has often worsened. i therefore welcome the opportunity to congratulate my colleague alex agius saliba and to discuss this own-initiative report, which has the merit of being based on multiple petitions on the issue of disability that have been addressed in recent years and which require a response, namely proposals for improving existing legislation and its better application. i would like to highlight a few of the valuable proposals which seem to be decisive for better protection of individuals at european level. firstly, the mutual recognition of the status of disabled person in the member states, which will finally remove a major obstacle to the right to free movement and to settle in another member state to work, study or for any other reason, with the prospect of developing a european card for disabled people by 2023. secondly, accessibility is a key issue. the 2019 directive has certainly been a step forward in harmonising accessibility requirements for certain products and services, but we need to go further and remove the persistent restrictions on its scope. finally, some advanced measures concern access to the labour market for disabled people. these are crucial ways of ensuring autonomy and dignity for all.
i thank the rapporteur, the commissioner, the members of the commission and the members of the european parliament for the report and i would like to say that it is a very realistic, but somewhat critical, statement of the situation of those whose voices we may not hear loud enough. we have heard before, almost a quarter of europe's adult population has some degree of impairment or disability and the protection of people with disabilities is, of course, something that the european union and each of its member states should be working on. more than ten years ago, the european union acceded to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and, of course, we committed ourselves to promoting, protecting and monitoring the rights of persons with disabilities in all segments of implementation. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. i strongly support the eu's accession to the convention and all international instruments promoting the protection of persons with disabilities, but the fact is that implementation is not the same in all member states. so i have a great example from croatia, my country of origin, which was the third country in the world, before many more economically developed countries, to ratify the convention and the protocols to it. the ombudsman for disabled people has been in existence since 2008. in 2017, we adopted a national strategy to integrate people with disabilities into the community, make everything more accessible to them, and of course, bring them into the labor market. the greatest progress in the quality of life of persons with disabilities has been achieved in the past five years, and there is a clear vision for the period ahead. protect the rights of disabled people, i will say at the end, and work diligently to improve their quality of life... (the president interrupted the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as long as there is a debate or a provision on the rights of disabled people, it means that there is a problem and that there is still a lot to be done. this resolution highlights the responsibility of everyone to take action in defence of those who face obstacles and discrimination every day and are deprived of the freedoms and fundamental rights on which the european union is founded. today parliament is certainly taking a step forward to make the european union's action in defence of almost a quarter of its citizens who suffer from a form of disability even stronger and more credible. in this resolution, the european parliament does not limit itself to statements of principle, which are sometimes neglected or little considered, but commits the commission and the member states to take concrete action to improve the quality of life of many people with disabilities, but above all to remove the physical and cultural barriers that prevent social and economic inclusion and generate odious discrimination that undermines the fundamental right to equality. there are many points of agreement in this resolution, but i would like to stress the importance of the commitments made to prevent violence against women and the commitments made to overcome the employment and pay gap for women with disabilities, which adds to and amplifies the equally deplorable one affecting the entire female sex. finally, i would like to emphasize that this report is the result of numerous petitions submitted by many european citizens in the interests of millions of other citizens and confirms, in my view, the need for our parliament, as a directly elected body, to have the power of legislative initiative to express the interests of all the citizens who elected us.
mr president, the right to petition is one of the fundamental rights of every citizen and its functioning is important for participatory democracy itself. every year, many petitions concern the right of persons with disabilities in the european union. they point to the obstacles they face every day, to inaccessibility or discrimination. these petitions also help us to make our policies more responsive to their real needs. and although the right to petition is declared to be open to everyone, its exercise is tied to how accessible the petitioning processes themselves are. the information of citizens is also important in this respect, but also the question of how many people can actually exercise this right. that is why i would like to call again for us not to remain ambitious in ensuring accessibility not only to the right to petition but also to all other areas, but to take action. implement properly and timely legislation such as the web accessibility directive and the audiovisual directive. let's stop hiding behind a bunch of exceptions to the accepted rules of accessibility. and last but not least, we will use all the available finance, innovation, digitization and technological advances to make our society inclusive, barrier-free and to ensure full participation in it for everyone.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am grateful to honourable members for their valuable opinions and recommendations. we agree on many of them to serve our common objective and to ensure that persons with disabilities can fully and equally enjoy their rights and participate in all areas of life. the implementation of our new strategy has started. we will work closely with member states, civil society and representative organisations of persons with disabilities. to step up this cooperation, we will launch the disability platform this year. we will encourage member states to adopt national strategies to foster the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and of the eu strategy at national, regional and local level. we will promote the use of eu funding and support reforms in the member states to help in this endeavour. finally, monitoring will be key to ensure effective delivery. the commission will develop a monitoring framework for the objectives and actions of our strategy and develop data collection and new disability indicators supporting the european semester. petitions bring to our attention the struggles that people face in everyday life. i thank you once again for this report that draws lessons from the petitions examined by the parliament and gives recommendations to shape our policies. i look forward to working with you to promote the rights of persons with disabilities within a truly inclusive union of equality.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 6 october 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. 16% of all women in the eu live with a disability. that's over 46 million, more than the population of many member states. yet their needs remain invisible to eu law and policy. women with disabilities experience gender-based violence and cross-discrimination. they face exclusion in the labor market, in health care, in education, in public transportation. in poland, they may be completely disempowered because of intellectual disability, deprived of the fundamental right to decide for themselves. the state also denies them their independence and dignity in other situations, forcing them to live in institutions or failing to adapt gynecological services to the needs of women with physical disabilities. the resolution we are debating today addresses these problems. only when will the commission and the member states take notice?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, let me first thank mr picula for the report that he drafted and for the great cooperation that he offered. certainly, when he started his work, the high—flying hopes that we had in the renovation, the resurgence, the reinvigorating of the transatlantic relationship were not tainted with some of the more recent disappointments. but on the other hand we should not forget – and the report says so – that also the european side made mistakes, for instance by rushing the cai just before the end of the year and just before biden came into office. today we know that the new development, the renewing of the transatlantic relationship, needs realism and laborious efforts. it’s not going to be a sprint, rather a long and arduous cross—country run with up—and—down. the rhetoric sometimes sounds better than its implementation turns out to be. like mr lange, i liked the rhetoric about trade that helps the working class. but if this is just a nice phrase to cover economic nationalism, that is not all that good, and i would second you by demanding that the us move substantially, according to the airbus—boeing model, also with regard to steel and aluminium. the report says we want ‘partnership in leadership’ with the us. that leadership claim also, of course, implies more responsibility. we cannot live up to that responsibility by transatlantic navel—gazing, forgetting about the rest of the world. even though, in the conflict between democracy and authoritarianism, we know which camp we belong to, we cannot build that relationship either just as a reaction to what china does and to china’s hegemonic plans. we have to offer a vision to the world of a better future, including climate responsibility, infrastructure development, health, solidarity, fair and open trade and peace instead of arms races. i believe in that regard – and this is my last sentence president – that the global gateway initiative that president von der leyen put on the table will have to play a major role. i hope that we can cooperate on that with the us too.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president borrell, cooperation between the union and the united states is, has always been, must be and will continue to be the fundamental pillar of democratic balance in the world. unfortunately, i still see a chronic failure on the part of the union's leadership to understand the dynamics of us policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. trump was not the problem and was not an enemy before, just as the biden administration cannot be and is not the problem today. unfortunately, we must understand that for americans, whatever their political affiliation, there are red lines, that the national interest comes first, and so we must be aware of this, without drawing our policies on the basis of cheering for one administration or another. what happened in afghanistan is certainly a wake-up call, but it only highlights problems that we have seen for a long time, mistakes that we have seen for a long time. on the subject of defence, i have already said that our european defence is called and can only be called nato. however, to do this, to make our defence functional and efficient and also to make our interests autonomous, we do not need much, we need money, we need investment, which unfortunately the majority of european countries have not done today. no one has stopped us from sending 50,000 or 100,000 troops to afghanistan. member states had this capability. the fact that we did not send them was a political choice, it was a choice dictated by the fact that this was not our war. so to start from this error of analysis, to say that what happened in afghanistan proves that we need european defence or that if we had had european defence in afghanistan, the withdrawal would have been handled differently, is a mistake, it is not telling the truth. that said, i think the next steps are important. as mr bütikofer said, we should concentrate on the geopolitical challenge of the future, namely the threat to the democratic balance posed by the chinese communist regime. in this we must strengthen, without jealousy and without conflict, cooperation, not only with the united states, but also looking at the valuable initiatives that this great country is making in the indo-pacific area and being credible to have a role at that table. that's the challenge we have to play, but before we claim a seat at that table, we have to prove that we are reliable partners.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, mr high representative, the election of the biden/harris administration has brought us an opportunity to improve relations between the european union and the united states. relations that should be based on democratic dialogue and have as a basis for cooperation issues that are fundamental to the most urgent problems we face today, such as the fight against inequalities, such as the fight for gender equality, the fight against racism, human rights or climate change. the future relationship between the united states and the european union must be based on equality, and therefore the european union must have the capacity to ensure its autonomy and to have its own strategic resources within that relationship. our trade policies should be based on the issues of the digital transition, the green transition and also on equality and the rights of workers. this should be the basis of our cooperation, not cooperation aimed at fighting competitors, based solely on military cooperation, or playing a decisive role in the escalation of tensions, rather than in the combating of tensions within the international community. the success of our agreement, the success of our cooperation relations, should be the success of achieving objectives such as the sustainable development objectives, for example. and that is not what is in this report, unfortunately. i believe we can be partners, yes, in the future, but not on the basis of being an ally, an arm of the united states, and not a partner on an equal footing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent tensions and tariff wars between europe and the united states have hit our companies hard, causing huge losses not only to large industry but also to small and mediumsized enterprises and retailers. the maintenance of good transatlantic relations is therefore essential, but it must be done on a different basis from what has been done so far. in the last 25 years most attempts at trade coordination with the united states have failed. the last was ttip, and you all remember the doubts and fears it generated in european civil society. that is why we in the five star movement call for the continuation and strengthening of the dialogue with the united states, but we want fairer and more transparent relations. we demand a definitive end to the tariff wars and a case-by-case solution to trade barriers, which respects the precautionary principle. europe and the united states have a centuries-old friendship and together account for 40% of world gdp, but our relations must be responsive to the needs of our citizens.
mr president, as chairman of the delegation for relations between the eu and the united states, i welcome the report and i endorse every word spoken by our high representative in his introduction. with my opposite number from the united states, jim costa of california, we’ve issued a statement welcoming the launch of the trade and technology council. it’s in that forum – trade, technology, investments – that we are equal, because we’re equal-sized economies. i also have to tell you i was in washington in july, and the americans are, for good reason, obsessed with their rivalry with china. that’s the only thing that republicans and democrats agree on. as the high representative has mentioned, tensions in the far east are rising. we’ve just seen some overflights. china, as you know, has pledged to retake taiwan by force, if need be. if it came to something kinetic out there, i have to tell you, i worry that our ally may not be able to continue to protect us. as a former defence minister, i have to tell you defence systems take decades to develop. therefore, i beg you, colleagues, we need to get serious about european defence right now.
mr president, america is back. after the four dark years of trump, this should make us relieved and focused in co—shaping the world. more, the new partnership relations with the eu also serve president biden in implementing his global, regional and national goals. at the same time, we should not see eu—us relations through pink glasses. while we share common values, our interests may not necessarily go in the same direction. for example take china, which by the us is perceived as a military, economic and political enemy. our approach is not identical, even if we share many of america’s concerns. therefore, especially in times of many uncertainties, we need to treat european strategic autonomy seriously and strive for the goals that are crucial for europe and europeans from an economic, political and military point of view. this is also connected to trade issues. in a world ever more fragmented, it is the role of the us and the eu to defend and reinvigorate international institutions and a rules—based international order. only by example can we lead others to follow in our footsteps. the first meeting of the trade and technology council symbolises a right path to take. however, we still have to work on eliminating irritants which weaken our mutual relations. finding a joint solution to steel and aluminium excess capacity from third countries and resolving the boeing—airbus dispute are just a few examples to name.
mr. chairman, please! the european union and nato are the pillars of transatlantic cooperation. the united states' involvement has had a positive impact on the enlargement of the union and nato, enhancing the security and prosperity of europe. the european union and the united states continue to work together to address international challenges, such as stopping russian aggression in ukraine and supporting moldova and the western balkans. the eu-us summit in june was a success. it was a sign of the new administration's openness and willingness to cooperate with the european union. on 20 september, the us borders were finally opened to vaccinated eu citizens. we are committed to maintaining good relations with the united states to prevent the covid-19 pandemic, protect the environment, and strengthen trade, investment and technological cooperation. but let us remember that actions such as the hasty and ineffective withdrawal of troops from afghanistan, the maintenance of tariffs on steel and aluminium exports from the european union, call into question the equality of the euro-atlantic partnership.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, there is unity between russia and china in keeping usurper lukashenko in power. in case of russia, we see even instigation to brutal crackdown on belarusian society by the usurper lukashenko, as well as waging elements of hybrid war on neighbours, namely poland, lithuania and latvia. also, in some cases, other countries. i would just like to mention some cases of brutal crackdown on society. andzelika borys has been already 196 days in prison and andrzej poczobut, just two days less. maria kolesnikova was sentenced to 11 years in prison and maxim znak for 10 years in prison. in case of hybrid war, we have to abandon naivety and clearly see the aggressor and differentiate between aggressor and victims. the activity of lukashenko is an internationally-condemned criminal activity on this, and i see traces of misunderstanding even in this chamber when we speak about a variety of countries under pressure. remember that poland is one of the main defenders of the eu unity in this.
mr president it has been a year since the belarusian authorities violently ended the protests following the belarusian elections. how many have been in prison since then? the situation has since deteriorated drastically and the belarusian government continues to ignore all international obligations in an unacceptable manner. we stand in full solidarity with poland, lithuania and latvia on the migration situation at the borders of belarus, poland, lithuania and latvia. poland, lithuania, all must be given assistance, as they protect the eu's external borders. it seems clear today that closing the border, fencing the border, is the solution to curb illegal mass migration. the hungarian government has been criticized and attacked by brussels for building a fence to protect the country and the eu's external borders. hungary protected the western european member states and continues to do so on the southern border, as poland and lithuania do now on the eastern border. we must do everything we can to ensure that migration does not become a tool of political blackmail.
mr president, the lukashenko regime is exploiting a well-documented russian playbook of hybrid instruments: in this case, state-sponsored illegal migration. the regime is cynically weaponising the human beings to overwhelm the asylum system of eastern european countries and member states, stoke political tension and undermine the eu’s ability to react to other crises. it is a true hybrid war. therefore, the european commission must prepare relevant legislative proposals, providing member states with the necessary safeguards to efficiently respond to such provocations. i also call for a swift adoption of the fifth package of sanctions, including the sanctions related to smuggling into the eu of illegal migrants. belarusian people deserve better men: change. they aspire for democratic changes. in the epp resolution, we reiterate our non-recognition of lukashenko as the president. they consider the current regime as illegitimate, illegal and criminal. therefore, the eu should engage further with democratic belarus in a political dialogue and prepare a governance reform vision for belarus after lukashenko. the leader of democratic belarus, svetlana tikhanovskaya, should be invited to the eastern partnership summit in december 2021. (exclamation in bielarusian)
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. it's been 14 months since lukashenko rigged the election. there is another debate here in the european parliament, and we will have another resolution calling on the european commission and the european council to take real action. i'm not going to let you down. there's not even a high representative at this debate today. this shows what stage, what point we have reached in the fight against the lukashenka regime. there are no real sanctions, there are no donor conferences. there is no eu strategy today on belarus, which we have been fighting for for months, and political prisoners in lukashenka's prisons are arriving every day. and this is really a picture full of this drama that we have in belarus, and in terms of the weakness of the european union in the face of the lukashenka regime. and lukashenko is also winning this war with us because today's debate shows when it comes to destabilizing our eastern border of the european union. today lukashenko is happy that the polish government has become a useful idiot and it has to be said clearly and clearly lukashenko. people are dying at the polish border, at the polish border, these poor immigrants are being trapped by the lukashenka regime, they are being pushed back and forth. that is why, commissioner, you said just now that your officials are going to poland next week, in the next few days. you'll need to bring in lawyers, ngos, the media, to have full transparency of what's happening at the polish border. we don't have that today. i ask you on behalf of millions of poles who respect human rights and democracy to find out the whole truth about what is happening on the polish-belarusian border, because unfortunately we are unable to find out from the polish government.
mr president, i would like to thank madam commissioner for her efforts to solve the problem and for her support for the polish achievements. please disregard the lies of the polish opposition about the problem. lukashenko started the hybrid action against the european union states. it’s hostile activity, which needs a serious united response. we need to implement a non—recognition policy. no—fly zone for officials or limited sanctions are not enough. we have to implement, not the recognition policy of lukashenko, and recognise instead ms tsikhanouskaya, grant her special status and maybe a special office here. we need tougher sanctions which affect potash and fertiliser transit transport to russia. we have to expel belarus from swift transactions and expel and suspend activities in different institutions, in culture and in sports. we need a serious debate in the security council of the united nations and finally, we need investigation conducted by the international criminal court.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. fellow workers! there are immigrants who are legally at the belarusian border, who were brought in, who flew in and paid for it. they have no papers, they don't want to accept asylum. humanitarian aid is stopped at the polish-belarusian border. the lukashenka regime is not allowing humanitarian aid in. poland with the help of 1800 soldiers and border guard, with the help of 180 kilometers of wall protects poland and the european union from another route of illegal immigration, illegal trafficking in human beings. we need to be together, we need to speak with one voice, we need to act harder, we need to act faster, so that we can be effective and speak the same. one of the polish mps used the wrong wording, using disinformation, fake news. let's just say it's a dangerous but worthwhile leap.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. freedom for the political prisoners! yes, all the persecuted in belarus must be free, including the polish journalist andrzej poczobut, the leader of the polish minority, angelica borys, but thousands of persecuted belarusians must be free people, because they are europeans, they have a full right to be free. but the european union must also take legal action. since alexander lukashenko is the head of a mafia criminal group that smuggles people, he is violating european law, terrorizing his own people. we have to take legal action. a conference of lawyers is being held in nuremberg on monday, preparing a draft law to bring alexander lukashenko before the international court of justice. we have to join this. yes, alexander lukashenko has to go before the court. there must be an information office for the belarusian opposition in the european parliament. we need to have a high-level conference because we need to be effective and we need a fifth package of sanctions. but we also need to speak with one voice about the border and its integrity. regardless of who rules in poland, who will rule and who will rule in lithuania, and rules today. the border must be sealed, and that requires our full european cooperation. i also... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. this debate should start with sending words of solidarity to the arrested activists of the polish minority in belarus, andrzej poczobut and andzelika borys, and to the hundreds of detained belarusian activists. my homeland, poland, was the target of a hybrid attack by the belarusian regime, backed by kgb experts sent from moscow. i want to make it clear: there is no secure union without secure borders of poland, lithuania, latvia. on the one hand, we have to say clearly and explicitly that the kgb propaganda tubes are sending disinformation and fake news to the world, scaling poland and polish services, border guards, the military, and polish officials are physically attacked by belarusian provocateurs and border guards. and today we have to thank them very much for guarding poland's borders and guarding the borders of the european union. today, the european parliament and all european institutions should stand in one line against the lukashenka regime. we need strong sanctions.
mr. chairman, please! i should like to begin by thanking the commissioner for the substantive support which the commission is giving today to the polish border guard officers, the lithuanian or latvian border guard officers. it is thanks to these officers that our common european home is safe today. today, from ceuta to the mediterranean, including the border between belarus and the member states of the union, we are facing what the minister of the interior of the kingdom of morocco once aptly described as an invasion, a migratory invasion. therefore, it is with regret that we must note these unwise and irresponsible attacks by those of you who, in an infantile and perhaps full of bad will, are today disabling the activities of the polish border guard, which together with fronteks protects our countries from the provocations of the lukashenko regime, which cynically exploits those who, in search of a better life, are ready to risk even the health of their own children, counting on the one hand on the support of the regime that has enabled and facilitated access to our borders, and on the other hand counting on the hysteria and infantism of public opinion in your countries. lenin once coined this phrase to address the then left-wing elites of europe as полезные идиоты, or useful idiots. today, from the point of view of putin and lukashenko, it seems that this saying remains relevant all the time.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen! the right-wing voices are happy to see that the european union stands with poland in this crisis. i also agree with those who say that lukashenko wouldn't be doing what he's doing without vladimir putin's crisis. lukashenko has killed before: zakharchenko, gonchar, krasovsky are the names of the people he murdered. he has kidnapped roman protasevich, and taken hostages angelica borys and andrzej poczobut. anyone who murders, kidnaps and terrorizes migrants is a terrorist. and i have three suggestions for that. first, let's increase aid to the belarusian democrats. second, let's support the process of bringing lukashenko to the international court of justice, and in the meantime, put him on the terrorist list.
mr president, for over a year now, the people of belarus have been suffering under a worsening regime. today, there are over 700 political prisoners, including my good friend and co-chair of the belarusian christian democrats, paval sieviaryniec, who has now spent 10 years in and out of lukashenko’s horrific prisons. paval’s father has died of covid in a hospital last week and paval was not given the chance to see him. the only crime that paval and others like him have committed, is wishing to see their country sovereign, democratic and prosperous. the stories we hear every day are of fear, terror and torture. despite the fact that lukashenko has been terrorising the people of belarus now for almost three decades, we have kept engaging in dialogue with the authoritarian regime. let the situation in belarus be our lesson. it is time to ensure that our external actions are consistent with our values. we must maximise our political and economic pressure against lukashenko and his associates, including by adopting an additional fifth package of sanctions. (exclamation in bielarusian)
mr president, mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. alexander lukashenko has been terrorizing for 27 years, exercising his dictatorship with the clear support of the kremlin, and that means that moscow also bears its share of responsibility. he is a dictator who terrorizes not only his own citizens, he imprisons them, we have over 700 political prisoners, some of them under 18, he violates universal human rights, he rigs elections, he runs a regime based on the death penalty, but he also terrorizes the european union. since he became a human smuggler, there's been over 6,000 of them, we heard, hijacking european planes and the like. i am glad to be part of this great majority in the temple of european democracy today, which wants to send a clear and loud message to minsk, a strong, unified message, including a call for the hague tribunal. thank you so much.
president lukashenko seems to surprise us again and again: his hijacking of planes, his suppression of the opposition, yes, of his own people, his way of using migrants as a weapon of hybrid warfare. we stand by and we watch. at least, it seems that way. lukashenko is not only imposing boundaries, he is also pushing boundaries. his manoeuvres represent the decay and the decay of the norms and rules of international politics. something we've actually been seeing for a long time. think of the annexation of crimea and the kabul debacle. but the european response to this is sadly diffuse. we should be so much stronger. let's put it all together with a few questions: so how do we best invest in more resilience? how do we make urgent progress on defence and security policy? how can we make a quantum leap in our asylum and migration policies, including the effective protection of our borders? how are we to uphold international law? something that turns out to be a lot less obvious than we all thought. we want to be a full-fledged player in the world. we have the potential, but we have to really take steps forward.
the eu, and the eu in particular, took a strong stand against lukashenka's regime when it tried to throw a smachtbhanna air package. now, i know you're trying to save us from the sea. bhronnamar duais sakharov was elected as the president of belarus in 2020. it is our responsibility to the side of the players in the second half. we are not going to let lukashenka die. i'm sorry, i'm going to have to tell you something. i'm going to go to the special place, sviatlana tsikhanouskaya and i'm going to believe in ireland. chaith sviatlana trí shamhradh i gcontae thiobraid árann agus agus í ina déagóir, agus thug sí cuairt orainn arís an samhradh seo caite, agus í mar cheannaire ar an bhfreasúra daonlathach sa bhealarúis. chaith sviatlana trí shamhradh i gcontae thiobraid árann agus agus agus í ina déagóir, agus thug sí cuairt orainn arís an samhradh seo caite, agus í mar cheannaire ar an bhfreasúra daonlathach sa bhealarúis. chaith sviatlana trí shamhradh i gcontae thiobraid árann agus agus í ina déagóir, agus thug sí cuairt orainn arís an samhradh seo caite, agus í mar cheannaire ar an bhfreasúra daonlathach sa bhealarúis. chaith sviatlana trí shamhradh i gcontae thiobraid árann agus agus agus í ina déagóir, agus thug sí cuairt orainn arís an samhradh seo caite, agus í mar cheannaire ar an bhfreasúra daonlathach sa bhealarúis. i would like to marry artsiom miadvedski, a political prisoner in duchtaigh mé, the moon also. ba cheart miadvedski agus an 700 political prisoners and to let them go free.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this debate. thank you for your strong commitment and clear solidarity with the belarussian people and with the more than 700 political prisoners. it’s necessary that we stand firm and united towards lukashenko. we must react in solidarity against the instrumentalisation of migrants transported to the eu borders under false pretences. the eu must be united and not show weakness in the face of brutal repression and the continuing provocations by the lukashenko regime. we must show that we are not belarus. we are not lukashenko. we are the european union. we are about democracy, not autocracy. we are about transparency, not secrecy. we are about humanity, not brutality, and we must stand firm and united in protecting our external borders and our values, respecting fundamental rights and human dignity. the eu is, and should continue to be, at the forefront of the international reactions towards lukashenko’s brutal and illegal actions. one year since the fraudulent elections the world has seen the incredible courage and unity of belarusian people in claiming their fundamental rights and freedoms. the world has also seen the brutal and irresponsible actions by lukashenko and his regime. we have seen enough to draw conclusions. there is no way back to business as usual. there is no other way than ensuring accountability for the crimes committed. we stand ready to adopt further measures in response to unacceptable actions of the regime. in the face of the brutal repression against its own citizens and the provocations by the lukashenko regime, the eu is firmly united and continues to support a free and democratic belarus, and i know, dear members, that i can count on you on this.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 7 october 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – the announcement of the state of emergency in poland on 2 september was primarily an attempt to prevent legal action by lawyers, media, non-governmental organisations, as well as activists carrying out monitoring and documentation. the access to the area under the state of emergency is limited, even for activists trying to help immigrants. polish border guard is breaching international and domestic law, and its own official procedures. guards claim to ‘prevent from illegal crossings of border’. in reality, they force refugees who have already arrived in poland and asked for international protection to return to the belarusian border. we do not know in how many places extremely exhausted people die. if the situation does not change, after the lifting of the state of emergency, we will find mass graves of refugees in forests trying to get to poland or other eu countries. we are no longer talking about the political crisis related to dictators and smugglers taking advantage of the lack of a safe path and operational mechanisms to international protection. we are dealing with a humanitarian crisis, where human lives are at stake. our primary duty is to ensure that no one else is killed on the polish border.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you get away with this. the establishment of a new health security structure with specific responsibilities for critical medical precautions is to become one of the pillars of the security of the health union. the activities of the office are to be the main objective of strengthening the capacity of the european union and filling the gap in the eu system for response and preparedness to health emergencies. the principle of 'the best is the enemy of the good' is my guiding principle and as the rapporteur of the parliament responsible for extending the mandate of the ecdc, i am particularly interested in the synergies we can achieve with the participation and action of the existing agencies. it is necessary to provide for a precise distribution of the office's competences in order to avoid duplication and overlap of tasks carried out by other agencies and structures, so that so-called better solutions do not become competition with good actions taken so far. in addition, we need to have an explanation in the operational process of the office itself on how this synergy with the agencies will be further boosted by the crisis management mechanisms already in place. i believe that in order to achieve the objectives of the new office effectively, it is necessary to establish a close partnership and cooperation between all the european institutions and the member states by specifying the tasks of the hera management board, which will be composed of representatives of all the member states and of the institutions responsible for its functioning.
madam president, i believe my colleagues have already explained well why, as members of this parliament, we are so worried, but also angry, about the current proposal. we all want to strengthen the capacity of the eu to respond to health emergencies, but this process must be independent and driven only by public health interest. as foreseen now, the european health emergency preparedness and response authority (hera) will not be an independent agency. the commission will work directly with the industry on research, development and manufacturing of medicines. the only way to guarantee the independence of hera will be to include strict and binding policies on conflict of interest. we cannot afford, neither financially nor morally, that hera become an additional channel to give pharmaceutical companies a blank cheque. we have to draw the lessons from the so far poor experience of the eu public and private partnerships. we cannot afford to make the same mistakes for the credibility of the project, but also for the credibility of the european institutions.
madam president, madam commissioner, we cannot simply discuss in this house today the role of the european parliament in the hera. there are many other issues which are objectively more relevant if we are to have this new authority effective, operational and useful in managing some 50 billion euros by 2027 in four months. health is a matter for the member states. we therefore need to know the structure and functioning of this authority, the mechanisms for coordination with the states, the instruments that are to be put at the service of hera to ensure the availability, access and distribution of medicines. what are the commission's plans to ensure that there is no overlap of powers with agencies whose mandates have just been extended, such as the ema or the ecdc? in short, commissioner, we will support efforts to develop a european pharmaceutical industry and improve our capacity for research and for responding to health emergencies. but we need guarantees to prevent good ideas from turning into giant structures which add no value to the european citizen and which blur the sovereignty of nations.
madam president, commissioner, do we need a european emergency health authority? most likely, yes. but do we need it to be a private office of the european commission that can negotiate directly with pharmaceutical companies and the private sector, without transparency, without democracy, without parliament? no, i'm not going. were there gaps in the management of the pandemic? there have been, and several. and they also have to do with the fact that we have divested from national health services, because there have been cuts often imposed by european policies. they also fail to give due weight to the agencies we already have, namely the european medicines agency and the ecdc. so we need an articulated response, certainly, but responding to health crises and health emergencies is also about strengthening national health services, the response of professionals, and investing in scientific research and science. we cannot accept in any way a european agency, a european authority, which answers these questions without us knowing how or why, without us knowing what its role is, without us knowing what its mandate is, and without the citizens being able to be heard.
i have to say, madam president, it is a serious matter to prepare the eu for the next health crisis. that is why i am also glad that we are having a discussion on hera here today. the way we have dealt with the coronavirus pandemic has been reactive. we were, in fact, acting behind the scenes. so we need to get better at seeing health crises before they hit. and we have to make sure that we have the necessary production of medicines and protective equipment and so on. all of which we all agree on, and that's why it's also good that we're discussing this today, because we need to be better prepared when the next pandemic hits. but it is also very regrettable that the commission has chosen to treat hera as a matter of urgency and has chosen to keep the european parliament out of the debate on how it should be set up. we have been affected by this for more than a year and a half. it takes time to find out what we can learn from it, and then it also takes better solutions. and to get better solutions, the european parliament should be involved. we're not the same. we owe it to each other to do this properly.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the crucial question of whether we need a new institution at all remains unanswered. is it not better, or was it not better, to extend the range of tasks of the ema and ecdc further? the cooperation of hera with these two institutions is still very unclear. another pressing problem is the €50 billion budget the commission is dealing with. a budget of this size has a huge impact on existing programmes and on member states' budgets. i also see a real risk to the agreements reached on the new mff. all actors must be scheduled. finally, this seems to be a top-down prestige project with which the commission wants to compete with the united states. it is passing through the member states and parliament, and there is as yet no question of a constructive dialogue with this house, the european parliament. so i'm anything but convinced. the commission has a lot of explaining to do, both in terms of substance, budget and procedure.
i'm not going to let you down. this is an absolutely crucial moment for europe. it's whether we as politicians decide that we really want to protect the health of europeans, or whether we continue to hide behind treaties and the fact that health is in the hands of the member states. i think that covid has really exposed, it has shown -- and the thousands of deaths have shown -- that europe was not prepared to face such a difficult challenge. but out of every evil, there must always be good. and we need to learn from this situation, too. do we need a special agenda to fight threats? of course we need it. do we need a bureaucratic, bureaucratic structure to replace that agency? no, we don't need that. if we are to effectively combat the threats, the real health crises that we face, the agency must be strong, effective, professional, well-equipped financially, with good competencies, but also transparent so that it does not lose the trust of our citizens. an agency like this has to solve crises that come, come, but also anticipate crises. commissioner, we have spoken many times during the work of the special committee on the fight against cancer in europe about, among other things, the shortage of key medicines, for example, for the treatment of cancer. these are crises, too, and an agency like this needs to have the expertise to deal with the hustlers who want to make money in the face of a pandemic or other threats, but also to rescue the citizens of those countries where, for example, medicines are becoming scarce. we should have anticipated it and counteracted it. so, competence, power, professionalism, money and transparency.
madam chair, madam commissioner, because of the covid-19 pandemic, public health has been at the forefront of our concerns, and the coronavirus crisis has forced us to change our priorities. we have no doubt concluded that we must have operational agencies to deal with future threats. i welcomed the statement by the president of the commission calling for a strong health union in which the 27 member states will work together to detect, prepare for and respond to health emergencies. that is why crisis preparedness and the ability to respond to it is important. before i get to the hera office, i'd also like to share my opinion on the existing agencies, the ecdc and the ema. i think we should also strengthen them. and as for the hera office, i support its establishment. i think it should have been established long ago. we certainly share the same goals in the operation of this office. hera has to model risk, address manufacturing capacity, initiate vaccine development, and of course, bring together the best experts. we have all that in common, commissioner, no doubt. however, what i regret is that the european parliament, which has full democratic legitimacy, was not fully involved and that hera was not constructed as an independent body, where there is a clear risk of a conflict of interest. i think we should learn from this pandemic and do a better job of serving european citizens and even better consider the establishment of hera.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, despite the clear success of the european strategy to combat the pandemic in its final outcome, we are all well aware of the extreme difficulties faced by the national and european authorities, mainly due to the lack of direct health expertise on the part of europe. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal on the hera authority as a first step, although we cannot consider it sufficient. we understand the commission's difficulty in being faced with a wall by certain governments, which, after having demonstrated their total inadequacy, unfortunately remain anchored to national logics in relation to global threats. unfortunately, a light structure is not enough, but a real european authority with competence, adequate structures and resources is needed, and it is no less acceptable that parliament should be excluded from the governance of such an important area. parliament will have to claim a role, both in the commission and in the national governments, especially those which continue to have a short-sighted and selfish view of the most precious good of our citizens: health.
i am glad, mr president, that there is a european approach to future health crises, because that is what is needed. pandemics know no bounds. it is a good thing that we are going to invest in essential medical equipment, for example. but hera is not going in the right direction. this is not going to be a fully-fledged independent agency that puts the public interest first. after the complete lack of transparency with regard to vaccine contracts, after ignoring parliament's call for greater solidarity with the rest of the world on the subject of vaccines, this is not what the citizen is asking for. parliament does not want another briefing during a contact group. we want effective control of policy. so make hera a full-fledged agency with parliamentary control instead of an agency that can funnel public money to the pharmaceutical industry without accountability.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in september 2020, ursula von der leyen made a bold announcement: "we will build a european barda, an agency for biomedical advanced research and development". she's announced an agency. what we have now is another department in the commission's apparatus. this is disappointing not only from the point of view of parliament but also from the point of view of the citizens. why would you do that? there is less transparency, less control and less leverage for the eu health union that we wanted to be. commissioner, you promised that after parliament was not involved in the procurement of the vaccines, parliament - we as elected members of parliament - would be involved in the future to ensure greater democratic legitimacy. that didn't happen again. the pharmaceutical industry is provided with a mandatory committee for this purpose. there is no such committee for patients. i wonder: do you not want the barda or do the member states want it? i am prepared to improve this proposal. it's urgently needed.
madam president! new times call for new ways of doing things. we have finally started to build a common european army, but there is something more important or just as important than defence: the health and lives of our citizens. health and safety policy on our continent must be clearly transnational and ultimately be the responsibility of the eu institutions. why would you do that? because when it comes to health, there's no time or place for politics. all that matters is a good diagnosis and a quick response. and it's not easy to respond to a crisis threat, like a pandemic, when you have 27 countries that don't speak with one voice, and they often have different response procedures. i therefore regard the establishment of the eu office for health preparedness and response as a step in the right direction, but i hope that in the end we will have a common european health protection and common european good standards. you may say i'm a dreamer, but i'm not the only one.
madam president, madam commissioner, the world is entering an era of unpeace, of non-peace. big power competition with near-constant, underground conflicts, attacks, cyberattacks and hybrid attacks, that try to influence our decision-making processes and make democracy, our decision-making system, a strategic vulnerability in the eyes of the world. cyber defence is therefore already a central element for our security and for the protection of our democracy. cyber, telecommunications and artificial intelligence capabilities should also be part of building strategic autonomy. the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world of cyber security, and it is not just the united states that is involved in this. for our security and for our democracy.
madam president, some seven years ago all nato members convened in wales, and they agreed to spend 2% of their budgets, of gdp, on defence – and rightly so because we did not address the threats at that time, and we still do not. but now, seven years later, new threats have been added to the game: cyber—sabotage, intellectual property theft, disinformation, election interference, economic coercion and so forth. my question seven years later is, therefore, are we spending enough to counter these new threats that we face today? does the west need to convene again, just like we did seven years ago in wales, to counter the threats of our time? i believe we need to do so, and because the eu is often better positioned than nato to counter such new threats, it is the eu which should diplomatically step up and take the lead to formulate a new spending norm to complement nato and address the threats of our time and beyond.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! i agree with the common strategic vision of achieving cyber resilience in the union. today, these capacities are fragmented and their consolidation and coordination is a task for the near future. experts confirm that the european union has a significant, fully operational capability to ensure cyber resilience and collective rapid response to cyber incidents. therefore, it is necessary to exchange information between cybersecurity crisis response teams, to exchange best practices, and to intensify training, research and exercises. a european fast and secure network for detecting, assessing and countering cyber-attacks is needed. and that is why i agree with the recommendations that have been made, which are very important and need to be emphasised, including, among other things, raising public awareness and improving citizens' skills in defending against cyberattacks and closer cooperation between the european union and nato, especially in the field of interoperability of cyber defence.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree in today's debate that the european union needs a single, coordinated, more ambitious and stronger strategy on cybersecurity, and that it requires a serious commitment by all member states and a strengthening of cyber diplomacy. cyberattacks are increasing in both quantity and sophistication, and are set to grow in the future. this is a serious risk for europe, which is certainly fragile and lagging behind. the report by mr paet, whom i thank for his important work, is a step forward in sharing a defence strategy that can protect citizens and businesses and make our critical infrastructure more resilient. the international scenario, including in the light of what has happened in afghanistan, must make us even more aware that we need a common european defence system to react and resist present and future attacks, carried out above all by those who see european democracy as the greatest enemy. just as we have responded to the pandemic, we must show the same strength to contain the risk of cyber attacks that can become more dangerous than the pandemic itself.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i have to say that this was an interesting exchange of views on cyber defence – a subject that will be ever more present on our political agenda. so let me thank once more the rapporteur for his solid and timely report. we will keep working together on cyber defence in order to build eu resilience to cyberattacks, provide for better defence capabilities and work to enhance the eu’s ability to prevent, deter and respond to cyberattacks through our cyber security tool box, including sanctions. so thank you very much for the discussion.
in writing. – over the past years, cyber risks and vulnerabilities have increased. cyberspace has become the fifth domain of warfare alongside the traditional military spaces. in this area, the eu is still subject to many cyberattacks, deeply harming its citizens. the world economic forum stresses that the number of countries experiencing cyberattacks has increased by 150% between 2017 and 2019. i support the commission president proposal in her latest state of the union address, to develop a european cyber-defence policy and a cyber-resilience act. these capacities are now fragmented and their consolidation and coordination must be a strategic objective of our mandate. i call for the members states to strengthen their responses against cyber threats through an efficient, collective and rapid response mechanism, within the eu framework but also through nato, thus gathering all necessary actors to efficiently fight against cyber vulnerabilities.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, it is since the beginning of the crisis last november that we have repeatedly raised our voice about the situation in tigray. the eu has been at the forefront of the diplomatic action and engaged with its member states, like—minded partners, as well as bretton woods institutions, to advocate for a concerted response. the eu had postponed budget support disbursements already last december. despite our and some other international actors’ efforts, almost a year into the conflict the situation does not improve. on the contrary, the tragic humanitarian crisis unfolding in tigray is reaching traumatic levels and is increasingly posing considerable implications to the wider horn of africa. close to one year into the conflict, over five million people are in need of urgent assistance and 2.1 million people are displaced. the famine review committee predicted in june that there were 400 000 people at risk of famine. we believe this number is probably closer to one million people, and we have now evidence that the number of malnourished children has dramatically increased. colleagues, no meaningful humanitarian aid in tigray has reached the region since mid—july. while 75% of tigray territory is now accessible for the humanitarian staff and supplies that are already inside tigray, the ethiopian government has sealed off the region. humanitarian aid entering tigray is anecdotal compared to the needs, while on another scale needs are increasing in amhara and afar as the tigray conflict spills over into these regions. the operating conditions for humanitarians deteriorated sharply in the past two months, with organisations running out of supplies, fuel and cash and suffering from severe administrative access impediments. furthermore, the narrative of the ethiopian government towards the relief organisations is becoming increasingly negative and dangerous. in a shocking move, seven senior un officials were declared persona non grata last week, having to leave ethiopia within 72 hours. one of them is involved in the investigation on possible war crimes and human rights violations. two major humanitarian organisations were suspended this summer. the gap left behind is unbridgeable. this results in a climate of fear and self—censure of the relief actors. faced with this situation, the eu continues supporting civilians affected by the conflict through our humanitarian response efforts. our absolute priority now is pushing for access to ensure that significant humanitarian aid reaches all those in need. enhanced action and collective pressure for immediate and unhindered humanitarian access and for respect of international humanitarian law are needed towards the ethiopian authorities and all parties. our discussions next week during the high—level geopolitical dialogue with the european parliament on future cooperation under global europe ndici are also part of these efforts. i am looking forward to our discussions.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. for us too. the eu is shaping up internally and externally as a union of values. that's very important, but if we're going to make it really credible, we need to act quickly and effectively. that is the only way to have an impact as a global actor and to realise that ambition on the ground, in cooperation with our allies and multilaterally under the leadership of the united nations. therein lies the solution. it is, of course, the first responsibility of the ethiopian government itself to protect its people. it is also responsible for ensuring that the un and other humanitarian organisations can operate safely and provide aid. there are indications that the government is obstructing or preventing humanitarian assistance to the population, including medicines. if it is guilty of violations of international humanitarian law, it cannot go without a reaction from the international community. at the same time, every effort must be made to get the new government on the right track. there are very deep wounds in ethiopian society. it is also clear that the government is not the only one to blame, and that there are grave, serious violations of universal human rights and the rules of international humanitarian law. a process of dialogue and reconciliation is essential, and that is why it is so important that all these violations be subjected to an international, credible and impartial investigation and that a mechanism be created to prosecute and bring to justice the perpetrators.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, madam commissioner, since the beginning of the conflict in the tigray region in northern ethiopia, since november 2020, almost a year, amnesty international has documented violations of international human rights and humanitarian law, some of which may constitute war crimes or crimes against humanity. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the un convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the organization also documented how the federal government troops and other armed forces, which support them in this conflict, also committed widespread rape of women and girls of the tigrayan ethnicity during this conflict. this sexual violence is accompanied by a shocking level of brutality. some of the victims have been held captive by the perpetrators for days or even weeks in circumstances that amount to sexual slavery. others were raped in front of their children, in front of their families. but let's not forget, the tigray conflict is not limited to this region. since july, it has been extended to the neighbouring regions of amhara and afar. tigray fighters have in turn engaged in armed clashes with the ethiopian national defense forces and the amhara and afar regional special forces and militias, causing tens of thousands of civilians to flee from the region today. so it is important, and you said it, that we call for an immediate ceasefire, that we give humanitarian access to those who need it most and that all these human rights crimes can be tried as such.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, i really want to express my full support for the people of ethiopia. we have talked about famine and - i heard your speech, commissioner - we have talked about rape. it's a tragic situation, and it's also the country with perhaps the highest number of deaths in the world, because of this crisis. what are we asking for? we call on the ethiopian government and the tigray people's liberation front to commit to an immediate ceasefire to resolve their political differences by peaceful and democratic means, within the framework of the country's constitution. it is imperative that humanitarian aid organisations - you have spoken of this - and human rights organisations are allowed to do their work safely and unhindered throughout the country. dialogue with the united nations must be ensured to enable its expelled staff to continue their important work on the ground. we also call for action by urging member states to stop the export of weapons and surveillance technology to ethiopia, which are being deployed to attack civilians and commit human rights abuses.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the fighting in the tigray region, combined with the pandemic, drought and locust plague, has created a critical situation, especially with regard to access to food. of the 6 million people living in tigray, 5.2 million are in need of immediate food assistance. hospitals, schools, factories were looted and destroyed. the humanitarian situation in the region is dire, made worse by the limited humanitarian aid supplies. the ethiopian government is suspending humanitarian aid for starving ethiopians, so it is very important that the european union also acts in this regard to put diplomatic pressure on the ethiopian government and support humanitarian organizations so that they can enter and deliver life-saving aid to tigray. the path to resolving this conflict is difficult, as it requires appropriate action to rebuild trust among the country's diverse population, but the european union can and must help in this, by taking possible action to provide support to the civilian population and contribute to political stabilisation and peacebuilding.
chairman of the counting session! i thank my colleagues for the report on the arctic and i would urge you to vote in favour of it. arctic issues are strategic and have a significant impact on europe's future. we're talking about the effects on the environment, the economy and security. the race to the arctic has entered a new chapter with the retreat of the ice sheet and the opening of the northeast passage. this will affect the competitiveness of various global powers and will significantly shape the global economy in the near future. this report also addresses the strategic interests of two of europe's fiercest competitors, russia and china, in the region. the pursuit of these interests is transforming the global security landscape. the opening of the northeast passage to maritime transport is a major win for both russia and china. russia's geographical position on the one hand, and china's global ambitions and economic power on the other. china is developing a cable project that would cross the north pole and allow for the application of sensor technology for intelligence purposes in addition to high-speed data. it is highly reprehensible that the new transport corridor should create opportunities for china to influence the security of europe and the west. we will certainly have to come back to this issue in the european parliament shortly. we must do everything we can to ensure that chinese projects in the northeast are not supported by european member states or their companies. thank you!
member of the commission. – madam president, today testifies to your commitment and also to your continued interest and engagement in arctic matters. i would like to close by acknowledging the importance of the observation of the chair of the committee on foreign affairs, david mcallister, in his remarks after the mission to the kingdom of denmark, greenland and iceland in late september. the discussion today, as well as the report will inform the joint communication that we will present next week with the commission. thank you very much for this debate.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank you very much indeed for this debate, which has also added to my knowledge of the role played by the arctic region in the mining policy of each individual member of the european parliament. from this debate, it would appear that keeping the arctic as a low-tension region is certainly possible. within the chamber, that sometimes has very heated debates, we are able to find an almost consensual approach to a very important and very sensitive issue. as i say in the title of this report, there are also concerns, and when we state some issues they are of pure concern and we want to contribute to eradicating challenges in order to make the arctic a place of peaceful cooperation and prosperity, and for it to be beneficial to the whole of mankind, giving possibilities for freedom of navigation and in particular for a prosperous life for local people, for indigenous people. i noted a statement of our colleague living in the region. yes, certainly, it has been extremely important. we listened carefully to statements by danish parliamentarians, politicians, ngo representatives, but in particular to those living in greenland, including a large representation of inuits, indigenous people. we promise to keep our word in making their life better.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by mrs karima delli, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the evaluation of the eu funds for the tourism sector in the eu as the end of the summer season approaches (o-000054/2021 - b9-0036/21) (2021/2816 (sv))
author. madam president, commissioner breton, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important debate. the tourism sector, i would remind you, represents 12% of employment across the european union, with some 27.5 million employees. 90% of the enterprises active in this sector are smes, with a significant share of precarious and seasonal jobs, and many undeclared or partly declared jobs. here is a first, brief, picture of this sector; the eu's tourism sector was also one of the largest and one of the earliest victims of the global covid-19 pandemic. it recorded an investment deficit of €161 billion in 2020, which had negative consequences for the entire tourism ecosystem, and therefore, by extension, for millions of workers employed directly or indirectly by this sector, as i mentioned earlier. as the 2021 summer season has indeed come to an end, we need to undertake a preliminary assessment of the measures in place to allow for a coordinated eu approach to safely re-open travel within the 27, as well as to and from third countries. i am thinking, first, of the implementation of the european union digital covid certificate, which aims to facilitate the lifting of travel restrictions and prevent unilateral actions by member states, and secondly, the creation of the european covid-19 safety label in the tourism sector. but the questions need to go further. so, commissioner, my questions are as follows. at this stage, what conclusions can the commission draw with regard to the deployment of this eu digital covid certificate and its impact on the tourism sector during the summer season of 2021? compared to the previous year, is it possible to quantify the success of the certificate by taking into account the total number of trips? what difficulties have member states and travellers encountered? has the commission found any significant geographical differences between member states and regions in the effect of certificates on tourism sectors? could the commission provide an overview of the deployment of the covid-19 safety label in the tourism sector? how many tourism-related businesses have been awarded the label? how has the commission supported the establishment of the label among tourism-related businesses, in terms of funding, but above all technical expertise? what initiatives are in place to inform and promote the label? following the conclusions on the resumption of summer travel, what measures does the commission intend to take to support the tourism ecosystem, in particular to alleviate the uncertainties faced by travellers, but also tourism-related businesses, in relation to travel restrictions? finally, could the commission provide an overview of the support granted to tourism-related businesses, in accordance with the green deal, due to the pandemic, and the amount of this support? we in the committee on transport and tourism are always sounding the alarm to have this budget line specifically for tourism. so how can we make it easier for microenterprises and smes to access eu funding? what is the current unemployment rate in this sector? and how many people actually lost their jobs during the pandemic? mr breton, i know that this raises a lot of questions, but the time has come for this sector to arm itself like the task force which is working, within the committee on transport and tourism - and i am proud of its members - on a clear road map to redraw what tourism of tomorrow will be, that is to say, local, sustainable and local tourism. we will no longer think of exoticism on the other side of the world, but of exoticism at home to rediscover a europe made of regions.
member of the commission. madam president, madam chairman of the committee on transport and tourism, if i may, dear karima, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for giving me the opportunity to take a first look at this year's tourist season. the effects were catastrophic, as we all know, in 2020 and the first half of 2021. this summer is obviously crucial. i think we can all say that, despite a situation which is still obviously difficult, the summer was rather better than we feared. this is obviously a cause for rejoicing for all those involved in tourism and in particular - madam president, as you said - for all the many small businesses that make up the tourism fabric of the european union. i believe that this encouraging development is due, first of all - and i wanted to remind you all of this here - to the success of vaccination in europe. with more than 75% of our adult citizens now vaccinated, europe is the leading continent in terms of vaccination. but let me, if you please, concentrate my remarks first on the five questions you asked me, mrs delli. i will try to answer the five questions in the time allotted to me. first, on the implementation of the digital covid certificate, i confirm that the efforts to accelerate vaccine production and the deployment of the eu digital covid certificate have really been the necessary tools that have helped restore business confidence, and thus boost tourism demand ahead of the summer season. this was absolutely critical: in may 2020, the travel and tourism business confidence indicator was at its lowest of all ecosystems. there was a lot of talk about it, mrs. delli, back then. it was really a matter of great concern. in february 2021, just before the commission proposed the creation of the european digital covid-19 certificate, this indicator was still in the red. in june 2021, it finally became positive again, even far exceeding the pre-covid level. obviously, this is no coincidence in relation to what i told you. it is also no coincidence that three of the four member states with the best tourist performance this summer are among the countries which started using the digital certificate as soon as it was launched in june, i.e. one month before it came into force for the whole of the union. the digital certificate thus contributed well to the partial recovery of intra-eu tourism, especially in july and august 2021. thanks to this, many coastal destinations, especially rural ones, have welcomed more residents from neighbouring countries, thus compensating for the loss of travellers from north america or the asia-pacific regions. the european digital certificate has also encouraged airlines to finally reopen their routes and increase their offerings, thus improving our intra-european air connectivity. compared to 2019, the number of air routes served by our european airports increased from -57% in april to -16% in august. this is confirmed by a eurobarometer survey published in september 2021. for 65% of those surveyed, or almost two thirds, the european certificate is currently the most effective tool to facilitate travel within europe. that's how they see it. as for non-european travellers who wish to visit several european countries during their stay, the prospect of travelling freely within the schengen area, thanks in particular to the european certificate, has given new impetus and re-created the appetite to come to europe. the success of the european certificate now goes far beyond the european framework, since, in answering your legitimate questions, the wto cites it as a model, and we hope that it will be the model to follow. has the adoption of the european union covid certificate created difficulties for travellers? the information we have is of course fragmentary, but we can say that while the pandemic has increased delays due to controls (migration, customs and health), the introduction of the european certificate has really helped to reduce their duration considerably. the second question you asked me concerns the european covid-19 tourism safety label prepared by the european standards committee. 21 of its 34 member countries have adopted the two technical documents setting out the conditions for its award. thanks to a communication campaign around this label, notably through social networks, the open up to europe website and tv reports and also the promotion, it must be said, by the member states themselves, i can tell you tonight that this label has been widely visible and regarded as such. the third question concerns travel restrictions, with regard to information on the conditions for travel. the commission has maintained and improved the platform you know - and we have often spoken about it here in this house - re-open eu, which, i remind you, aggregates the information provided by the member states. in addition, on a proposal from the commission, the council adopted several recommendations aimed at better coordinating travel restrictions to and within the union. overall, holders of vaccination and recovery certificates travelling within the union should in principle not be subject to additional obligations such as, for example, screening tests or obviously even quarantine. persons holding a valid test certificate equivalent to the union health certificate should also be exempted from quarantine. although the implementation of these recommendations - i would of course remind you, but you all know this - is the responsibility of the member states, the commission is of course following all the elements of this situation very closely. i will conclude with the fourth question, on the evaluation of the financial support provided to the tourism ecosystem as a whole. i would remind you that the national recovery plans examined and approved by the commission so far have allocated nearly eur 11.6 billion to specific, well-targeted initiatives in the tourism sector. in addition, €5 billion of european regional development fund resources have themselves been allocated directly to tourism-specific investments over the past seven years. cohesion policy will of course continue to offer member states the opportunity to support projects in the coming years that contribute to a new, more resilient and sustainable tourism ecosystem; we've talked about it a lot. i would also like to remind you that since 2020, the european investment fund has mobilised over 1.2 billion in financing for over 21 000 small and medium-sized enterprises in the accommodation and catering sector alone. as you can see, the commission is of course still committed, and you can count on me, to facilitating access to european union funding for micro and small enterprises. it is absolutely essential to guide them also in the intricacies of our financing. it has also published a guide on european financing for tourism, which is also available - i should like to make this clear by going to the europa website. finally, preserving jobs has obviously been at the heart of our collective efforts throughout this pandemic. we can come back to the employment situation in tourism later, when we have collected the seasonally adjusted unemployment figures. we know there's been a lot of movement. we know there are a number of people who are not coming back to work. we know that this is a subject on which we must concentrate our efforts. in conclusion, i would like to say that the revival of tourism in europe this summer is obviously only a first step. my priority is to ensure that this recovery is of course sustainable - as president karima delli has said - and that it is a reality in all regions and for all tourism sectors. you will always find me at your side, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, and at the side of all tourism players, to accompany them in the inevitable and accelerating green and digital transformation they are facing and to help them make their offer more in line with the current aspirations of our fellow european citizens.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, we are entering a period of turbulence which has affected the world, but which has particularly affected europe, both in the management of our own resources and in the management of our borders, as well as in the multiplicity of restrictions and criteria. the union needs to reflect, learn from its failures and improve. europe must act more quickly and more efficiently, and it must do so taking into account the voice and the work of the european parliament. it is therefore entirely fair to praise the fact that the commission has implemented two of parliament's proposals, the applicability of which has resulted in a reduction in the lack of coordination and insecurity that existed in the midst of the pandemic crisis. i mean the union digital certificate and the covid-19 security seal. the balance of summer 2021 in some european tourist destinations was positive. in some cases, such as on the island of madeira, the occupancy rate has returned to pre-pandemic levels, largely thanks to the promotion of domestic tourism, but also as a result of measures and instruments that have allowed for the coordination, security and simplification of documents in the european area. the pandemic has also had an accelerating effect on the union's priorities for digital and environmental transition. we know and welcome the commitment of the regions, destinations, companies and tourism operators who, in a time of crisis, have invested in this twofold transition. commissioner breton, europe can and must do more. union support should not be limited to two or three union instruments. it is urgent to support member states by focusing on those that have been most affected. it is necessary to extend moratoriums, to create direct support. in portugal, my country, industry is crying out for support that has not yet arrived. the sure should be extended and the intermediate rate of vat should be reduced. i would like to conclude, commissioner, with a plea: tourism is made by and for people. it is urgent that the obligations of passenger rights are fulfilled, as there are many complaints under way. we can't ask more of one than the other.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. there's been a lot of discouraging data on tourism. i don't have to go back to that now, but behind the data are human destinies, companies, businesses, and that's why i want to confirm to you that as vice-chair of the tran committee and as a delegated ambassador of the un world tourism organization, i have been visiting partner organizations, social organizations, in the past period. i was just in malta the other day, talking to the mediterranean tourism foundation. this is a big deal. the biggest problem is instability, the fact that entrepreneurs and workers in the industry - let alone travelers - can't figure out what's coming next, where the rules are. there was the thomas cook bankruptcy, followed by the pandemic. today, the failure of small businesses, the decline in trust, a whole host of factors that show otherwise the need for a long-term sustainable strategy for tourism. not to mention that this is the green deal, which must include tourism, but if we put commitments in the green deal at the european level that are destroying some of the players in the industry, we are not helping anyone. so we need coordination. the commission and parliament have done their job. commissioner breton has personally done a lot for the covid certificate and vaccination in europe. but i would like to know that in the industrial strategy tourism has been placed in the top fourteen, what will this mean in the single market instrument, how will it be and how much money will be for tourism? my second question is: why not, commissioner, create a european tourism union on the model of the european health union? a common programme that helps coordination, common policies, but certainly does not take away the competence of the national governments. but we need coordination at european level, we need to do it together, you and we, the european tourism union, as the commission and parliament have done with the european health union programme.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, tourism has been through a difficult period. this is the sector most affected by the pandemic: many people have lost their jobs. now is the time to rethink this sector. the tourism sector, and especially mass tourism, has a strong impact on climate change and nature. it contributes to 8% of global co2 emissions and these are continuing to increase. but it is also a very vulnerable sector, as it is also a victim of climate change and biodiversity loss. since the beginning of the pandemic, we greens have asked the commission to ensure that the recovery of the tourism sector is consistent with the green deal. we must ensure that the recovery plans drawn up and the investments made in this sector ensure a transition to sustainable tourism, tourism that is fair to people and the planet. every aspect of tourism must be sustainable, from mobility to housing. but what is the commission doing to encourage and monitor the ecological transition in the tourism sector, so that we do not return to the status quo? local authorities and small and medium-sized enterprises play a key role in this transition. but how much of the funding actually corresponds to the objectives of the green deal? finally, tourism must be accessible and affordable for everyone, including those who for various reasons cannot be vaccinated. the european union digital covid certificate is a successful initiative to allow people in the european union to travel again. but there is a need to increase funding for screening and make testing free for everyone, to ensure that access to the certificate remains guaranteed for all and to avoid discrimination.
on behalf of the ecr group. - i'm not going to tell you. the tourism industry is an important but also very sensitive part of our economy. it is also a key area for job creation in many member states. the recovery of tourism in the european union was therefore a very important task, which was largely achieved by the introduction of a system of mutual recognition of test results or eu vaccination certificates. however, many europeans have decided to forgo their holidays abroad this year and instead choose to spend them in their country of residence. some of them made this choice consciously, but for many, the health requirements, restrictions and bureaucracy associated with the covid-19 pandemic were the reason for not travelling to another member state. how does the commission intend to fill this still large information gap related to travel in europe during the pandemic? the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources and does not adversely affect trading conditions to an extent contrary to the common interest. what support can the tourism industry expect from the european commission ahead of the next holiday season?
madam president, commissioner, unfortunately the pandemic has left behind it enormous health and socioeconomic impacts in all areas. but no one can deny the enormous work and the important efforts made by the european union in the health and socioeconomic fields, especially with the creation of the recovery fund, which we supported and continue to support because we believe it is the beginning of a new era in which the european union will be able to support the member states and the peoples when they are faced with crises and challenges. there is no doubt that tourism is the engine of the european economy and unfortunately this sector has been hit hard and is the first victim of the pandemic. i find the evidence to be overwhelming and overwhelming. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on tourism and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on tourism and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on tourism. i believe that tourism is still the poor relation of the european union, and that is self-evident, since the european union has not yet drawn up any comprehensive plan to support tourism. i believe that the time has come for the european union to develop a comprehensive european strategy for tourism and a strong recovery plan for the tourism sector, because in this way, when tourism is strengthened, the economy is strengthened, society is strengthened, and multiple jobs are created. i firmly believe that every euro that the european union invests in tourism and the tourist product will bring a multiplier return to the economy and society with direct benefits to all european citizens, especially workers and small and mediumsized enterprises.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the green pass, together with vaccines, is one of the success stories of the european union. let me proudly claim the decisive role of parliament, which immediately saw the need for it and persistently overcame the resistance of the member states. we have created a flexible and interoperable european instrument which has restored freedom of movement and allowed the tourist industry to have a nearly normal summer season. but let us not make the mistake of thinking that everything can go back to the way it was. we cannot let tourism fall into oblivion again, without tackling in a structural way the problems highlighted by covid. the economic damage has been enormous and the lack of funds to operate the digital transformation is evident, as is the urgent need to invest in sustainability and energy efficiency. the good words of support during the pandemic must now be matched by concrete actions to reform and really revive tourism at european level.
madam president, covid-19 has hit the tourism sector in a dramatic way, due to the strong restrictive measures that have been implemented. in countries such as portugal, where the economy has been promoted by an excessive concentration and dependence on the tourism sector, which in turn depends on a limited number of markets to the detriment of the productive sectors, the repercussions of these impacts spill over into the whole economy and society. we have called on several occasions for a comprehensive response to ensure specific support for micro, small and mediumsized enterprises in this sector and to protect their workers, their jobs and their incomes. for many of these companies and workers, the response was delayed and the support was, is and will be insufficient. the tourism sector has, however, other viruses that are important to deal with: the viruses of precariousness, deregulation and the lack of rationality in its socioeconomic and territorial organization. the response required is suitable for all seasons: support and incentives that promote the recovery and sustainability of the sector, based on work with rights and the valuation of workers and their wages, and serving the objective of contributing to the development of the member states in the framework of their strategies for social and territorial cohesion. all this is accompanied by public investment in the mobility of populations and the diversification of economic activities, with a view to reducing the structural dependencies of each country.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the tourism industry is a slaughterhouse today. it's the part of the economy that's most affected by the great battle that humanity has been and is still fighting with covid-19. our role is not just to assess the damage and compensate for the losses as we can collectively afford. our job is to learn from what happened. too many local communities are virtually 100% dependent on tourism. we're taking the health safety of mass tourism too lightly. we're too slow to react to threats. we're treating the wounds of a pandemic too chaotically. it's a lesson from what we've been through. but we also have great challenges ahead of us. we have to save the climate. so tourism has to change, too. we need to coordinate public health management better and tourism needs to be included in that management. and we have to respect the hosts of the places and the places that we visit as tourists. and just like the pandemic, there is one answer to these challenges: common challenges require common action. let's not allow the prospect of another pandemic to paralyze us with fear. on the contrary, may it fill us with the courage to work together more closely.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by mr raphaël glucksmann, on behalf of the special committee on foreign interference in all democratic processes in the european union, including disinformation, on disinformation and the role of social media (o-000060/2021 - b9-0038/21) (2021/2870 ((rsp)).
madam president, democratic backsliding is at a crisis point, as freedom house has pointed out. according to their democracy index, 2020 is the 16th consecutive year of the decline in global freedom. it is astonishing to record that less than 20% of people across the globe live in free countries in 2021. commissioner breton, as you yourself said, ‘reforming the digital space is a matter of survival for our democracies’, and i don’t believe that is hyperbole. putin’s russia has been seeking to poison our democracy, both literally and figuratively. this evening our focus is on social media platforms. as many other speakers have pointed out, facebook has once again messed up, and the senate heard today that, with the flick of a switch, facebook could stop the weakening of our democracies. facebook could make the internet safer for our children. with the flick of a switch, it could stop hate, but it chooses profit over people. as mr glucksmann has pointed out, our tools are woefully inadequate to meet these challenges.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. disinformation is not only a huge social and political challenge, but above all a weapon that is aimed at europeans every day. every interaction with social media means exposure to fake news and manipulation, especially on political issues. the platforms that are the main sources of information today are either unwilling or unable to deal with this threat. this situation is being eagerly exploited by the intelligence services of many countries, which have included online disinformation in their arsenal of hybrid warfare against countries such as poland. this is clearly seen in the current migration crisis on the eastern border of the european union. will the commission take decisive action against those actors, especially online media, but also traditional media, which mindlessly repeat the theses of belarusian and russian propaganda that attacks the european union?
madam president, i welcome this debate today. i'm a big supporter of free speech, but unfortunately, we live in a time where we're seeing the targeted spread of misinformation, hybrid wars, attempts to influence, manipulate public opinion, and thereby undermine our democracies. it's a different time, and putin's russia is the frontrunner. i see it in us in the czech republic, trying to influence misinformation in public opinion, and we have to respond to that, we have to respond to that by tightening the rules and tightening the rules for individual online platforms, which have to be much more responsible for the content of their messages. it is a necessity for them, and it is the commission's business, it is your business, commissioner, to find solutions to protect freedom of expression on the one hand and prevent fake news from threatening our democracies on the other.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. european unity and coherence in communication efforts is very much needed to prevent further negative effects of the crisis in the information space and to build a narrative of the need to counter hostile acts of a hybrid nature, especially on the eastern border of the european union. systematic and systematic, adequately funded, pragmatic action at union level is urgently needed to expose and counter hostile state-sponsored disinformation. in recent days, we have seen increasingly clear signs of the intensification of hostile authoritarian states, especially belarus and russia, which are trying to exploit the migration crisis on the eastern external border of the european union to weaken it by spreading disinformation that particularly affects selected member states, such as poland or the baltic states, the unity of the union itself and the community of democratic states. we see more and more clearly how lukashenko is instrumentally using the issue of human rights in the context of the migration crisis on the polish-belarusian border to escalate poland with the help, unfortunately, of various useful idiots, as lenin once said, to address the left-wing intelligentsia. ladies and gentlemen, the european union has the instruments and the means to defend itself against this disinformation.
madam president, the global phenomenon and challenge of online disinformation gained visibility over the recent years. the 2016 us presidential elections, brexit and russia’s hybrid war against ukraine are only examples of this growing trend. new serious cases of foreign interference and disinformation are being revealed every month. for instance, there is now the migration crisis from belarus, which aims at weakening our community of democratic countries, and especially poland and the baltic states. indeed, lukashenko’s regime is instrumentally using human rights issues in the context of the migration crisis on the border to defame poland and other member states. all these events highlight the crucial role that online platforms play in spreading conspiracy theories and disinformation. i believe this issue is especially relevant today as we are legislating on the digital services act. against these growing threats the dsa should be designed to improve content moderation on social media platforms and to stop illegal content and disinformation from spreading. at the same time, we need to protect citizens’ freedom of speech and different views which fuel our democratic debate. as the shadow rapporteur of this legislation, i believe we should find the right balance between freedom of speech and fighting disinformation, while preventing over-removal of content online.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. "you have to make a difference between the citizens of the country under attack". so wrote an ancient chinese strategist, and so does putin. it funds a troll farm, but also organizations and political parties that challenge democracy and human rights. but how can we fight putin's "democracy" if we allow the eu government to spread disinformation? we allow the anti-democrats to maintain power through state lies and hate speech. we forget that democracy is not just the absence of voter fraud, that systematic brainwashing is never democracy. it's because of misinformation that autocrats don't have to rig elections, because they rig the world before the election. and let me be clear: putin will be able to save a few kopecks on his trolls as long as we allow the government of any state in the union to rob its citizens of the right to information and give itself the right to state hate speech.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
this is a closed session. it will resume tomorrow, wednesday, october 6, 2021, at 9:00 a.m. and will begin with the announcement of the results of the second part of today's vote. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! let me give you an example of the price increases in just one eu country in the last few days. since the beginning of the year, the price of a cubic meter of gas has increased by 200% in this country. the price of electricity by 152%. on tuesday, the price of gas exceeded $1,160 per cubic meter, and was 8% higher than a week ago, which means it is seven times higher than the previous year. wind farms produce less energy, gas extraction has been reduced, and storage is on average 58 percent full. what kind of country is this? it is the netherlands, the home country of commissioner timmermans, who is the author of the 'fit for 55' plan, which is intended to improve the future situation of the energy market in europe. is that what's going to happen? i don't think so, you know. and we should be very deliberate about these solutions. why would you do that? you've all talked about what caused the energy price increases in the ets. where did those decisions go? in this house, it was the european union that gave the green light to such a solution. it is the european parliament, the european commission that did not oppose gazprom's implementation of nord stream 2. today we have the effects of that. so if we want to save europeans from a very, very serious energy crisis, both in terms of social issues and energy security, we really need to rethink the energy policy of the european union.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the price of emission allowances is now above eur 60, although at the beginning of the year it was around eur 30. emission trading cannot be considered as market mechanisms. it is currently a highly speculative market, while russia is deliberately restricting the flow of gas to europe and doing so to force the union to launch nord stream 2 faster. this is part of the huge energy pressure, as the new pipeline will increase gazprom's position on the eu market and provide additional tools to limit the political, economic and regulatory freedom of the european union. european companies are losing competitiveness and citizens are benefiting from energy increases. the european union should design a long-term european energy and climate policy so that climate concerns go hand in hand with the energy security of our citizens and businesses. one thing that is important is that the economy needs rationality, pragmatism, not ideologization.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. some time ago, i published an article entitled "electricity becoming a luxury commodity in europe". the title was meant to be provocative, but it turned out to be prophetic. in spain and portugal, the price per megawatt hour reached eur 190. on a similar scale, electricity is also becoming more expensive in italy, and in general throughout the european union. there's no end to this panic. countries at the forefront of green propaganda, like the netherlands, are turning to coal-fired technology to stabilize prices and ensure a steady supply of energy. for the first time in decades, the rich societies of western europe began to fear poverty and the cold. unfortunately, that's the price of the green order. it's not a crisis, it's a result, as the polish writer stefan kisielewski would say. because that's the cost of rushing to decarbonize and trusting in renewable energy that just doesn't work. of course, brussels can handle the chaos. all we need to do is rationalize and adapt climate policy to societal expectations and economic opportunities. let's do it while there's still time, before it's too late, before people are out on the streets. otherwise, european energy will forever be dependent on the whims of the weather and russian roulette. the conclusion is this: the west, which had freed itself from the trap of arab oil, fell into the trap of russian dictatorship. what a shame!
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! napoleon bonaparte once said, "to wage war, you need money, money, and more money". to paraphrase, today putin needs gas, gas and more gas to dominate the european union. yes, russia's gazprom and its flagship nord stream 2 project are, through their actions, affecting the price of natural gas, causing it to rise, which will translate into higher bills across the european union. today, it doesn't take tanks to bring europe to its knees. today, the kremlin and its european allies will do. green energy is important, but at the moment there is no way to meet half of our needs. mr. timmermans, wherever you are, it's time to reflect and revise your over-ambitious plans. today, the people of europe are paying for it and will continue to pay for it. it's only a matter of time before europe has to apologize to coal. otherwise, we could face a wave of corporate collapse and high costs that will affect all of us, especially the poorest. let's be practical about this. let's stop floating in green clouds!
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. fellow workers! it is a disaster: we are seeing the european union's energy policy and climate policy collapse before our eyes! what do we say to the europeans who are worried about the fact that the price of energy, gas, water, garbage, the cost of living has increased many times over? all we have to say to them is that it's good that there's an ets, it's good that it's on the speculative market, and not only that it affects the cost of living of citizens, we also want to add to this the aviation market, the marine market, the passenger cars market, the buildings market. yes, let the commission really stress how important this is, and let it be glad to lose credibility altogether. at the same time, he is happy and does nothing with gazprom and nord stream 2. on several occasions, the two political groups, s&d and epl, have rejected the possibility of a resolution that would have forced the commission to stop nord stream 2.
madam president, understanding the future of energy systems is extremely challenging, and as policy makers, we must not sell simpler narratives to win public support. we have a responsibility to every citizen to work in their best interests, and that means switching to clean energy – but it also means keeping the lights on in the meantime with transitional fuels. the solution is the accelerated deployment of renewables and improved energy efficiency to reduce reliance on volatile markets. how europe handles the energy transition will not just determine our economic future, but it will determine the very social cohesion of the entire union. we cannot allow a situation where the most vulnerable are left with rising energy costs, nor can we strangle our economy as we equip ourselves with green energy. member states must pay particular attention to those in danger of energy poverty. permitting requirements and incentive schemes for renewable energy are dealt with at national level and member states must do more to fast track positive energy projects. in ireland, this is a major problem, and i call on the government to ensure that renewable projects procedures are streamlined, particularly offshore wind, and sufficient attention paid to grid development so that this energy can be utilised. by their very nature, wind and solar are intermittent. yes, the future is green, but this future will only be reached if we allow for a sensible transition.
madam president, commissioner, by scheduling this debate the european parliament has given an important signal that it understands what the citizens are concerned about and wants to be on the side of the solution. i regret that the socialists and democrats' proposal to attach a resolution to this debate was not accepted. but that's no excuse for not taking action, because action is necessary. many say that the spike in energy prices is a natural consequence of the market and as such must be accepted. it is true that there was a spike in demand, a sign of recovery in the european economy, but it is also true that this circumstance was accompanied by multiple moves to exploit market failures, to generate short-term profits or to condition the energy transition in the medium and long term. we must stop these dynamics with concrete responses: by continuing to invest in renewables, which already bring lower prices to the clean energy market than fossil fuels. using the carbon market and the funds it generates as an emergency resource to tackle energy poverty and support companies in greater difficulty. investing in the development of renewable energy storage capacity, in particular green hydrogen and batteries. multiplying the interconnections to make the market more fluid and resistant to maneuvers like the ones we denounced here today. and by promoting more transparent and community-engaged distributed energy systems. this price spike is a warning. this is not a time to waver in europe's commitment to the energy transition, but rather an opportunity to respond to its enemies with measures to promote human dignity, economic innovation and environmental sustainability.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, minister, what is it? this is what we were really after. with the emissions trading, we wanted to bring about higher energy prices and now we have succeeded. the only flaw in this context is that we have some systemic flaws in the way the whole programme is structured. if you look at the old data on effort sharing, you see that some countries got off very lightly in the past. and now they're in trouble. when we simultaneously try to put renewables on hold for ideological reasons, we are creating new problems. at the same time, it seems that someone in the commission hoped that the hydrogen solutions would come sooner than they will. we don't see any investment yet at that point. so we have basically set the stage for this problem, and now we have to try to solve it in the future negotiations. and then we have another system failure. that system flaw is called russia. russia's budget is terribly dependent on high energy prices. so, congratulations and welcome to reality!
president. - ladies and gentlemen, in the long term, the answer is clear. the best protection against energy price increases is more because cheaper renewable energy. but that's not enough. four out of five europeans are concerned about rising energy bills and want to see solutions now. we must therefore support those who are struggling to make ends meet by offering them a cheaper social tariff for energy. and we also need to help save energy. the european social climate fund can be a great instrument for this. but then, at last, polluting companies will have to pay for their emissions. let's put those billions to work to get everyone on board with the climate transition.
madam president! the commissioner began her speech by saying that there was less power because there was less wind. it's scary to think that maybe he's going to subsidize wind in the future. ladies and gentlemen, i don't want to trivialize this problem, but let's remember that all investments in renewable energy also have costs. they're very expensive. they're worthless. i'm asking for a controversy vote on this matter if anyone disagrees with me. i'll present the evidence. ladies and gentlemen, we need some power, a stable source of power. and that could give us a low-carbon gas. this could give us nuclear power. and yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, you had the opportunity to support a good solution, that money flows from the european union to companies that want to invest in gas, that want to build, for example, gas storage tanks. but 428 meps from the epp, s&d and renew voted against such a position. and now you're crying about putin blackmailing you. where the truth is, we know very well: it's big business. this is a german business. renewable energy is simply too expensive, and let's face it: europe will lose if it tries to rely on renewables alone.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. we have been experiencing a rapid rise in energy prices throughout the european union for some time. this directly affects both our citizens and businesses, especially those energy-intensive ones, which also represent our security and prosperity. there are several reasons, but the main ones are the rising prices of energy resources, especially gas, and the increase in the price of co2 emission allowances. these are challenges that we can only address together. in europe, it is necessary to return to the idea of an energy union with the aim of diversification, joint purchases of natural gas as a transitional fuel in the transition and maintaining gas stocks at an appropriate level. this is, inter alia, the low stock levels, in particular in the warehouses controlled by one of the companies, which is the reason for the increase in the price of this raw material. the crisis in the gas market is also caused by the rising high prices of fertilisers, which translates into food prices and availability. we should also look at the ets market is the increase in the price of allowances driven by the activity of companies obliged to buy allowances only, or is it caused by the activity of financial institutions and speculation? as part of the long-term action, i would like to call on the commission to include gas as a transitional fuel and atom in the taxonomy as soon as possible. if we don't do this, if we don't make it easier for businesses to secure stable, low- and zero-emission electricity, we could face similar crises every year. it could also derail our climate goals and cause energy poverty and corporate bankruptcy.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i came here to the european parliament from silesia. silesia has been exploited for years, not to mention colonized by various states. our autonomy was taken away completely illegally by a communist decree. even though we were all spoon-fed glass houses and economic independence before the plebiscite. upper silesia is still the energetic heart of poland. however, the restructuring of the mining sector and of the entire heavy industry was not carried out in time. and i realize the challenge that we face. i did! i campaigned for a green silesia, with clean air, free of smog. i don't change my opinion, but we must bear in mind that the populist pis government has been deceiving the miners for 7 years, in silesian i would say "outwitted the miners", and we need a proper communication strategy, but above all new jobs in silesia and similar regions of europe. because already the populists are blaming the eu for the electricity price increases. in addition, we should use silesian coal instead of importing russian. this is what european solidarity is all about!
in writing. today we have a debate, but unfortunately we are not talking about how to prevent a possible increase in energy prices, because this increase has already happened. we have a situation that we have warned about many times in recent months and years. this crisis is a fact of life for eu citizens and businesses. and this is a reality that is becoming more difficult and more dramatic. for example, gas prices per cubic meter have risen by 200 percent since january 2021 alone, and electricity prices by more than 150 percent, in a country that aspires to be a model of renewable energy. this country is the netherlands, the home of the author of the 'fit for 55' package. unfortunately, the unrealistic climate policy that the european commission is pushing without taking into account the social costs is leading to an unimaginable increase in energy prices. when will the reflection and the will to prevent such a situation come? when will this house accept the fact that we cannot rely on renewable energy alone, if we ignore the need to build reserves? when we start using the wealth and natural resources that we actually have in a sensible and sustainable way to provide energy stability and security, to combat energy poverty, the spectre of which is more real than ever. it is high time for a change of course in the energy policy of the ec and many politicians in this institution.
madam president, i am livid that, at a time when businesses are failing, when whole countries are collapsing because of the pandemic, and when debt levels are rising, these unscrupulous individuals and unscrupulous companies have squirreled away tens of billions of euros in these tax havens. there is no such thing as offshore anyway. they are all onshore somewhere. this is all a fiction. these are just loopholes exploited by over—clever lawyers. and we can do something about it. we need the money, but we need to restore the moral basis of capitalism, or else. i ask the commission, why don’t we simply make it illegal for our citizens and our companies to hold accounts in the non-cooperating jurisdictions? and, if it doesn’t work, let’s send fleets to the caribbean, seize their documentation and expropriate the lot. this thievery has to stop now.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in this debate, we see that there is an absence that is more than eloquent. i mean, it's about commissioner jurova. she was so busy stalking hungary and poland, she didn't notice the problems in her own backyard. pandora papers has once again exposed the problems of her colleague, prime minister babis. the previous resolution of the european parliament on this issue showed how the czech republic spends eu funds, and your fellow commissioner de facto allocates these funds to himself. please note in your own rankings how exemplary poland spends the means for contrast, as if you want to attack next time. and today, the panama papers are revealing yet another of prime minister babis's strange transactions. the funds originated from unknown sources and were transferred in unknown ways. hidden somewhere in strange situations. what's the matter? and commissioner jurova is not here. he'll be back for the next debate on poland.
mr president i consider the fight against tax evasion and avoidance to be of the utmost importance. i feel, however, that this parliament is once again losing its purpose and its role. tax policy is a matter for the member states, let me remind the left again. it is no secret that europe's competitiveness is consistently lagging behind china and the united states. the union should support the establishment and maintenance of balanced and competitive tax systems in order to compete globally. attacking the countries that are cutting taxes, playing off each other, as the lalucq report urges, would create permanent tension. if it were to be implemented, our competitiveness would be eroded and the internal unity of the union would be further eroded. hungary is the best example of how tax cuts can increase government revenues, achieve economic growth above the eu average and reduce unemployment. i would like to see the left finally understand that a work-based society, not subsidies, low taxes would help the european economy recover and encourage companies to stay in the union. don't wish europe any harm.
mr president, commissioner, i cannot welcome the president of the council because he is not taking part in this debate, he has not wanted to take part in this debate. and the truth is that - as we said earlier - this discussion about the code of conduct group comes, at last, at a really delicate moment after the knowledge of the pandora papers. and the truth is that one does not quite understand the reduction of the countries that are part of that list of tax havens, nor does one quite understand how we can present ourselves to public opinion with that list of countries that is clearly unpresentable. let's just say it straight. and i think that at this point, after years of turning this question around, the only thing i hope, the only thing i ask the commission is not to put forward a list again which the council then retouches, empties and completely refines - as i said - by removing countries from it. the next time you come to parliament, commissioner, tell us that the council is making it difficult for you to present that list, because we are certainly making it ridiculous and the council is going crazy, because people think that the commission and parliament are the ones who draw up that list, when it is some governments who end up blocking it and doing outrageous things.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. when we talk about reforming the code, we have to start with what it is and why it was created. its main objective was to curb unfair practices by tax-competing countries in the european union. in addition, changes in the economic environment have also justified the need to adapt the code to the realities. as the polish delegation of the ecr, we support the pursuit of a fair tax system at international and eu level, but we do not support solutions that deprive member states of influence on the guidelines. we're against changing the decision-making process to majority rule. remaining committed to the principle of consensus is necessary to ensure that the group can find common solutions that take account of the interests of all countries and build the strength of the european union. we also believe that in combating fraud, tax competition as such should not be condemned. healthy and fair tax competition is important for the strength of the european economy.
mr president, what is the european way of life? or rather, what should characterize it? we know very well that the defence of human rights, civil and political rights, but above all, what is specific to europe is the defence of social and economic rights. in other words, there is no european model of life without the welfare state. but there is no welfare state without a sufficient and equitable tax base. how else can we finance public services which guarantee our fundamental rights, our social rights, without a solid tax base? the existence of tax havens is therefore a direct threat to the european way of life. aggressive tax planning practices and unfair tax competition are a threat. the commission estimates that the equivalent of 10% of european gdp is diverted through tax havens every year. and the 2021 report said that every year we lose between 36 and 37 billion euros in corporate tax. this fiscal dumping occurs at three levels: between member states, between the union and third countries and, within member states, between regions. the community of madrid, in this respect, is a dramatic example with its aggressive tax planning policies. we must fight these three problems and, as we know very well, tax harmonization is the unfinished chapter of the european economic project.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs lalucq on this excellent report. every half year a new tax scandal, and that in ever larger proportions panama papers, paradise papers and now the pandora papers, die noch keine zwei tage alt sind. we can simply no longer go over to the normal agenda. tell us, how it is: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax is not abused. the tax incentive is simple and effective diebstahl diebstahl an unserer gesellschaft, diebstahl an all den menschen und kleinen unternehmen, die da draußen brav ihre steuern zahlen. the tax incentive is a form of tax incentive which is designed to encourage the taxpayer to pay more in taxes than in other forms of tax. although the tax scandals that have engulfed the beautiful names of caribbean countries, we must not forget that taxation is so complex and so harmful that it is not uncommon in europe. this is precisely why this report on the reform of eu policy in combating harmful tax practices is so essential. the frequency and scale of tax scandals show one thing: we need more transparency, we need more effective and much more efficient controls. the aim of the lalucq-report is precisely that the european code of conduct for business taxation simply is no longer up to date and therefore no longer efficient. furthermore, the report recognises that although we already knew this, it has not yet been implemented: there is a need for binding measures against tax offenders. it is quite simply sanktionen. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. because everyone has to make a fair contribution to our society. we can do this. we need political courage and will to do this, which is really necessary.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. fellow workers! the code of conduct was established to curb unfair tax practices in the member states. the principles of this code are still valid, because unfortunately they are not effective enough. the group has been in existence for over 20 years. during this time, economic and political realities changed. new economic challenges have emerged, but progress has also been made in the fight against tax fraud. today, it is appropriate to review the criteria of the code and to streamline the group's decision-making process. despite the group's guidelines, many member states have opaque tax systems, leading to surprising situations. member states lose more cit revenue to other community members than to traditional tax havens such as the cayman islands. this is what european solidarity looks like in practice. as the polish delegation of the ecr, we support the pursuit of a fair tax system with healthy competition but without the possibility of abuse. the key to success is not to limit the influence of the member states on the european solution. we simply do not agree with the change from unanimity to majority decision-making within the group. in seeking the best solution, the interests of all members of the union should be taken into account and consensus should be sought. healthy competition, even in such a difficult area as taxation, should never be prohibited. it is only necessary to create the right framework for it, to ensure fair play.
mr president, the timing of this debate is symbolic. when we struggle to recover after the pandemic, the multinationals and the rich want to avoid taxes ‘whenever, wherever’ to quote one of the celebrities that popped up in the pandora papers. this is wrong, but unfortunately, very often legal. we need concrete solutions to close existing loopholes. first, coordination on the global level with a minimum tax rate, and a mechanism to allocate profits of companies. we cannot accept tax havens and the privileged distorting our tax systems. second, revisiting the criteria of the eu tax havens blacklist. why is it that some jurisdictions mentioned in the pandora papers are not on our blacklist? maybe we also need to apply real sanctions against companies that do not pay their fair share. third, we need to put our european house in order. we cannot preach tax fairness if we have tax havens in the eu.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. we don't understand, we don't understand what's going on with the polish reconstruction plan. we can't understand it because everything was going well until july of this year. we agreed on the most important issues, the polish government agreed on the most important issues, including the decarbonisation of the polish economy, that is, the energy industry. but now, in my opinion, the commission is breaking all the rules of european solidarity without any legal basis, and this after the tragedy of covid. i'm saying it again after the tragedy of covid. this is dramatic. after all, these funds are supposed to go to businessmen, to local governments, to sick people. you are holding back the process of rebuilding and healing the european economy by your wrong attitude towards poland. is this fair on the part of the european commission? is that a fair way to put it? poland submitted a complete restructuring plan and the commission did not approve it, nor did it provide a single thread or reason why it did not approve it. he won't say when he'll approve it. this is also a question for the commissioner: is this the way to treat a country which is a member of the european union, a full member of the european union? if something's wrong, you have to write or say that you're going to fix this or that. there's no such information. there is only information that we are a country without a rule of law, but at the same time there is information that - of course from the mouths of the commissioners, because we hear it in individual statements - if poland renounces the constitution, if it renounces its legal sovereignty, its system and recognizes the european legal system, then it will be ok. that's also very unfair. so i think we have a lot to do in terms of building european solidarity in the recovery plan after the covid tragedy, which affected not the left, not the right, but the people, the businesses, the european economy. let us consider whether this is the way we should build a system of european solidarity.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. this is a very important debate for us, poles, for polish entrepreneurs, for polish local governments. and today we need to hear the truth and the facts. because we've already heard from the polish minister that the plan was approved, it's complete, in july, that the money was supposed to be in august, september at the latest. today is october, and we still don't know why. is it true that this document is simply not complete and does not meet all the criteria and expectations, the principles laid down in the regulation, for reasons such as the transparency mentioned here or the structure of the monitoring committee or committees which do not meet the expectations? does the prime minister's request to the constitutional court, if the plan is accepted and complete, allow these measures to be implemented as soon as possible, or does it delay them? and is it true, and is the advance at risk, if this consent and full acceptance is not given by the end of the year? what happens to the 13 percent advance if this plan is not approved and accepted by the end of the year? the poles are waiting for these funds. they're expecting them. they are vital to the polish economy. and it's not government money. that's why we want to get them to the final beneficiaries, to local governments, to entrepreneurs and to poles, as soon as possible. but those conditions must, of course, be clear and met. we expect a clear and honest answer.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i would like to start with the words of the prime minister of the polish government: 'we do not accept a relationship with the european commission on a 'sir and client' basis. poland has no master over her. it's not a vassal relationship. poland will not apply for something on the basis of asking (...) . and now, commissioner, i would like to return to your speech. i listened very carefully to what you said and i noted these three points: you said, first, transparency; second, accountability; and third, ownership. you ended with a phrase referring to the rule of law. cicero said history is the teacher of life, so i'd like to go back to history. how have eu funds been settled over the years by countries that have automatically received the european commission's approval of their recovery plans today? what was it like in poland? and now, commissioner, you spoke about the rule of law, so i would like to ask how does the rule of law relate to the regulation and the law in force in the european union in the face of what is being done to poland today? is this in line with european union law? is that in accordance with the regulation? august 1st is the deadline. what about this right, commissioner, in the european union?
madam president, please. what's going on here today is political pressure and blackmail. but there's nothing surprising about that, it's a left-wing approach. in june, we were close to agreeing with the commission on the recovery plan, and then hungary adopted the child protection act, and the commission put forward new demands. the commission must not forget its mandate: it can only act on the basis of eu law, it cannot apply double standards, it cannot impose extra conditions on certain member states in order to disburse the money. don't get any illusions, we're not for sale. we're not going to let the child protection act go. we don't discriminate, but we do allow parents to teach their children about sex. our international credit rating has improved further in the past week, with access to funds on the same terms as the european union. so we start the restoration on our own, because that's what the hungarian people deserve. there will be healthcare improvements, the green and digital transition. i ask the commission, since we are ready for dialogue, not to jeopardise its own credibility any further, to have the courage to put an end to this story and to give the green light to the hungarian and polish recovery plans.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, probably 90% of the debate so far has been about the fact that a few countries that have submitted their recovery and resilience plans are likely to be rejected. in this connection, i would like to say a few things. first, it's a tool not for governments, but for nations to deal with the impact that the coronavirus crisis has had on them. secondly, this is the lesser problem, because there are still countries that have not submitted their plans at all. as has already been made clear, one of those countries is the netherlands and the other is bulgaria. in this regard, because i love my country, especially when it is run in a way that is alarming, i would ask the commissioner: first, is there any way that countries that have not submitted recovery and resilience plans could be at risk of losing european funds? second, is there a way for countries that are currently run by governments that are unable to submit a recovery and resilience plan to get some help from the european commission so that the people of these two countries don't lose access to european funding, which is so important in this case? finally, is there a mechanism by which the european commission can, in such situations, make sure that countries meet deadlines even when they are governed by caretaker governments which cannot be held responsible for meeting those deadlines? finally, is the submission of recovery and resilience plans linked to the approval of operational programmes, are the two linked, does the lack of approval of the plan jeopardise the approval of operational programmes?
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the national reconstruction program that the polish government used to take beautiful pictures with big checks still hasn't been accepted in brussels. the two main priorities of the recovery fund are investments in green solutions and digital development. the polish government is trying to show that it is playing green, and the average pole still does not know what energy mix he wants to offer us. what is the role of coal, atomic, wind energy? the polish government, with the commission, is launching digital solutions, and with the new order, it is taking money from local governments, which are responsible for education, including digital education. the kpo is supposed to be long-term to keep us going, and the only longer term we know is to extend the concession to turov. very green and friendly to our neighbors, by the way. so why was it written polish kpo? to quote prime minister morawiecki's favorite band, which is unfortunately only for the money.
madam president, the funds from the stability and recovery mechanism, mr gentiloni, are an important positive step and must be applied in all 27 member states, applying the rules that apply to both society and the economy and to many others. the european union rightly calls for rules on deficits and debts to be in place and respected by all 27 member states, and we must all respect the rules on respect for the rule of law. the european parliament has called for and succeeded in establishing a mechanism with conditionalities, with selectivity, which links community funds to respect for the rule of law. this mechanism must be respected, because it has the signatures of parliament and the commission and the 27 member states. there have been enough delays. one last thing: we are asking for transparency from you and the governments of hungary and poland. what are you negotiating? what are you two stuck with? it is not just you who can know behind closed doors what issues are not yet agreed upon. the people of poland and hungary, who are waiting for these funds to be used to solve the problem, are entitled to them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, poland is due to receive eur 24 billion from the recovery fund in november, but in accordance with the conditionality mechanism that accompanies this fund, the commission has informed poland that it will first have to comply with the ruling of the court of justice of the european union. when the polish constitutional court challenged the luxembourg court and ruled that national law had primacy over community law, the commission blocked the release of the funds. in spain the supreme court, in particular judge llarena, also challenged the luxembourg court, which on 30 july said that the euro-orders issued by this court against three members of this house - president puigdemont, clara ponsatí and myself - are suspended. however, last week this judge informed the italian judicial authorities that he does not intend to suspend the european arrest warrant, ignoring the decision of the european court. commissioner gentiloni, will the commission apply the same standard to spain as to poland? will the next tranche of the recovery fund in spain also be blocked until the supreme court respects the decision of the european court? and if he doesn't, why the double standard? we are asking some countries to comply with european law if they want european funds and not others? - you did? is this the europe we want?
the commission has already done so. the corona aid is a rebuilding aid. the fact that europe is helping is an expression of european solidarity in the event of a crisis, and it is obvious that this support must be linked to the future. the commission has therefore decided to commit appropriations to investments in the energy transition, digitalisation, education and the rule of law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. why are there repeated reports that this money is being used to plug holes in the budget instead of investing it in the future of our farms and our children? the commission is doing an outstanding job. but what the member states are doing in part is reminiscent of the chaos of structural policy. the european union has a long way to go in this area. ladies and gentlemen, the corona relief is an emergency relief. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european regional development fund. there can't be a corona of n+1, n+2, n+3! if the countries do not use this money wisely, the credit line must be reduced, the corresponding bonds must be reduced. we can't have any money accumulating, which ends up rewarding negligence or violations of our terms. parliament must now intervene. the crisis must be dealt with now, not in a few years. this is true in hungary and poland as well as in all other european countries.
madam president, the process is long and complicated, but compliance with the rules of compliance with the eu's broad policies may explain the sometimes laborious implementation of the recovery and resilience facility. let us not underestimate the significance of how the recovery plan is becoming a reality. the conditionality inherent in the recovery plan allows us to make a big leap in solidarity integration at european level, and this, under certain conditions. first, the ability to absorb next generation eu funds in too short a time frame may be problematic. either the beneficiary countries are facing specific procedural or administrative difficulties, in which case technical assistance is needed to overcome these difficulties; the commission's legitimate requirements may have the effect of slowing down the process and this too must be remedied. secondly, it is important to ensure that the competition rules are respected so as not to impede the proper functioning of the internal market. thirdly, i fully agree with what katalin cseh and valerie hayer, two colleagues in my political group, have said about conditionality. i'll sign with both hands. one last point: the challenges we face in health and in the fight against climate change make me think that next generation eu should not be the last of its kind. it all depends on the political will of our institutions and how we manage this facility.
madam president! i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! i will begin by expressing my firm opposition to the statements that have been made against my country, poland, as if poland were a country without the rule of law and without respect for european values. i think that many of you who have said that would be happy and would like to live in such a law-abiding and european country. second, let's get down to the facts. the polish government has submitted a national recovery plan in accordance with the rules. no official complaint has been filed against him. the question is therefore: why is this happening, when president von der leyen has clearly said that the only criterion for conditionality will be financial irregularities, when poland is one of the few countries in the european union with an excellent record in this respect? finally, mr president, mr prime minister, we were both prime ministers, we sat in the european council. wouldn't it be better -- and this is a bitter reflection, i'm sorry to say -- to veto than to trust that there would be a fair game and that all countries would be treated equally? i hope that poland will finally be treated the same as other countries and our reconstruction plan, according to the rules, will be accepted.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. one thing is quite clear: eu money can only be granted in strict compliance with the rule of law and democratic principles. the billions of dollars spent on building up the economy must be used to benefit the people. they can't be left in dark holes or in the cousin farm. all citizens of the european union should benefit from the turbo for the recovery from the pandemic crisis and from the investment in the challenges of the future. sadly, however, some governments still stand in the way of their own people. the european commission cannot therefore approve a development plan which does not meet the commonly agreed objectives. there can be no false compromise here. the governments of hungary and poland have received concrete reform recommendations from the commission on the independence of the judiciary, media freedom and anti-corruption. implementing these reforms is and remains an important condition for the approval of fresh eu money, which is currently not being met by the governments in hungary or poland. yes, it requires dialogue and decisive action. the most powerful instrument for enforcing the rule of law is the new rule of law mechanism in the eu budget. four out of five eu citizens are in favour. ten months after its entry into force, the european commission must finally introduce it. it is a matter of seriousness and credibility, because it is a matter of taxpayer money. we don't have much time left.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. like most of my countrymen, i believe that poland should receive money from the national reconstruction plan as soon as possible. although the head of the national bank of poland has declared that the eu funds are not needed for poland because it is experiencing an economic miracle, these words cannot be taken seriously. like most meps, i believe that the funds transferred to the member states should be under the strict control of the european institutions. this also applies to my country, whose government has not, as is well known, joined the european public prosecutor's office. nevertheless, the commission cannot continue to maintain the polish recovery plan at the assessment stage. since there are rule of law concerns, the budgetary conditionality mechanism has been in place since 1 january. the european parliament has on several occasions called on the commission to use this mechanism and has even threatened legal action against the commission for its inaction. the commission therefore has an appropriate instrument at its disposal which it can use at any time.
madam president, the eu is blocking funds for poland because it believes that the constitution is higher than eu law. meanwhile, many eu countries have done exactly the same, including germany, which has, of course, already received its funds. in addition, you say that poland will only receive the funds if the constitutional tribunal rules as you wish in this matter. in other words, for years, you have been accusing poland of alleged lack of independence in the justice system and now what are you doing? you are putting the gun to the judges’ heads and saying they can only rule the way that you want. this is the new european standard of independence. when schuman watches what you are doing with his project, he turns in his grave – because he wanted to build solidarity between states and you are building walls. commissioner, you said that the most important thing for you is who spends money honestly. really? did you compare in your data czechia and poland? and this is the fundamental question: whose funds do you really block?
madam president, an excellent report. my congratulations to danuta. it made me ask myself a question: has the banking union been a success? my answer would be partially yes: the banks are stronger, better capitalised, better supervised and they survived the covid crisis quite well. but we have to remember that the ultimate rationale for the idea of the banking union is to provide transborder efficient flows of private capital. if this is not the case, we will fail. if we complete the institutional framework of the banking union, let’s look then at the results of it. will the private capital flow, or not? if not, then the euro will remain on shaky ground forever.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! in the cohesion policy package, the european commission proposed a new mechanism to remove legal and administrative barriers in a cross-border context. this tool, as established at union level, would allow the application of the legislation of one member state in a neighbouring country with the agreement of the competent authorities. studies of border areas show that they are economically worse off than other regions. access to various public services is more difficult. different legal and administrative systems generate additional costs for cooperation. the proposed legal solution to its mission is therefore worthy of support, especially since interreg crossborder cooperation programmes are not a sufficient tool to reduce existing barriers. however, the detailed arrangements contained in the draft regulation require further analysis. many of the rules require explanation because they are vague. if a member state chooses to apply the mechanism of the proposed regulation, one of two solutions is possible. the first is the conclusion of a european crossborder commitment, whereby certain provisions of a member state are applied in the territory of a neighbouring country. the second solution is to sign a european cross-border declaration. the authority signing the declaration undertakes to initiate legislative work within a specified timeframe to make the necessary changes to the legislation in force. there are many doubts about the first solution. the effect of the undertaking is to maintain the existing national rules. however, in the context of the implementation of a specific cross-border project, the undertaking allows for a derogation from these provisions. instead, the law of the neighbouring country will apply. hence the doubt as to whether this pathway could be applied to projects involving entities from the undertaking country. the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed solution is also questionable. a lengthy and multi-stage procedure for triggering the mechanism may prove to be of little help to the initiator of a cross-border project.
mr president, mr minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. if you say "a", you have to say "b". or: if you say interreg, you must also say ecbm. i come from a border region, i was the interreg negotiator for this house, and i know from practical experience that many crossborder projects simply fail because of legal and administrative obstacles, they do not come into being. this is very frustrating for project promoters and the people who live there. with this mechanism, it could all be a lot easier. the aim is to make it practical for a border region to apply the legislation of the neighbouring member state quite easily to a very specific, very detailed project. we heard examples of local passenger traffic. in the health sector, too, it is often very difficult to get an ambulance to the nearest hospital in the nearest foreign country in border regions in case of an emergency. in my border region, therefore, complicated agreements between member states - and even international treaties - were necessary to provide legal protection for such rescue operations. the mechanism proposed here could make such concrete projects much easier, much faster, much cheaper. in short, we need solutions from the member states. we in parliament were open to the commission's proposal and we made constructive suggestions for improvement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the transport of dangerous goods are respected. he wants and deserves a solution. we should work on that, and this mechanism could make that possible. there is no reason not to do so.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while almost one in three europeans lives in a border region, the council has decided not to continue work on the regulation on the creation of a european crossborder mechanism, a tool which the european parliament has called for. border regions are true small european laboratories, innovating and living europe every day. this is where we are building this beautiful european project. this regulation was therefore eagerly awaited in territories like mine, here in alsace. there is no doubt that if we had had this mechanism, then the tram from strasbourg to kehl would probably have been built much faster. there is no doubt that we would have made more rapid progress in our current project to use the energy consumed in a steelworks in kehl to heat strasbourg. these are everyday examples, which could also apply to crossborder health, crossborder employment and mobility. so yes, after the covid-19 crisis, as activity resumes and there are a multitude of projects in these cross-border regions, we really need such a mechanism and we are waiting for a new initiative and alternatives from the council.
mr. chairman, please! thanks to the union, we don't feel we have internal borders. we're going through no border controls, phones pick up roaming right away at no cost. in practice, we have no physical or virtual borders. but it doesn't work that way for everyone: there are people who cross the border every day to work cross-border workers. we had many discussions during the pandemic about how to improve their situation, but again, this purely social, civic issue became a highly political issue. the european commission has presented parliament with a good proposal for a regulation, which has been accepted by the members. but the council of the european union has already said, "no, we're not going to do that". i would like to know whether the council, the members of the governments, have stopped working on the project because they are afraid of a federal, strong, united and equal european union for all? which countries represented in the project working group decided to terminate the project? was it a unanimous decision? crossborder workers must be helped, because they are the symbol of the success of a united europe!
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! first of all, i would like to express my strong opposition to being addressed in this house as 'comrade' or 'comrade', as was done in the case of a representative of the far left. i represent this part of europe and this is a country whose citizens lost their lives at the hands of their comrades during and after the second world war; these were hundreds of millions of people from central and eastern europe. perhaps for my colleague this phrase does not have the same pejorative meaning as for me or for the people of central and eastern european countries, but i assure you that "comrades" and "comrades" carry with them the same negative emotional charge as "heil hitler". ladies and gentlemen! the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new asylum management system. the regulation establishing the new agency should therefore not be processed outside the migration and asylum pact, as it does not meet the expectations of the member states. the compromise to delay the entry into force of the monitoring mechanism, which could lead to the agency intervening in the territory of a member state without its consent, is unsatisfactory, as it constitutes an interference with the competences of the member states in its current form.
mr president, the creation of a fully-fledged agency for asylum will be a step in the right direction, provided that it focuses on the role of controlling member states abuses of human rights against asylum seekers and immigrants. the new tools to improve asylum procedures will do very little to protect fundamental rights as long as the focus of the immigration policy of the union is on securing external borders. this focus on external borders has led to turning a blind eye to gross violations of international law by member states, including pushbacks at borders, often through violent means, and to collaboration with autocratic regimes that use refugee flows as their tool to blackmail the eu. if we are serious about protecting the rule of law, we should start by shifting the focus of immigration policy towards safeguarding fundamental rights and refugee protection, while at the same time protecting local communities that directly suffer the stress of new arrivals. anything else just makes us an accessory to human rights violations and to the rise of xenophobia.
mr. chairman, please! mr brudziński would prefer the title "hello uncle". but to the heart. since the beginning of the 20th century, some people from my region, from silesia, have been fleeing and others have sought refuge in it. after world war ii, it was the same: many left for germany, while others from eastern poland came to us. that's why we silesian people understand the drama of running away, leaving our family, our surroundings, leaving home. today, faced with serious migration and humanitarian challenges, including the use of refugees as weapons against the union by the lukashenka regime, our european response must be effective, based on solidarity and community solutions. the establishment of a european union agency for asylum, with additional resources and powers, is a proposal in this spirit. the project envisages that the enhanced agency will be an effective tool for member states to support them in crisis situations and will be involved in monitoring the respect for fundamental rights and guarantees of child protection in different parts of the eu. i am convinced that only together can we face the migration challenge and manage it with respect for human rights. and although the ruling party in poland today is not interested in such cooperation and has ignored european solutions in this area, i want to assure you that many people in my country want to see effective and humanitarian action. and i believe that together, we can reform the common european asylum system, because in a few years, we're going to have a huge climate migration. this is gonna be a real challenge.
mr. chairman, please! it's been half a century since the military regime, after a coup, established burma's road to socialism. and so burma, now officially myanmar, once a thriving land of golden pagodas, became a land of anarchy and violence. while the last decade has been marked by democratization, this was overturned in february this year by a military coup known as "monday of the generals". according to a un report, since taking power, the military junta has killed more than 1,100 people, detained more than 8,000, and forcibly displaced more than 230,000. three and a half million burmese are at risk of starvation, 60% of hospitals are out of service because the military has arrested most of the doctors, worsening an already dire humanitarian situation. in recent weeks, dozens of villages have been burned by the military, who have become increasingly cruel to the civilian population. persecution of ethnic and religious groups increased. despite the ban on assemblies, mass protests and acts of civil disobedience have been launched in many cities. in september, the underground government of national unity called for an uprising against the regime. the threat of further escalation of the civil war. we can't just sit back and do nothing.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the ongoing civil war in myanmar has caused massive displacement, instability and serious accusations of genocide against the muslim minority. less well known is the fate of christians, who make up 7% of the population, of which buddhists are of course the majority. priests are arrested, churches are destroyed, and parishes are harassed. many church buildings are used as shelters for people displaced by the conflict. the situation of religious minorities in myanmar should be a matter of conscience for the european commission. why can't we expect a european union special envoy for religious freedom? this post has in fact been vacant since the end of the mandate of mr jan figel. it is shameful that the european union, whose foundations are closely linked to christianity, cannot effectively and vigorously defend religious freedom. how much longer is the commission going to wait?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, a couple of years ago, i watched a documentary, it’s called ‘trapped’, and actually, i recommend you watch it too. it’s about the situation of access to abortion in the us, and this was from before these kind of laws were passed. and there is one scene that i will never forget, it is a healthcare worker describing the situation, when a woman is calling the abortion clinic that she’s working in. and this woman says: i’m pregnant. nobody can know. i cannot come to the clinic right now, it’s too far away. i don’t have enough money, but i can tell you what i have in my kitchen cabinet. and then can you help me to perform an abortion over the phone? this situation is something that we will see happen again if we do not make sure that there is access to abortion across the board. this law in texas, and none of the crazy laws that have been passed over the last years, will actually prevent abortions from happening; what these laws prevent from happening are safe and legal abortion. and this is why we have to make clear that laws like this are called what they are: they are barbaric, and they are putting women in exactly these situations. and some of you might say, well, ok, this is happening far away, this is happening in the us, they don’t have their religious fundamentalists under control. well, look at the situation in europe. look at what has happened over the last years. we have exactly the same problems here. so, we need to have global solidarity in defence of women’s rights, in defence of sexual and reproductive rights – our bodies, our rights – everywhere in the world.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking today not only as a member of the european parliament but also as a woman and a mother who is due to give birth in a few days. and i want to show you the beauty of a life that already has its place in this world. listening to them, i wonder: why are you afraid of life? why are you afraid of a baby? who can't fall in love with the miracle of a tiny life developing on its own? they deny a reality that transcends us. inside our body is a complete life, already from its beginning, with all its dignity and rights, with infinite value always, regardless of the circumstances, however complicated they may be. let's support the women. the only birth that really hurts and hurts beyond measure is the one that doesn't reach its fullness by its own choice. we must all fulfill the mission of protecting each new life and let its tenderness fill us with hope. there are many of us who want this to happen and we are working for it, in texas, in the european parliament and all over the world. love and beauty will save the world.
madam president, first i would like to thank everyone who worked on this resolution and all those brave women and men, in the us and beyond, for being loud and for calling the texan misogynists out. they are de facto banning safe abortions, a crucial aspect of women’s health and safety, and this violates human rights, especially since there are no exceptions for rape, incest or fatal foetal health conditions. we know that laws like these not only reduce safe abortions, but cause a rise in women’s death rates. we know that women on lower incomes and black women will be especially affected by this. on top of that, we know now how unimportant a woman’s bodily autonomy is in texas. rapists are punished less for their crime than women for having an abortion, and this is outrageous. i call on the texan government to withdraw this law and ask for all of your support. we are standing in solidarity with all women.
madam president, commissioner, for those members who do not understand why we are debating this today, i would point out that the substance of the matter is human rights. human rights that are universal. and women's rights are universal rights. the right of women to decide about their lives, to decide about their motherhood, to decide about their safety and their own bodies is a universal human right. what we're discussing today is bigger than what's happening in texas. it's an attempt to impose restrictive abortion laws around the world. in a world -- i want to remind you -- where for the first time in 20 years, more authoritarian governments rule than democracies. and these governments - this growing authoritarianism - question human rights and their universality, question international law and take women's rights hostage. so today we celebrate that in a democracy a federal judge has suspended the application of a law that he considers aggressive and unprecedented in the united states to deprive its citizens of a significant constitutional right enshrined in the constitution. but ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about democracy, because to defend women's rights there must be democratic systems, separation of powers, independent judges, as has happened in the united states. but what happens when these guarantees are not there? that is why this message must also be clear to the european countries which are trying to reduce the right to sexual freedom and self-determination of women.
madam president, with this resolution, the european parliament wants to join the condemnations across the us on the adoption of the sb8 law by the texas legislator. this law constitutes a strong attack on women’s freedom and sexual and reproductive health and rights, which are fundamental human rights, and violates us women’s constitutional rights by de facto totally banning abortion with no exemption. this law would also disproportionately affect the most vulnerable groups of women and will not reduce the need for abortions, but result in women having to seek clandestine abortions or to carry their pregnancy to term against their will. what’s worse, this law empowers and gives monetary incentives to any private citizen to sue anyone who may have helped women obtain an abortion, allowing for individual enforcement of abortion bans that creates a climate of fear and intimidation. the sb8 law is one of the strictest abortion measures in the us, and it could have a trigger effect on other us states attempting to pass abortion bans across the country. for all these reasons, we call on the government of the state of texas to repeal the law, to ensure safe, legal, free and quality abortion services in texas, and to make these services easily accessible to all women and girls. promoting sexual rights is one of the five pillars of the eu gender action plan. therefore, the eu and its member states should make sure that women’s rights are respected and promoted in their relations with other countries and also with the united states.
madam president! well, i want to tell you that it's amazing what's going on in this room today. i mean, you're holding a debate to condemn texas in the united states, which has been defending life since the heartbeat of a child. and you say that removing this child is a human right, a right to kill. and you know that the concept of human rights in general is the concept that every life has rights? every life has dignity, every man has dignity, inalienable dignity. read it, see what it is, what are the real human rights. and this inalienable dignity also applies to the weak, the disabled, but also to those who are perfectly healthy, who are unable to defend themselves today against your aggression. yet you choose pleasure over the dignity of every life. instead of responsibility, you choose to do whatever you want. only the world you create, where human dignity is not universal, will sooner or later exclude you as well. because disability can happen to any of you in this room today. what's the matter? and then all you're left with is a proposal for euthanasia. is that the world you want? think about it.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 19 october 2021. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the 'farm to fork' strategy resolution contains a number of provisions which will have a negative impact on the functioning of the agri-food sector, because, firstly, there is no reliable assessment of the impact of this document on the sector. such an assessment should have been made before the publication of the communication. in its resolution, parliament does not pay sufficient attention to this negligence on the part of the commission. a sound impact assessment of an initiative with such significant economic and environmental impacts is necessary. secondly, i believe that the targets set by the strategy for reducing the use of pesticides (by 50% by 2030) are too ambitious and pose a serious risk to producers of agricultural and horticultural raw materials, with consequent consequences for consumers. moreover, the jrc analysis shows that the implementation of the objectives of the strategy in question will result in a decrease in the volume of agricultural production. in addition, agricultural production may be exported outside the eu because of our stringent environmental requirements, and the resolution does not address the need to ensure that food suppliers outside the eu are prepared for similar changes in production standards. without such adjustments or appropriate adjustments to eu trade policy, eu products will be partly replaced by imports and the global environmental effects will be minimal or even negative (the 'emission leakage effect'). i cannot support this resolution because it will lead to the weakening of the position of european farmers.
the ppe group and the unattached members informed the president of the decisions on changes in the composition of parliamentary committees. these decisions will be recorded in the minutes of today's meeting and will come into force on the date of this announcement.
the next item is the report by lina gálvez muñoz, drawn up on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on employment and social policy in the euro area in 2021 (2021/2062 (ini)) (a9-0274/2021).
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! the covid-19 pandemic has changed the world as we know it. we're all feeling these changes, and we're trying to figure out the best way to make sure that everyone is comfortable with this new reality. i believe we all want a union of values and a safe society where everyone can fulfil their potential. it is essential that no one feels left behind in the context of the pandemic and that everyone has the feeling and the conviction that the solutions proposed are also for them. we support the economy to provide jobs, growth, security for our citizens. i believe that to build a dynamic economy with a robust and inclusive labour market, we must first of all intensify activation activities and equip people with the skills to navigate the labour market transformed by the dual transformation. i support all the activities that serve that purpose. special attention should be paid to the adaptation of women, people over 45, disabled people and excluded people to the new labour market. i also draw attention to what the energy transition will bring, to remember that in the regions - in the case of poland, these are mining regions - there are people living and working who will also need support to adapt to the new reality.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the report focuses on macroeconomic governance after the pandemic crisis and was intended to point to a new way of shaping economic and social policy. despite some good ideas, such as strengthening social protection for mobile workers and ensuring high standards of occupational safety, the report goes too far. in rebuilding the european economy, we should base ourselves on measurable economic indicators and the principles of social justice, without ideologising and thus weakening any of the themes. many proposals are not in our position to support: another industrial strategy with a new social dimension or gender mainstreaming in national reconstruction plans. the report cannot be a wish-fulfillment concert, it must respond to an immediate challenge, and that challenge is the galloping prices of energy, gas and the threat of energy poverty. we need to know how to handle this.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 19 october 2021.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr nikolaj villumsen on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs on the protection of workers from the dangers of asbestos (2019/2182 ((inl)) (a9-0275/2021).
president. - as the author is not present, question no 6 will be answered in writing.1 in flanders, for example, nine out of ten houses contain asbestos. so there is a good chance that this is also true in your home. throughout europe, millions of tonnes of asbestos are in our homes, in our schools, in our public housing. the wave of renovation is the opportunity to remove all asbestos and to make europe asbestos-free. financial support is needed, because who can throw away 6,000 euros to remove an asbestos pipe? we must now do more to protect the workers who remove asbestos, because every year 80 000 people still die of cancer from exposure to asbestos at work. commissioner, we cannot repeat the mistakes of the past. europe must now protect everyone from asbestos.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, rapporteur, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, asbestos is responsible for 100 000 to 150 000 deaths worldwide every year and is the number one cause of occupational cancers. although my country, france, has banned its use for more than 25 years and the european union for 15 years, this tragedy is far from over. firstly, because the building was not properly numbered. secondly, because medical research into mesothelioma and other asbestos-related cancers has stalled in most eu countries. so yes, our states must put prevention at the heart of their health problems and we could start by not underestimating, as was said earlier, the risk of reintroduction of asbestos into the european union by imports from emerging countries which still use this material. to avoid this, we should already be giving the states the means to control and protect our borders by stopping the waste of manpower and customs resources. this would add coherence to the legitimate ambitions of this house to combat this deadly scourge. finally, i would like to make one final comment on this report, in which i was called to account for the commission's interference in the functioning of our assembly, since it seems that the latter has attempted to encroach on the prerogative of co-legislating conferred on parliament by the treaties. because, commissioner, our house is not just a chamber for recording the commission's wishes.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! despite the general european ban on asbestos, it is still present in our buildings and continues to pose a threat to public health. many citizens and workers in the european union, especially those in the construction sector, are exposed to the tragic consequences of exposure to asbestos, particularly interstitial lung cancer and lung cancer. asbestos is one of the main carcinogens in the workplace and, because of its long incubation period, it is very difficult to combat. we must therefore do everything we can to combat asbestos. that is why i am pleased to accept the report by mr villumsen. this report is a step in the right direction and sets out the right initiatives to improve disease diagnosis, information exchange, higher standards and better protection of workers. the solutions presented are firm but also realistic. however, we must remember to establish appropriate transitional periods, which will be necessary to meet the new norms and standards. thank you very much for your work.
mr. president, grazie mille, asbestos is one of the leading causes of occupational cancer. although we have banned all use of asbestos since 2005, it is the most dangerous substance to inhale. and that's always a problem with disassembly, demolition, service or maintenance. setting minimum levels of asbestos in buildings will protect up to 90,000 workers a year, and that's not a small number. we protect workers who work on construction, demolition, renovation of buildings, but also firefighters and landlords and building owners. there is no legislation like it in any country in the world. in the european union, we want to systematically protect the health of the people who live here. we want to make sure they have better working conditions. that is why setting limits on asbestos is a logical step and we want to set this legislation as a european parliament and as a challenge to the member states and to the commission. we think we live in the 21st century, and if, my friends, in the 21st century, something as harmful as asbestos, if a substance takes away tens of thousands of fathers and mothers from their families every year, something needs to be done about it.
mr president, exposure to asbestos is the number one cause of work-related cancers in europe. although asbestos is no longer produced or used in europe, the harmful substance is still present in many buildings. it is therefore putting millions of workers at risk. with the european green deal and the renovation wave, we're going to green millions of buildings, and that's good news. but we must avoid this wave of renovation endangering the health and lives of a whole generation of workers. that is why we need strict rules to better protect workers, because there is no safe level of asbestos. the limit value for exposure to asbestos must be reduced substantially. the commission can now prove that it is committed to 'vision zero' in the field of work-related deaths. no job is worth dying for.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate confirms that asbestos, despite its prohibition, is still a serious problem. unfortunately, it was said, many citizens still die and many more are affected by diseases resulting from exposure to asbestos, many of which are not even recognized as occupational diseases and therefore do not entitle the victims and their families to any compensation. i thank rapporteur villumsen and all the colleagues who have worked on this report, which makes it possible to update european legislation, especially, as has been said, in the light of the measures with which europe is promoting the renovation and regeneration of the building stock, which is why it is necessary to introduce the obligation to check for the presence of asbestos and subsequently remove it before any work is started, as well as a mandatory certification attesting to the absence or regularity of asbestos before a sale or a lease for buildings built before 2005. in the light of the new measures which the commission will be presenting, i should like to draw attention to a few points. first of all, it is necessary to identify among the occupational diseases all those which are objectively and scientifically linked to exposure to asbestos. if we really want to remove asbestos, we must reduce bureaucracy and provide financial support for property owners, and adequate training for technicians and workers. finally, non-invasive techniques should be encouraged so that the risk factor is reduced completely even at the screening stage. let us remember that investing in screening, but above all in the removal and purification of asbestos, means investing in the health of our citizens.
mr president, i would like to thank you. up to 35 million buildings in the eu will need to be renovated by 2035. there's going to be a wave of green renovations that will lead to huge energy savings. but if we're not careful, the renovations will also bring a wave of cancer. a wave that will cost thousands of europeans their lives because the buildings contain asbestos, which is a deadly substance. we have a limit today, yes, but it is not high enough. we have a screening effort, it's just too bad. we have legislation, yes, but we lack enforcement. that means there's still some life-threatening asbestos dust. it gives workers cancer that takes their lives. this is unacceptable. we need to lower the threshold. we need to improve the screening of buildings before renovations begin and we need to ensure that there is more control. it's not right for people to put their lives on the line to take care of their jobs. asbestos has already cost many lives. let's make sure this ends now, before the next generation loses their lives.
mr. chairman, please! although the production and placing on the market of asbestos has been banned in the union since 2005, the existing surveillance tools do not guarantee that products containing asbestos do not enter the european market. it is also still present in many of the buildings around us, posing a serious health threat to millions of european citizens. nearly 50 000 people die every year in the union from this disease. in the interests of the safety and lives of citizens, we call on the commission to take decisive legislative action, as at present only some member states have adequate plans to remove existing asbestos stocks. the european union should be more active in encouraging member states to take action by offering them real support and assistance in detecting and removing asbestos. it should also lay down measures to protect workers and consumers from the harmful effects of that substance. the commission's initiative is both possible and desirable, especially since the issue of safe asbestos removal can now be co-financed by european funds under the green deal and the reconstruction fund.
mr. chairman, please! in the wake of covid-19, the governments of the union's member states have taken a number of decisions that have triggered a crisis in many areas of social and economic life. they have also had a major impact on cultural activities in a broad sense and on the situation of artists and cultural workers. the closure of cultural institutions, the cancellation of cultural events and artistic routes, the closure of educational institutions, the suspension of many artistic cooperation projects and, finally, the closure of national borders have had the greatest impact on the situation of artists. and yet, the lives of those who practice the arts are characterized by a lack of stability and a permanent basis for existence. the covid crisis has changed the professional activity of artists. many of them remained or are still without adequate remuneration or without remuneration at all. we should therefore ensure that the budget for culture is increased, that access to funding for cultural projects is increased and that administrative burdens are reduced. the union's competence in this area is limited, but as far as possible within the legal framework, let us promote culture. the artistic profession deserves special treatment and protection.
in writing. – the covid-19 crisis heavily disrupted the cultural and creative sectors and brought some of them to a complete halt for an extended period of time. this situation exacerbated the atypical and all too often precarious working conditions of artists and cultural workers. creative industry associations have called, since the beginning of this crisis in the eu and its member states, for urgent financial support in order to withstand the crisis and, most importantly, so they can recover in the post-crisis period. further steps need to be taken to protect the european film and audiovisual sector, media, publishers, the music industry or content creators in different areas. we call on the member states to ensure full access to social protection for artists and cultural workers, regardless of their employment status, and ask the commission to propose a european status of the artist setting out a common framework for working conditions and minimum standards common to all eu. creative and cultural industries account for almost 10% of romania’s gdp with over 400 thousand employees. it is of the upmost importance to protect the most vulnerable sectors of our society and economy so that we can recover from this time of crisis.
the agenda includes a brief presentation of the report by dace melbārde, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the european media in the digital decade: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all, dear mrs melbārde, i warmly welcome your report. i am pleased that parliament and the commission are working together to support the media and audiovisual sector, which are fundamental to our democracies and our cultural diversity, and which we talked a lot about in the previous debate. there are many points of convergence between this report and the commission's approach, as detailed in our action plans for european democracy, as well as for the media and audiovisual. the scale of your report shows how many and complex the challenges in the audiovisual and media field are today. in the face of these challenges, our strategy is based on three pillars: regulation to protect and guide, funding to strengthen and develop, and transformation and innovation to conquer and shine. regarding regulation, our strategy is to establish rules of the game adapted to the digital age. i would like to highlight three initiatives aimed at ensuring fair competition. the audiovisual media services directive places obligations on platforms to set quotas for the exhibition of works and also allows for financial obligations to be imposed on them. the new copyright rules encourage creativity and transparency in the digital space, while protecting freedom of expression. it is particularly important that member states transpose and apply this new regulatory framework. similarly, with our proposals on digital services and the digital markets regulation (the dsa and dma), europe has taken the initiative to clarify the responsibilities of platforms. i should also mention a new regulatory project aimed at protecting media pluralism and freedom: as announced here by the president of the commission, we are preparing a draft media freedom law, the media freedom act, which will be proposed next year. on the financial side of our strategy, the commission has set out its vision in a plan for the recovery and transformation of the media and audiovisual sectors. in the context of the covid-19 crisis, which has hit some media so hard, this plan brings together the various tools at our disposal. an unprecedented effort has been provided with the next generation eu recovery plan, whether through national recovery plans or through framework programmes from the european budget. several member states have included the audiovisual sector as a priority in their recovery plan. on the other hand, the commission has made significant progress in preparing and implementing the concrete actions provided for in the action plan. first, we have published an interactive tool online to help businesses participate in the various european programmes to support the audiovisual and media sectors under the new budgetary framework. as for the audiovisual sector, we are launching media invest, an equity investment platform. the objective is to mobilise investments of eur 400 million over a seven-year period, thus making a significant contribution to filling the equity financing gap of independent producers and distributors. for the first time, thanks to the strong support of the parliament, our creative europe programme is funding projects related to media pluralism. this is important, but as the report underlines, more effort is needed. this is why we are also developing alternative and sustainable sources of funding for the news media, including through a pilot project, under the investeu programme, to co-invest with foundations and other private partners. we pay special attention to local media. we strongly agree on the need to strengthen support for media education. the commission will step up its efforts, for example by supporting national media education campaigns, in cooperation with the european observatory on digital media. finally, innovation in the media is essential. this is why we are mobilising the horizon europe and digital europe programmes. we're going to launch a data space that allows collaboration and sharing of audience or content data and metadata. ownership, control and exploitation of data are key for media creators and companies. the commission will therefore launch a dialogue with the audiovisual industry in the coming weeks to explore possible actions to improve access to and availability of audiovisual content in the european union. if we want to be stronger, we must think europe, think at the level of the continent and of a single market for creativity, but also for the protection of the media, because without a free media, democracy is in danger.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 19 october 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. first of all, i would like to thank mrs dacia melbjerd for a great report, it is very important to analyse the situation in the media and to put concrete solutions on the table right now the rapporteur has done an excellent job of this. unfortunately, the media ecosystem was already fragile before the pandemic. the last decade has seen a significant deterioration in the situation of media freedom audiences have shifted even more rapidly to online platforms. the money flows mainly to global non-european players, who do not properly feed back into the european media ecosystem. at the same time, the covid-19 crisis has reinforced the importance of quality journalism; today, the work of professional and operational journalists in the context of a pandemic comes at the cost of health and life. it is therefore important to provide for significantly increased financial support for the media at the level of the european union and the member states. member states should also provide support from national recovery plans and implement tax policies favourable to the media. at the same time, legislation needs to provide for much greater openness in the operation of algorithmic systems and advertising rules of online platforms. i would also like to emphasise that media operating in smaller markets, including smaller countries, local, regional, cultural and other niche media, face additional challenges - here market principles simply cannot ensure an economically viable media business. at the same time, the baltic states also face high geopolitical risks from malicious disinformation coordinated by third countries. this report and its recommendations are therefore of particular importance to us.
the agenda includes the brief presentation of the report by corina crețu, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the effectiveness with which member states have used eu funds through the solidarity fund in the event of natural disasters (2020/2127 ((ini)) (a9-0273/2021).
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union solidarity fund is, in fact, living proof that the european union is already a very real presence in the lives of all its citizens. whether it is the earthquakes in italy, the fires in greece and portugal or the floods in romania, this fund has shown that solidarity between european countries is essential, especially in times of crisis. to get the big picture, a few concrete figures would be helpful: the european solidarity fund has mobilised over eur 6,5 billion for 96 natural disaster situations in 23 member states and one acceding country between 2002 and 2020. the largest number of claims was for flood damage, at around 60%, followed by earthquakes, but unfortunately the solidarity fund was not conceived at the time of its launch as an emergency instrument and therefore over time more and more member states have asked for the procedures to be carried out much faster. that is why in this report, i called for the fund to become more flexible and more effective in delivering financial assistance to states affected by natural disasters in a timely manner. the procedures for obtaining financial support need to be simplified, the time taken to allocate funds reduced, and the use of funds more rigorously controlled. at this hour, the time elapsed from a disaster to the payment of the respective sums is about one year. that is why i think, ladies and gentlemen, that in view of the crisis we are going through, it is welcome that this fund has been extended to emergency situations in countries facing health crises. the introduction of covid-related expenditure has led to a doubling of solidarity fund expenditure, which in july this year alone was estimated at over eur 3 billion. so we always have to think about simplification, but also about control. let us not forget, for example, that in emergency situations such as these, public procurement is a vulnerable area to fraud, corruption and irregularities, which is why the report also stresses the need to make control systems more efficient. in view of all the above, we believe that the european commission should propose more effective proactive solutions, in particular by continuing its work towards simplified use of the solidarity fund. in order to ensure that the solidarity fund achieves the purpose for which it was designed from the outset, it is necessary, in our opinion, to revise it. i would like to take this opportunity to express my deepest sympathy to all european citizens and their families who have been affected by natural disasters or the health crisis we are currently experiencing.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank parliament and the rapporteur, ms crețu, for the report and for the appreciation of the eu solidarity fund as an important instrument of the eu. solidarity is a core value upon which the union is built. the eu solidarity fund was created to provide eu solidarity by contributing to post-disaster relief in member states and accession countries confronted with devastating natural disasters and major public health emergencies. since its creation, the fund has mobilised close to eur 7 billion for interventions in a hundred disaster events in 24 countries. a recent evaluation of the eu solidarity fund confirmed the effectiveness of the fund and the synergies between the eu solidarity fund and other eu policy instruments for disaster risk management. it also concluded that the fund brings clear eu added value and demonstrates eu solidarity in action. however, we cannot ignore that climate change is causing more frequent and intense weather and climate-extreme disasters in europe and around the world. the past two years have provided a sad truth. heatwaves, drought, forest fires, floods, earthquakes, are breaking records every year in both rate and intensity, with a disastrous impact on human lives, the economy and on ecosystems. between 2002 and 2019, the fund was mobilised for 91 interventions. in comparison, in 2020 alone the commission received 31 new fund applications. for the first time ever, the fund was mobilised not only following natural disasters, but also in response to the covid-19 public health emergency. of these, 19 members states and three enlargement candidates will receive fund assistance by the end of 2021 to respond to the covid-19 public health emergency. and this year, the commission has so far received eight eu solidarity fund (eusf) applications for support to recover from natural disasters. we should also be concerned about the increasing intensity and impact of the disasters. last year, croatia received eusf assistance of over 680 million, the second highest amount ever paid by the fund for emergency and recovery operations after a natural disaster. this year the application from germany for the devastating floods in july reported the biggest total direct damage ever presented in the history of the fund – eur 29.2 billion. this is the damage suffered by germany alone. belgium, the netherlands, austria and luxembourg also submitted applications following this summer’s natural disasters. the commission has started the assessment of these applications in order to have a comprehensive overview of the needs. based on this assessment, the commission will consider all possible options within our instruments to allow the eusf to continue to deliver on eu solidarity to member states. the increasing number and scale of natural disasters in the last two years, as well as the need to provide assistance in relation to the covid-19 public health emergency, has put a severe strain on the resources set aside for the fund, as agreed by the legislators in the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework (mff). moreover, contrary to the commission’s mmf proposal to restore the eusf envelope of eur 1 billion, the instrument was integrated into the new solidarity and emergency aid reserve, with the total amount of eur 1.2 billion shared with the emergency aid reserve. mobilisation of the resources is today more challenging as it also covers other eu internal and external emergencies, while calls are likely to grow, as has been painfully illustrated this summer. the eu cannot be asked to choose between competing needs for relief and recovery at home or abroad. we must be in a position to provide support to both member states and those in need elsewhere. in any case, the commission remains determined to support member states to speed up assessment and application procedures and deliver on eu solidarity with the eusf.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 19 october 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. analysis of the data provided by the commission on disbursements from the fund shows that the fund pays out in a geographical key. romania, which is particularly vulnerable to seasonal flooding, has submitted 8 aid applications since 2005. the cumulative value of its losses to date was estimated at eur 4 billion, and the fund paid it approximately eur 130 million in compensation. france has benefited from the fund seven times since 2002. its losses were estimated at around eur 9 billion, despite only one natural disaster being of national scope, i.e. affecting more than one region. in romania, 4 disasters were classified as nationwide, france received about 120 million more than romania. austria applied for aid in 2002 following the floods, the losses were estimated at around eur 3 billion, and the commission paid it eur 134 million in compensation. eight years later, poland, with similar flooding and damage, as the damage was also estimated at 3 billion euros, received 29 million less than austria. the data above show that the commission favours the countries of the old union, inter alia by overstating the amount of the losses, which consequently leads to higher compensation payments. this practice needs to change if the fund is to be truly solidarity-based.
the sitting was adjourned and will resume at 9 a.m. tomorrow, tuesday 19 october, with the debate on the council and commission statements - the crisis of the rule of law in poland and the rule of law in the eu. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
good day to you all. i call the court to order. we shall now move on to the first item on the agenda: council and commission statements on the crisis of the rule of law in poland and the primacy of european union law (2021/2935 (rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for organising this debate. respect for the rule of law is critical to guarantee the proper functioning of the union. the european union is a union of law, and the primacy of eu law is the foundation of it. in eu architecture, primacy of eu law is the way to guarantee the equality of member states before the treaties and to ensure that all union citizens enjoy the same rights. without primacy, the application of eu law would vary from one member state to another. this would destroy the level playing field in the single market. it is also a precondition for daily interaction and for smoothly resolving disputes. it is, ultimately, the basis for our living together in a common european home. the presidency is committed to bringing forward exchanges in a positive and constructive atmosphere on rule of law and related issues. today, at the general affairs council, in the framework of the annual rule of law dialogue, ministers will be discussing developments in the area of rule of law in a general horizontal debate. the commission’s 2021 rule of law report fits into this exercise, and the primacy of eu law is among the topics covered in the report. the general affairs council will discuss again rule of law issues at its session on 23 november. a country–specific discussion will cover developments in five main member states, namely: croatia, cyprus, italy, latvia and lithuania. the council also remains seized of the article 7 teu procedure. the presidency is committed to advancing these proceedings in a council in december. in addition, the council continues to closely monitor the recent rule of law developments in poland. we aspire for a constructive dialogue between the commission and poland, which would lead towards converging positions. we will also continue this discussion within the council. i look forward to your intervention today, and to hearing prime minister morawiecki on how poland sees the way forward.
president of the commission. – mr president, almost 40 years ago, in december 1981, the communist regime in poland imposed martial law. many members of solidarność, the independent trade union, and of other groups were put in jail, simply because they stood up for their rights. the people of poland wanted democracy, like millions of other europeans from budapest to tallinn to east berlin. they wanted the freedom to choose their government, they wanted free speech and free media, they wanted an end to corruption, and they wanted independent courts to protect their rights. the people of central and eastern europe wanted to join the european family of free people, a strong community of values and democracy. because that is what europe is about and that is what europe stands for. the recent ruling of the polish constitutional court puts much of this into question. we have been concerned about the independence of the judiciary for some time. judges have seen their immunity being lifted and have been driven out of office without justification, and this threatens judicial independence, which is a basic pillar of the rule of law. we have taken a number of measures. we continue to have a regular dialogue. but unfortunately the situation has worsened. and this is not only the commission’s opinion, this is what has been confirmed by the european court of justice and the european court of human rights. and now this has culminated in the most recent ruling of the polish constitutional court. the european commission is, at the moment, carefully assessing this judgment, but i can already tell you today that i am deeply concerned. this ruling calls into question the foundations of the european union. it is a direct challenge to the unity of the european legal order. only a common legal order provides equal rights, legal certainty, mutual trust between member states and, therefore, common policies. this is the first time ever that the court of a member state finds that the eu treaties are incompatible with the national constitution. this has serious consequences for the polish people because the ruling has a direct impact on the protection of the judiciary. the ruling undermines the protection of the judicial independence, as guaranteed by article 19 of the treaty and as interpreted by the european court of justice. without independent courts, people have less protection and consequently their rights are at stake. polish people must be able to rely on fair and equal treatment in the judicial system, just like any other european citizen. in our union, we all enjoy the same rights and this basic principle fundamentally impacts people’s lives because, if european law is applied differently in grenoble or göttingen or gdańsk, eu citizens would not be able to rely on the same rights everywhere. when joining the european union, the polish people put their trust in the european union. they expected the european union to defend their rights, and rightly so. the commission is the guardian of the treaty. it is my commission’s duty to protect the rights of eu citizens wherever they live in our union. the rule of law is the glue that binds our union together. it is the foundation of our unity. it is essential for the protection of the values on which our union is founded: democracy, freedom, equality and respect for human rights. this is what all 27 member states have signed up to as part of this union, as sovereign countries and free people. we cannot – and will not – allow our common values to be put at risk. the commission will act, and the options are all known. the first option are infringements, where we legally challenge the judgment of the polish constitutional court. another option is the conditionality mechanism and other financial tools. the polish government has to explain to us how it intends to protect european money, given this ruling of their constitutional court because, in the coming years, we will be investing eur 2 100 billion with the multiannual budget and the nextgenerationeu recovery programme. this is european taxpayers’ money and, if our union is investing more than ever to advance our collective recovery, we must protect the union’s budget against breaches of the rule of law. the third option is the article 7 procedure. this is the powerful tool in the treaty, and we must come back to it because, let me remind you, the polish constitutional court that today has cast doubts on the validity of our treaty is the same court that, under article 7, we consider not to be independent and legitimate. this, in many ways, comes full circle. i deeply regret that we find ourselves in this situation. i have always been a proponent of dialogue and i will always be. this is a situation that can and must be resolved. we want a strong poland in a united europe. we want poland to be at the heart of our debates in building a common future. poland has a stake in europe. together, we can build a europe that is strong and confident in a world where other big powers become more and more assertive. europe has benefited from poland’s unique experience so much. without the people of poland, our european journey would have been very different. when karol wojtyła, as pope john paul ii, went to his homeland, he changed european history forever. when lech wałęsa, with a scattered group of trade unionists, overcame a mighty army, we saw the beginning of the fall of the iron curtain. and when president lech kaczyński ratified the lisbon treaty, together with the charter of fundamental rights, he reaffirmed poland’s commitment to our values. polish people have played a fundamental role in making our union whole, in enabling their homeland to thrive as a vital part of our union, and they will always be. polsko, jesteś i zawsze będziesz w sercu europy! niech żyje polska, niech żyje europa! poland, you are, and you will always be, at the heart of europe. long live poland and long live europe!
prime minister of poland. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. madam president! ladies and gentlemen of the house! i stand before you today in parliament to develop our position on a number of fundamental issues which i consider to be fundamental to the future of the european union. and not just for the future of poland, but for the future of our union as a whole. first, i'll talk about the crises that europe faces today and that we need to address. second, i'm going to talk about standards and rules that should be the same for everyone, and all too often are not. thirdly, i will give my view on the principle that no public authority should take action for which there is no legal basis. the fourth point of my speech will be about the polish constitutional tribunal judgment and what this judgment and other similar judgments mean for the union, as well as the importance of diversity and mutual respect. and then, in the fifth, i'm going to present our view of constitutional pluralism. i will then point out the huge risks to society as a whole that arise from the application of the judgment of the court of justice of the european union, which are already materializing in poland. and finally, in the end, i'm going to summarize all of the conclusions and look, i think, with hope into the future. i'm going to start with the fundamental issues, the challenges that are crucial to our common future. the high chamber, social inequalities, inflation, rising living costs that affect all europeans, external threats, rising public debt, illegal immigration and the energy crisis, all add to the climate challenge, and all translate into social unrest and a long list of powerful problems. the debt crisis has raised the question for the first time since the war whether we can provide a better life for future generations. the situation around our borders is becoming more and more unstable: in the south, the rebellion of millions of people has turned the mediterranean basin into a tragic place. in the east we are faced with the aggressive policy of russia, which is even going to war to block the choice of the european path among the countries of our neighbourhood. today, we are on the verge of a major gas and energy crisis. the rapidly rising prices, caused by deliberate actions by russian companies among others, are already forcing many european companies to choose between reducing production or passing costs on to consumers. the scale of this crisis could shake europe in the coming weeks. many businesses could go bankrupt, and millions of households, tens of millions of people could be pushed into poverty and scarcity by the gas crisis through uncontrolled cost increases across europe. there's also the risk of dominoes. one crisis can cascade into another. i say "we" every time, because none of these things are solvable by ourselves. not all of these problems have affected my country as dramatically as they have in other countries of the union. but that doesn't change the fact that i consider all of these problems to be our problems. i'd like to say a few words about poland's contribution to our joint project. european integration is a civilization and a strategic choice for us. we want to make europe strong again, ambitious and courageous. so we're not just looking at the short-term benefits, but also what we can give europe. poland benefits from integration primarily through trade in the common market. technology transfers and direct transfers are also very important, but poland did not enter the union empty-handed. the process of economic integration has expanded the possibilities for companies in my country, but it has also opened up huge opportunities for german, french and dutch companies. businesses in these countries have benefited enormously from the enlargement of the union. just count the outflow, the huge outflow of dividends, interest earnings and other financial instruments. from the countries of central europe, the less wealthy ones to the countries of western europe, the more wealthy ones. but we want to make sure that there are no losers in this partnership, only winners. poland was the promoter of an ambitious reconstruction fund, so that today's response to the challenges of climate, energy, post-pandemic transformation is adequate to the needs, so that economic growth is strong, that it gives hope and does not leave millions of children, women and men defenseless against globalization. we have spoken with one voice with the european parliament on these matters. poland strongly supports the single european market, we want strategic autonomy strengthening the 27 countries. poland or germany, the czech republic and other central european countries are therefore promoting solutions that increase the competitiveness of the european economy in the spirit of enforcing the four fundamental freedoms. free movement of goods, services, capital and people, without encouraging the kind of tax haven activities that some western european countries unfortunately still do, and in this way they are disgracing their neighbours. yes, your honor, the tax havens we tolerate in the union are the taking of money by the richest. is that fair? does it help improve the lot of the middle class or the less fortunate? is this in the catalogue of european values? i doubt that very much. poland and central europe also support an ambitious enlargement policy that will strengthen europe in the western balkans and complete european integration geographically, historically and strategically. we want the union's global aspirations and we are in favour of a strong european defence policy in a structure fully consistent with nato. today, when the eastern border of the union is the target of an organised attack cynically using migration from the middle east to destabilise, poland is the security of europe, providing, together with lithuania and latvia, the bulwark that protects that border, and by strengthening our defence capability we are strengthening the security of the union in the most traditional sense. standing before you today, i would like to thank the polish, lithuanian and latvian services, as well as all the southern european countries, our border guard and uniformed services for their hard work and professionalism in protecting the union's borders. security has many dimensions. today, with all of us feeling the effects of rising gas prices, we can see clearly the results of shortsightedness in energy security. gazprom's policy and the approval of nord stream 2 are already translating into record gas prices. while today in the countries that founded the communities, the level of trust in the union has fallen to historically low levels, such as 36% in france, in poland trust in europe remains at the highest level: more than 85% of polish citizens clearly say that poland is and will remain a member of the union. my government and the parliamentary majority which supports it are part of that pro-european majority in poland. this does not mean that poles today do not have doubts and worries about the direction of change in europe. this concern is obvious and unfortunately justified. i've talked about how much poland has brought to the union, but unfortunately we still hear about the division into the better and the worse. we have too often had to deal with a europe of double standards. and now i'm going to tell you why we need to end this model. today, all europeans expect one thing from us: they want us to face the challenges posed by several crises at once, not against each other, not by forcibly seeking out those who are not guilty, or rather those who are not guilty but who are conveniently blamed. unfortunately, in view of certain practices in the union's institutions, many citizens of our continent are now asking themselves: what do the extremely different decisions and judgments of brussels and luxembourg mean for different member states, which are made in similar circumstances and which in fact perpetuate the division between the countries of the strong, the old and the new union, between the strong and the weak? is that really equality? pretending that problems don't exist has very bad consequences. the citizens are not blind, they are not deaf. if complacent politicians and officials fail to see this, they will gradually lose confidence, and with them, the institutions. and it is already happening, your highness. politics must be based on principles. the principle which we in poland recognize as the foundation of the european union is the principle of democracy. that is why we cannot remain silent when our country, also in this room, is being attacked in an unjust and biased way. the rules of the game must be the same for all, and they are the responsibility of all, including the institutions that have been established by these treaties. that's what the rule of law is all about. it is unacceptable to extend the powers of the court, to act on the basis of established facts. it is unacceptable to impose one's decision on others without a legal basis. the use of the language of financial blackmail, the use of words like penalties or even more extreme language against certain member states is all the more unacceptable. i reject the language of threats, intimidation and blackmail. i do not agree with politicians blackmailing and intimidating poland, with blackmail becoming a method of conducting policy towards one of the member states. that's not how democracies work. we are a proud country. poland is one of the countries with the longest history of statehood and democratic development. three times in the 20th century, at great cost, we fought for the freedom of europe and the world. in 1920, saving berlin and paris from the bolshevik onslaught. then in 1939, going first to the murderous battle with germany, with the third reich, which affected the fate of this war. finally, in 1980, when solidarity gave hope to overthrow another totalitarianism, the cruel communist system. the post-war reconstruction of europe was made possible by the sacrifices of many nations, but not all of them could benefit from it. high lsbo, now a word about the rule of law. but there are many ways to talk about the rule of law, and each one will have a different understanding of the concept to some degree. but i think most of us would agree that there can be no rule of law without a few conditions, without the principle of separation of powers, without the independence of the courts, without respecting the principle that every power has limits, limited competence, and also without respecting the hierarchy of sources of law. union law takes precedence over national law up to the level of statute and in areas of competence conferred on the union. this is the case in all eu countries, but the constitution remains the supreme law. if the institutions set up by the treaties exceed their powers, member states must have the tools to respond. the union is a great achievement of the countries of europe and a strong economic, political and social alliance. it is the strongest, most developed international organization in history. but the european union is not a state. the country is the 20 member states of the union. it is the states that remain european sovereigns, that are the masters of the treaties, and that determine the extent of the competences conferred on the european union. we have given the union a very large range of powers in the treaties, but we have not told it everything. many areas of law remain the competence of national states. we have no doubt that european law takes precedence over national law in all areas where the member states have conferred competences on the union. however, like the courts of many other countries, the polish court questions whether the court of justice's monopoly on the actual boundaries of the conferral of these powers is a correct solution. since the determination of this scope is a constitutional matter, someone must also comment on the constitutionality of such possible new competences. especially when the court of justice is drawing from the treaties ever new competences for the eu institutions. otherwise, it would be pointless to insert article 4 of the treaty of union, which says that the union shall respect the political and constitutional structures of the member states. it would be pointless to insert in the treaty article 5, which says that the union can only act within the limits of the powers conferred, granted. both articles would be empty yes, empty if no one but the court of justice could comment on the constitutional conditions of the domestic order. your honour, i am aware that the recent ruling of the polish constitutional court has been the subject of a fundamental misunderstanding. if i had heard that the constitutional court of another country had annulled the eu treaties, i would have been surprised too, but above all i would have tried to find out what the court actually decided. and it is also for this reason that i have asked to be heard in this debate today, to present to you what is really at issue, and that is not to make up stories of polemics or lies for political reasons about alleged violations of the rule of law. so in the next section of my talk, i want to present the facts to you, and to do that, i'd best go straight to a few quotes. first, in the national legal order, the primacy of eu law does not apply to the provisions of the constitution. this constitution is at the top of the domestic legal system. secondly, the principle of the primacy of community law must not undermine the supremacy of the constitution in the national legal order. third: the constitutional court may examine the ultra vires condition, that is to say, whether the actions of the union institutions infringe the principle of conferral, when the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies have exceeded the limits of their competences in a way that infringes this principle. as a result of such a decision, ultra vires acts do not apply in the territory of a member state. four: the constitution prohibits delegation of powers to the extent that it would mean that the state could not be considered a sovereign and democratic country. i'll skip a few more quotes to save you a lot of time, but i'll just go over the last two. the constitution is the supreme law of poland in relation to all international agreements binding on it, including agreements on the transfer of competence in certain matters, the constitution shall have priority in its validity and application in the territory of poland. and last quote: the delegation of powers to the union must not violate the principle of the primacy of the constitution and must not violate any provision of the constitution. i can see the emotion on your faces. i understand that you disagree with that at least in part in this room. i just don't understand why, because these quotes refer to decisions of the french constitutional council, the danish supreme court, the german federal constitutional court. i have omitted the quotes from the italian, spanish courts, and the quotes from the polish court rulings relate to 2005 and 2010, so after poland became a member of the european union. and this doctrine that we defend today has been entrenched for years. professor marc safian, former president of the tribunal and now a judge at the court of justice, is also worth quoting: 'under the current constitution, there is no basis for the claim that community law is superior to the whole of the national order, including constitutional norms. there's no reason. according to the wording of the constitution itself, it is the supreme law of the republic of poland. the second paragraph of article 91 of the regulation already mentioned expressly provides for the primacy of community legislation in the event of conflict with a statutory provision, but not with a constitutional provision. such positions of the constitutional courts are not new. i could cite dozens of other decisions of constitutional courts in italy, spain, the czech republic, romania, lithuania and other countries. i'm hearing voices in the public debate that some of these rulings were on other issues, smaller in scope. that's right, you did. each ruling is always about something different, but, for god's sake, they all have one thing in common: they confirm that national constitutional courts recognize their right to control, the right to control. that's all i'm saying. to check that union law is applied within the limits of what has been entrusted to it. i shall now devote a few sentences to the union as an area of constitutional pluralism. your highness, there are countries among us where there are no constitutional courts and there are those where there are. there are those who have a presence in the european union written into the constitution and those who don't. there are countries where judges are elected by democratically elected politicians, and there are countries where they are elected by judges. constitutional pluralism means that there is a space for dialogue between us and our legal systems. this dialogue also takes place through the judges' decisions. how else are the courts supposed to communicate other than through their rulings? how did you do that? it cannot be allowed to give instructions and orders to states. that's not what the european union is about. we have a lot in common. we want to have more in common, but there are differences between us. if we're going to work together, we have to accept that these differences exist. we must accept and respect them. the union will not fall apart because our legal systems are different. we've been doing this for seven decades. perhaps we will make changes in the future to bring our legislation even closer together, but for that to happen, it will require the decision of the sovereign member states. today there are two positions we can take: either agree to all the illegal, non-treaty attempts to limit the sovereignty of european countries, including poland, to the creeping expansion of the competences of institutions such as the court of justice, to the quiet revolution taking place not on the basis of democratic decisions but by means of judicial decisions, or say no. if you want to make europe a superstate without nation states, you must first get the consent of all the countries and societies of europe. i repeat once again: the supreme law of the republic of poland is the constitution. it precedes other sources of law. no polish court, no polish parliament and no polish government can depart from this principle. however, it is also worth pointing out that the polish court has never, even in its most recent judgment, held that the provisions of the eu treaty are not wholly incompatible with the polish constitution. on the contrary, poland fully respects the treaties. it is for this reason that the polish court has held that a very specific interpretation of certain provisions of the treaty, which is the result of recent case law of the court of justice, is unconstitutional. to explain this, i'm going to move on to the next part of my talk: the risks to the entire social system of a judge being challenged by another judge. according to the luxembourg tribunal's interpretation, polish judges would be obliged to apply the principle of the primacy of european law not only to national legislation, which is beyond doubt, but also to violate the constitution and the judgments of their own constitutional court. the commission notes that the judgments of the polish courts are not binding on the polish judiciary, and that the judgments of the polish courts are not binding on the polish judiciary. a million convictions! this would be contrary to the principles of independence, inviolability and the stability and certainty of the right to a trial which flow directly from the polish constitution. don't you realize what these decisions can lead to? does anyone here really want to bring anarchy, chaos and lawlessness to poland? the consequence would be a substantial reduction in the constitutional standard of judicial protection of polish citizens and an unimaginable legal chaos. no sovereign state can accept such an interpretation. accepting it would mean that the union would cease to be a union of free, equal and sovereign countries and that, by the mere method of facts, it would be transformed into a centrally managed quasi-state body whose institutions could impose on their provinces whatever they deemed right. that was never agreed to. that's not what the treaties said. it is certainly worth discussing whether the union should change, whether it should not create a bigger budget, whether we should not spend more on security, whether defence spending should not be excluded from the budget deficit procedure. that's what poland is proposing. shouldn't we be strengthening our...
prime minister, i’d like to ask you to conclude, please.
prime minister of poland. acceptance of this would mean that the union would cease to be a union of free, equal and sovereign countries and that it would itself, by the method of the facts, be transformed into a centrally managed quasi-state body whose institutions could impose on their provinces whatever they considered right. that was never agreed to, that was never in the treaties. it is certainly worth discussing whether the union should change or not create a bigger budget. shouldn't we be laying down more for safety? shouldn't defence expenditure be excluded from the deficit procedure? that's what poland is proposing. shouldn't we be building our own resilience to hybrid threats, to cyber threats? shouldn't we be more vigilant about investing in strategic sectors of the economy? how can we finance the energy and climate transition in a fair and efficient way? how can we make our decision-making more efficient? what can be done to ensure that our citizens do not feel increasingly alienated in the union? i ask these questions because i believe that the answers to them will determine the future of the union. we should talk about all this. i shall now turn to the question of the limits of the union's powers and its institutions. important decisions should not be made by changing the interpretation of the law by... (the president cut off the speaker)
prime minister, please, you have to conclude.
prime minister of poland. – sorry, mr president, i was told by the office of david sassoli that i was allocated 30-35 minutes so i will use my time.
i cannot confirm that. i have to ask you to conclude, please.
prime minister of poland. – i’m coming to my end but don’t disturb me, please. sukces integracji europejskiej polegał na tym, że prawo było pochodną mechanizmów łączących nasze państwa w innych dziedzinach. próba odwrócenia tego modelu o 180 stopni, narzucenia integracji poprzez mechanizmy prawne to odejście od założeń, które stały u źródeł sukcesu wspólnot europejskich. o zjawisku deficytu demokracji mówi się od lat i ten deficyt się pogłębia. nigdy dotąd jednak nie było to tak widoczne jak w ostatnich latach. coraz częściej poprzez aktywizm sędziowski decyzje zapadają za zamkniętymi drzwiami i następuje zagrożenie dla krajów członkowskich. coraz częściej bez jasnej podstawy w traktatach, lecz w drodze kreatywnej ich interpretacji, bez żadnej kontroli. i to zjawisko narasta od lat. dziś ten proces osiągnął taki etap, że trzeba powiedzieć „stop”. kompetencje unii europejskiej mają swoje granice. nie wolno nam dłużej milczeć, gdy są one przekraczane. dlatego mówimy „tak” dla europejskiego uniwersalizmu i „nie” – dla europejskiego centralizmu. ja, tak jak każdy z państwa na tej sali, poddaję się demokratycznej kontroli. wszyscy będziemy w ten sposób rozliczeni ze wszystkich naszych działań. reprezentuję rząd, który został wybrany w 2015 roku, po raz pierwszy historii uzyskując samodzielną większość, dlatego podjął ambitny program reform społecznych. i polacy zadecydowali – w kolejnych wyborach w 2018, w 2019, w 2020 roku dokonali demokratycznej oceny naszego rządu. przy największej w historii frekwencji wyborczej uzyskaliśmy najsilniejszy w historii mandat demokratyczny. przez 30 lat żadna partia nie uzyskała takiego wyniku wyborczego jak prawo i sprawiedliwość. i to nie mając wsparcia z zagranicy, wsparcia wielkiego biznesu, nie mając nawet ćwierci tego wpływu na media, co nasi konkurenci, którzy urządzali polskę po 1989 roku. dobiegające do nas paternalistyczne pouczenia o demokracji i praworządności, o tym, jak mamy kształtować własną ojczyznę, że dokonujemy złych wyborów, że jesteśmy zbyt niedojrzali, że nasza demokracja jest rzekomo młoda, to fatalny kierunek narracji proponowany przez niektórych. polska ma długą tradycję demokratyczną, rzeczywiście też tradycję „solidarności”. kary, represje silniejszych gospodarczo krajów wobec tych, które zmagają się z dziedzictwem pozostawania po złej stronie żelaznej kurtyny, to nie jest dobra droga. wszyscy musimy pamiętać o jej konsekwencjach. polska przestrzega zasad unii. nie da się zastraszyć i oczekuje dialogu. aby usprawnić proces tego dialogu warto zaproponować zmiany instytucjonalne. przyszłość europy może być naszym wspólnym sukcesem. dla trwałego dialogu w sposób zgodny z zasadą checks and balances można utworzyć izbę trybunału sprawiedliwości składającą się z sędziów wskazywanych przez sądy konstytucyjne państw członkowskich. przedstawiam dziś państwu taką propozycję. ostateczna decyzja musi należeć do demos i do państw, ale sądy powinny mieć taką platformę do szukania wspólnego mianownika. kończąc, wysoka izbo, musimy także odpowiedzieć sobie na pytanie, skąd europa czerpała przez wieki swoją przewagę, co sprawiało, że europejska cywilizacja była tak silna? historia odpowiada na to pytanie tak: staliśmy się potężni, bo byliśmy najbardziej różnorodnym kontynentem na globie. niall ferguson pisze tak: „monolityczne imperia orientu stłumiły innowacyjność, natomiast w górzystej, poprzecinanej rzekami zachodniej eurazji liczne monarchie i małe miasta-państwa twórczo rywalizowały i stale się ze sobą komunikowały”. europa wygrała więc, zachowując równowagę między twórczą rywalizacją a komunikacją, między konkurencją a współpracą. dziś znowu potrzebujemy jednego i drugiego. wysoka izbo, chcę europy silnej i wielkiej, walczącej o sprawiedliwość i o solidarność, o równe szanse. europy zdolnej stawić tamę autorytarnym reżimom. europy stawiającej na najnowsze recepty gospodarcze, europy szanującej kulturę i tradycję, z której wyrosła. europy rozpoznającej wyzwania przyszłości i pracującej nad najlepszymi rozwiązaniami dla całego świata. to wielkie zadanie dla nas, dla nas wszystkich. drodzy przyjaciele, tylko tak obywatele europy odnajdą w sobie nadzieję na lepsze jutro, odnajdą w sobie wolę działania i wolę walki. to trudne zadanie, ale podejmijmy je, podejmijmy je razem. niech żyje polska! niech żyje unia europejska suwerennych państw! niech żyje europa, najwspanialsze miejsce na świecie!
thank you, prime minister. you will take note that i was extremely flexible regarding the allocated time so that nobody can say that you didn’t have time enough to give explanations to the european parliament. but the respect of the allocated time is also a way of showing respect for this house of european democracy.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. first of all, we must be clear: we are not talking about poland today. the country of poland, the citizens of this country have won their freedom, pope john paul ii has opened the door to the reunification of europe, and the economic success, the economic success of the last 30 years in poland is breathtaking. the poles are now a proud, equal country in the family of the european union, and we are grateful and happy to live in a reunited europe. it is not about poland, it is about polish politics, about the polish government, which is being debated today. yes, i'd like to try to be objective first. europe is not a state. europe is a community of states. but we have committed ourselves to this community of states to respecting a code of conduct, to respecting common rules of the game in this european union. the constitutions of the member states are fundamental, but the financial rules of this community are more important. i also want to justify it: my country, the federal republic of germany, has signed the maastricht treaty and had to change its constitution to make it compatible with the new legal systems in europe. we are forcing countries that want to join to take measures - for example, north macedonia changing its name, a strong interference in the sovereignty of a country - in order to become a member of the european union. that 's why it 's still here . the constitutions are fundamental, they define our common existence. but the financial rules of this european union are more important than the individual constitutions. (applause from the centre) why now? why now? the constitutional treaty, the lisbon treaty, was signed 12 or 13 years ago by jarosław kaczyński, a party friend of yours. why the discussion now? i will tell you why: because today the polish government is putting the ax to the independence of the judiciary at home. that is the question we are faced with, not whether europe and the nation states get along. we also have debates in germany, the czech republic, france, denmark. you have rightly pointed out that these constitutional courts also ask questions and that there are also disputes between courts. it's alive, it's supposed to be. but what makes the polish case special is the fact that the independence of the supreme court is being debated there. there are many constitutional judges in europe who now call the polish constitutional court a trap. that is the problem we are facing today. that's the problem. i would like to thank the many poles who took to the streets and showed a different poland. hundreds of thousands have shown their faces in the streets of warsaw and many other cities. i want to thank donald tusk for calling for these demonstrations. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter. a patriot doesn't have to be a nationalist. he is a convinced european if he is a patriot. and if we ask whether people feel what is actually at issue, i say: yes, they do! the polexit: mr prime minister, i take it that perhaps it is not a political objective of yours to initiate the polexit. but if you reject the primacy of the european court of justice, if you reject the european union as a community of law, if you reject the independence of the judiciary, you are in fact leaving the european union as a community of law. donald tusk is right: if this judgment is not revised, your decision in poland is very, very close to leaving. the poles feel it, and we must prevent it. i would also like to ask you who you are actually with, mr morawiecki. i would like to be a little more political, because you are right to point out that we must not distinguish between good and bad europeans. i'm very much with you. but have you looked around your own squad, the ekr and id? there are those, for example the former tories, who have been agitating against the polish plumber. they're making a big deal out of the truck driver taking his job. there are politicians in your group who say, as the german afd does, that we are paying far too much money to poland and romania and bucharest. that's what we're seeing there. and it was your party friends who 20 years ago refused to accept poland into the european union. i voted for it. i want poland to be a strong member. that means that if you are talking about strong, good and bad europeans, then clean up your own mess! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. you know who's most excited about today's discussion? it is they who are happy about the quarrel in the european union. it is those who want a weak european union. it is those who reject and fight the rule of law as a principle. they're happy! and i say to you, mr prime minister, that by your speech here today you are sowing division and strife in the european union. you are making europe weaker with this political approach. one person will be happy, and that's vladimir putin! the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity. so please stop it! stop it, please! finally, we are discussing here in parliament a complaint against the european commission for inaction on rule of law issues. i would like to thank ursula von der leyen very much for her statement today. i think we should consider whether we should bring an action for inaction against the european council. the commission has also provided information on the number of cases of fraud in the union. our heads of state and government make clever statements when they walk into the room, when they are asked in the interview, and when the room closes, there is silence. this silence is a heavy burden for europe. we need a european council that speaks clearly to poland and to all those who do not respect the rule of law in the european union.
i am sure that you will do the same by listening to what the members of this house have to say. and let me start with a statement: we are very aware of the importance of votes; those of us who are here, we are representing those citizens who have trusted us with their vote, but let me remind you of something that you as a democrat should know, and that is that votes do not give legitimacy to overthrow democracy. we have to have this debate for the sake of the european union and for the sake of poland, because the ruling of the so-called constitutional court has created an unprecedented crisis. it is an unfortunate situation and i am very sorry for it: i am sorry for the millions of poles who want to be in the european union, who feel part of this family, and who now do not know what will happen to their future. you say you do not want a polexit, and i assure you that my political group does not want one either, but you will understand that this is a serious organisation based on legal certainty: unlike dictatorships or absolute monarchies, the european union is governed by the law, which is the same for everyone and which guarantees peace precisely because it is just, because it is foreseeable and because it is observed. you ask for respect for diversity. that is the wealth of our union! but what makes it possible for us to decide together, to agree, is precisely the rules of the game which guarantee equality for all; that is why, when you threaten to break the rules, you stand alone at the exit door: no one is throwing you out, you stand alone. let me say that i think we are missing the point of the debate: when you and the pis party present a confrontation between polish sovereignty and european sovereignty, you have not understood what the union is. seventy years ago the founders understood that in an interdependent world, the best way to exercise sovereignty in certain areas is to share it because together we can solve problems better, together we are stronger. we come here voluntarily because we trust each other, because we believe in a better future; no one forces us to be here, no one takes anything away from us for being part of the european union, but in order to share that sovereignty there are some basic principles that are assumed: the separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary, respect for freedom of the press... and i think that is where the problem lies, that governments like yours have embarked on a path of regression and authoritarianism. that is why their problem is not with the legal order of the european union, but with the principles of democracy and the rule of law, and that is even more worrying. it is a pity that the european institutions are reminding him of this; we cannot remain silent, precisely because of our loyalty to the european project. the commission must act, mrs von der leyen, the waiting times are over: the commission is the guardian of the treaties. because when you accept that you cheat and you lose trust, you stop being partners and you become competitors. and we cannot therefore remain silent in this parliament either, because this is the seat of european democracy, because it is here that we are reflecting what the polish people also want: we have heard what they are asking for in the streets and they are asking us to support them, as are the judges and prosecutors in your country, mr morawiecki. in all this sad and unfortunate crisis there is something good: beyond the laws and beyond the economic plans, the union is a family, and that is what we are seeing these days in the streets of poland. poland is much more than pis, as hungary is much more than orbán and slovenia is much more than janša; and the citizens of these countries, who are suffering from the authoritarian drift of their governments, trust in the union, and we will be their voice and we will accompany them and we will not leave them alone, and we will not leave polish women alone either, we will continue to work with them to guarantee their rights and that no one decides on their behalf. we're in this together! i was in warsaw a few weeks ago and i felt the affection of many people who have put their trust in europe; we shall not let them down. i am also aware of what these people are thinking and we know that we will continue to have dialogue and we will always listen to you, mr morawiecki, we will listen to you with all due respect, but you should also listen to the vast majority of europeans who want to work together. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – dear prime minister, i welcome the opportunity to speak to you directly even though, unfortunately, i might have missed that hopeful part that you had promised to us. maybe we should give him the extra time for that, president. i believe, prime minister, though, that you are leading your country on a dangerous path, a path which calls into question the country’s well-deserved place at the heart of the european union. i remember very well the day that poland joined the european union. it was just such a joyful day, such a day full of hope of overcoming very physical borders, but also the borders in our head. today, it pains me to see how your government undermines this very unity that we celebrated together. your government has turned its back on the rule of law, on the independence of the judiciary, on minorities, on almost anyone who does not fit your reactionary ideology. with this latest judgment, your government—chosen judges also turned their backs on the very principle of the eu itself ˗ the strength of our common laws. let’s make no mistake, this does not just concern poland. what the polish government has done and is doing is an attack on the very existence of the eu itself. our union is not just an economic alignment; it’s a union of peace, cooperation, democracy and the same rules applying to everyone. a union where member states have voluntarily agreed to submit to commonly found agreements in order to offer their citizens a better life, to overcome conflicts and to guarantee peace. the polish government has questioned those fundamental pillars. if we let that pass, then there won’t be much left of those pillars before long. this is a test for all of us, but mostly for the european commission. president von der leyen, being the guardian of the treaties has never been an easy task, but this time is different. when a member state blatantly questions the fundamentals, the commission must act strongly and swiftly. time and time again, your commission has extended a hand of dialogue to the polish government. but, president von der leyen, the polish government has rejected your hand. it is now high time that you fulfil the obligations that the eu’s treaty puts on you, to defend the citizens of poland and to defend the core of the union, a union built on justice.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, where is the legitimacy? who is for freedom? is the rule of law separable from national and popular sovereignty? is it legitimate for an assembly of commissioners, officials and elected representatives from other countries to dictate to a people how it should live and govern itself? that is the whole question that brings us together today. three years ago i went to warsaw on an official mission of our parliament to investigate the reform of the polish judiciary and what was presented to us then as - i quote - a systemic attack on the rule of law. what i have observed, as i did in hungary two weeks ago on a similar mission, is that these accusations are completely unfounded. there is nothing, nothing at all. moreover, one can legitimately question the impartiality of the european institutions, which are concerned with calling into question the primacy of eu law only in certain cases, and on the basis of political calculations and motivations which everyone can see are much more ideological than legal. as you have just pointed out, mr prime minister, judgments similar to those of the polish constitutional tribunal have been handed down in germany, italy, spain, romania and even in france, a country which has forged its concept of constitutional identity. similarly, brussels is only concerned about an alleged breach of the separation of powers in certain countries, and strangely always the same ones, with a worrying radicalisation. the commission and the left in the european parliament, of which the epp now seems to be a part, as illustrated by manfred weber's aggressiveness towards poland, are engaged in persecution of sovereign states whose conservative governments are democratically and widely elected and re-elected. this should lead some of you to be a little less arrogant when we see your election results. while the current procedures are at a standstill thanks to a wise decision by the council, parliament continues to claim to act within the framework of article 7. and since the attacks on the polish justice system are in fact unfounded, other pretexts are found: lgbt claims and the desire to control the sexual education of children. and now they're holding the polish people hostage by using the post-covid recovery plan as a means of financial pressure. the methods are odious, but the objectives are no less so. mr. prime minister, your opponents are not looking for the truth. they want to force a confession on you. they demand forced and public confessions in a country that has faced two totalitarian regimes in the last century. it's not a small thing. the rule of law is a pretext for a genuine stalinist trial. the real motive for these attacks is clear: you reject the laxity of migration, you reject the moral and social dictates of a european federalism which violates the treaties and illegitimately interferes in all national policies, from education to health to family policy and the judiciary. but why the panic of the federalists? why such a misconception as to the real significance of this judgment? simply because the polish constitutional court has finally put the european union back in its place. it is composed of states which freely agree to a common project. they recall that the powers of the european union are only those delegated by the nations in brussels. the treaties clearly define its powers and that's why they're there. there is therefore neither a legal polexit nor a political polexit. mr. prime minister, poland is a great european nation. she has often been at the heart of our shared history, sometimes to your misfortune, sometimes to your glory. on many occasions, notably during the siege of vienna in 1683, the poles resisted and fought, defending european civilization, its nations, its peoples and their freedoms. today you are continuing this tradition by putting an end to the unlimited, totalitarian, sprawling extension of european law, which is being used to impose policies that the people do not want. thank you for your patience and endurance in the face of unjustified accusations. thank you for your determination and courage in defending the freedoms of our nations. thank you for your foresight in upholding our civilized values. hold on to it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, madam president of the european commission, prime minister. prime minister, from what you have heard so far, you might have already guessed that you find yourself in a most peculiar place. the european parliament is the institution that, firstly, has been governed by the same political coalition from time immemorial. this is rather unusual in any nation state, with predictably unfortunate consequences. secondly, the coalition is decidedly left-wing, with the epp and donald tusk following suit, becoming more and more radical and trying to enforce their leftist views on the entire world, including recently, believe it or not, on the american state of texas. thirdly, it has no understanding for dissent and therefore surrounds the dissenting groups with a cordon sanitaire, which is quite an effective way of neutralising the opposition. and fourthly, it has managed to establish a tyranny of the majority that controls everything, from administration to the distribution of the key political positions. once you keep this in mind, you will understand why this parliament has been waging a cold war against, and trying to destabilise, conservative governments in europe, and why, to achieve this end, they have been violating the basic principles of the treaties and making up ad hoc rules that are not there. in this inglorious task, they have been unfortunately seconded by other institutions, including the european commission, which, at least since the times of jean-claude juncker and mr timmermans, became a political institution, strongly partisan, ideological and arrogant. the principles of conferral, subsidiarity and proportionality explicitly inscribed in article 5 were thrown overboard. to give an example, tomorrow there will be another chapter of poland-bashing because of our abortion law. who cares that such matters as abortion are exclusively the competences of the nation state? the majority can outvote any restraining rule. if making 2 + 2 = 5 were to hurt the polish government, they would not hesitate to put it to the vote. you know what? chances are that they would have it carried. having got rid of the basic principles of the treaties, they came up with their own rules which don’t exist in the treaties and which the treaties preclude. the first product of their inventive genius came from the commission, and it was the rule of law framework, and then its parliamentary offspring, the rule of conditionality ˗ an absolute outrage and a sheer monstrosity from a legal and moral point of view. so what? might is right. the newest gizmo is the primacy of eu law. in various public statements this phrase has been immersed in typical eu gobbledygook, but i would love to know what exactly do you mean by making this claim, madam president? there is not a word about it in the treaties. where did you take it from? if not from the treaties, then where from? and what do you think it means? that european law trumps national law in the areas over which the eu has exclusive competence is a rather commonsensical statement. nobody questions it. does it mean that european law trumps the national law in the areas over which the eu does not have any competence? but this is absurd. it would be like the primacy of the european law over the law of the state of texas. i’m sure that the majority of my colleagues in this chamber would want precisely this, but this does not make it any less absurd. or perhaps, by primacy you mean that the european institutions will decide which areas are under their competence and which are not, and the national institutions will have no power to oppose their decision. but this is a very dangerous concept, extremely dangerous, because it gives the eu omnipotence and omniscience it does not have, it cannot have, and to be frank, it does not deserve. over the last decade, the eu has turned out to be unable to restrain itself and respect the limits imposed by the principles of conferral, subsidiarity and proportionality. the trust that it will stay within the treaties in the years to come is gone. you see, madam president, we are not afraid of european law ˗ we are afraid of european lawlessness, of the tyranny of majority, of abuse of power and of the cavalier use of the treaties. despite what one can see in the parliament and in the commission. might is not right.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not mrs von der leyen, at the beginning of your presidency you spoke of resolving the existing conflicts with poland through dialogue. at that time, poland was already facing a rule of law case for attacks on the independence of the judiciary. unfortunately, little has happened since then, and the debate today shows that the conflicts have only intensified. the commission's passivity and yours, mrs von der leyen, have also brought us to this situation. you're taking responsibility for this. the time for nice words is over. act and apply the rule of law mechanism without delay! no more appeasement of the authoritarian right. their policies must not be financed by european funds. mr president, you have today put yourself forward as the right-wing spokesman for the class in this house. her provocations were clear, as was the applause from this corner. you can go on trying to rub people's eyes in the sand, but what you call judicial reform is nothing more than an attempt to undermine the independence of the judiciary and to establish a political judiciary. this calls into question the rule of law and democracy. that is what this debate is about today, namely that there is an authoritarian transformation taking place in poland, a transformation aimed not only at the independence of the judiciary but also at the exercise of fundamental rights. it's unheard of that you didn't find a critical word here about the so-called lgbt-free zones in your country. human rights are being trampled on there, and this policy is tolerated and promoted by your government. (applause from the centre) i find it outrageous how your government denies women in your country the right to bodily self-determination. we are no longer living in the catholic middle ages, where women have been given a chastity belt. now your government wants to build a fence against refugees on the border with belarus. fences are not the solution to political problems. but any fence can be used to break human rights and to undermine the international legal order. it is no wonder that the polish constitutional court has recently questioned the european legal order. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but don't be fooled by their explosive power. if one member state starts to choose which eu legislation it wants to use and which it does not, others will soon follow, and that would be the political end of the european union.
mr president, prime minister, please! the language of aggression is not a sign of strength. in this house, despite your shouting, everyone knows that your government has a minimal majority in the sejm and no majority in the senate. that fragile majority today is what's causing you to try to attack. but who are you attacking? you attack partners and friends, and you look for allies in the wrong places, because they are certainly not friends of poland, attacking us from nationalist positions. because you yourself said that security lies in the community, in our common europe. it was the poles who decided that we were in it, and the poles will decide our place in europe, because we are - that's one true sentence that you said - a proud nation that has its place in europe. in the event of a conflict between community and national standards, polish courts should give priority to the application of the former, european standards. who wrote this? you wrote it, it's your textbook on european law. and this is obvious, because article 91 (2) of the polish constitution clearly states this. why are you talking about a conflict here? it is the court of justice that is guarding the polish constitution, because your government is violating it. it's your government that wants political judges, it's your government that's restricting the freedom of the press and the functioning of free speech. if you write yesterday, if you send letters to the presidents and prime ministers, saying that you will apply the court's decisions, that you confirm that all community rules and obligations will be applied, the question i wanted to ask today is very simple: will the disciplinary chamber be dissolved? is there a law? will the judges who lost their jobs be the ones to rule? judge paweł yuszczycyna 623 days without a ruling. will he be back at work tomorrow? where are your obligations? because today you are playing with the security of poland and poles. you don't have a warrant for this. we will defend european poland, because poland has a different face than just the language of aggression. you saw it last sunday at the demonstrations. the poles are not indifferent to the future of our common future, the future of europe and poland.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, prime minister morawiecki, the polish people, the polish citizens who follow us, know well that it is the untiring demand of this european parliament that has brought to the debate, time and again, the continuing challenge of the government which presides, under the baton of jarosław kaczyński, to the law of the european union and its founding values. and you know why? because this european parliament represents them. it represents the european citizenship of polish citizenship, and it represents poland's commitment to the european union, which is a union of rights and obligations that bind us all by the same law. and so the rhetoric of comparative grievance is ridiculous and hypocritical. you know why? because your government is a unique case of blatant disregard for the judgments of the european court of human rights and the court of justice, such as the one declaring that disciplinary chamber which imposes sanctions on judges who apply european law is incompatible with european law; because your government is a unique case in which the prosecutor general is also minister of justice, and it was the government you preside over which asked the polish constitutional court, declared illegitimate by the council of europe, to declare that nothing less than articles 1, 2, 4 and 19 of the treaty on european union are incompatible with the polish constitution. nothing less than the founding values of the european union: the rule of law, democracy, fundamental rights, the primacy of union law and the role of the court of justice as guarantor. that is why we are asking the commission, again and again, to demand a qualified majority decision from the council, in connection with the article 7 procedure that we have launched in this european parliament; to impose at once the rule of law conditionality mechanism, which prevents access to the european funds until the conditions of european law that bind us all are fully met; to impose, moreover, infringement procedures and fines on the polish government until it fully complies with european law; and, of course, to freeze access to the react-eu funds for those municipalities that have infamously declared or self-proclaimed themselves free of lgbti ideology, which is completely incompatible with european law. and you know what we're doing? we are defending european citizenship from polish citizenship. we are defending poland in the european union. that is what we are doing, because we want a poland fully linked to the european union, not a poland able to disassociate itself from the rules of the game in what suits it, but that yes, accessing european funds, so it is sending a message absolutely unacceptable  if not lethal  for the future of the union: that this is a european union to the letter, not a union of values and rights that bind us all and bind us equally. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would like to say to the prime minister that i have listened to him carefully for 30 minutes. prime minister, even if you had spoken for an hour, i would have silently listened to you. you didn’t talk about the ruling of the constitutional court because the ruling of the constitutional court is very clear. article 1 and article 19 of the treaty are null and void in poland and are in contradiction with the polish constitution. that’s the decision of the constitutional court in poland. and that is a constitution and a treaty, article 1 and article 19, that you accepted in 2004, that the past government accepted at the moment of the lisbon treaty. and you know what these articles –article 1 and article 19 – are. article 1 is an ever—closer union, and article 19 is the central role of the european court of justice. by the way, it is exactly for the same reasons that the hard brexiteers went out of the european union – for these two articles, article 1 and article 19. the sinister game that you are playing is very clear. the sinister game is that you are putting a politicised constitutional court inside poland, and that politicised constitutional court is criticised by whom? by the european court of justice. the way to eliminate the decisions of the european court of justice is to take, with the politicised constitutional court of poland, a decision that the european court of justice (ecj) no longer has a right of decision in poland. that is what you have done, and what you defend here. you are making references to others, to the french and the germans, and there is something to say about the german constitutional court and so on, but they never did that. they never said that article 1 and article 19 were no longer applicable in poland, in their country. they never did that. like i said, the brexiteers did that. what you have done is, in fact, put an existential threat to your country and, most of all, to the people, to the polish people, who are the most pro-european people of the entire european union. that is what you have done. and that reminds me of something very dramatic in european history, by the end of the 18th century, when a great country like poland disappears and makes a fatal mix of bad governance, of external threats and the betrayal of conservatives who could not accept a modern polish constitution at that time. am i the only one who sees some fatal resemblance here with what is happening today in poland? so i have to tell you – i know that you are a historian, prime minister – so i wanted, in fact, to start my speech and to end my speech with a classic historical book: ‘the march of folly’ by barbara tuchman, because it reminds me of what is happening in poland today. it starts with a simple decision, and it goes to another decision, and a further decision, and that is when the folly starts. it is not, in fact, people who want that, not the ordinary polish citizens, it is the ego of big power players who are not thinking what the disaster will be at the end of the story. so my wish, prime minister, is please, come back from these stupid decisions and end, together with the polish people, this march of the folly that you have entered in 2015.
mr president, dear prime minister, dear colleagues, dear commission president. mr morawiecki, despite what you have been saying today, i must admit that i have to ask myself the question after what happened in poland in the last weeks and months, whether on 7 october, when this ruling was proclaimed by the constitutional tribunal, you actually did not secretly open a bottle of champagne together with vladimir putin. because seriously, when i look at the situation, political vision and political agenda, i see a lot of similarities between putin and what your government is doing. what you are trying to do is to convert poland into an authoritarian state with weak democratic institutions and weak enforcement of fundamental rights of its citizens. and you seem to be sharing another political aim with vladimir putin. and that is a weak and disunited european union. but let me break it to you, let me break it to you. the majority of the polish citizens disagrees with you. the majority of the polish citizens – and they have shown that beautifully last weekend – they want to live in a strong poland, in a strong european union based on rule of law, fundamental rights and democracy. and we salute these people in poland. and it shouldn’t be here in the european parliament that this is addressed to you. it should be you, mr prime minister, who speaks to your citizens, who speaks to your judges – some of them i hear on the tribune today – to your prosecutors, to your civil society organisations, speak to them and listen to them. they want to live in a country based on rule of law, with an independence of the judiciary, with separation of powers and with fundamental rights. and i must say i find it unbearably painful sometimes to say so many obvious things again and again in these debates. but yes, obviously, polish citizens are eu citizens and they are protected by eu law, and it is not a nice-to-have luxury for the european commission to protect their rights. it is the duty of the european commission to protect their rights. and lastly, i would like to say one thing, because i think this has been confused a lot in this debate. there is no conflict. there is no disagreement between the polish constitution and the eu treaties on the subject matter that we are debating, on rule of law and separation of power or the independence of the judiciary. they are completely in line there. so please, mr prime minister, bring poland back on a path to rule of law, implement the ecj rulings as demanded and do what your citizens demand you to do: bring poland back really to the heart of europe.
mr president, madam president of the commission, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to be here in this debate to support the polish government's arguments, because we are in a surreal debate in this parliament. it will be the 15th, 20th time we discuss poland; there is no other subject, however important, which has received as much attention and interest from the european parliament as poland. i do not want to repeat the comments that have already been made from a specific technical point of view about other countries, about the judgments of other countries, about the total lack of fairness in the judgement of all the european institutions, because we are here in the presence of a political debate, a political debate that emerges very clearly, because we do not want to compare the situation of the decision of the polish consulta with what happened in poland itself in 2005, with what happened in the other constitutional courts, as has been mentioned several times, but above all we cannot fail to remember that in other countries there have been clear choices in this sense that call this principle into question. but we are talking about politics here, and the speeches i have heard are all political. there is an electoral campaign underway, there is an attempt by the european institutions to change the course of a legitimately elected government in poland, and this is done with very serious interference, because it would be very important to talk about the instrumental use of the judiciary in politics, it would be very important, for example, to talk about other issues. i have heard in several speeches the call to putin and the relationship with russia; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the nord stream 2 gas pipeline. but let's talk about the political situation. i think this debate is yet another self-inflicted wound by the european institutions, which want to use european affairs as a tool to get their noses in and attack a legitimately elected government.
mr president, i am polish today. przyjrzyjmy się, kto dzisiaj uczy polaków i węgrów europejskich wartości i praworządności. annak a nyugati hatalmi elitnek a képviselői, amelyik papírfecnikre írogatott befolyásiövezet-százalékokkal dobott oda minket a szovjet birodalomnak. amelyik elit képviselői véreskezű diktátorokkal, jaruzelskivel és kádárral paroláztak, miközben mi a szovjet terror rendszerében kellett hogy éljünk. és jaruzelski és kádár diktatúrájával szemben a szabadságért, a demokráciáért, a nemzeti függetlenségünkért harcoltunk. és nézzük, miket is képesek összehordani manapság. a járvány negyedik hulláma támad, példátlan bevándorlási nyomásnak vagyunk kitéve, sok helyütt energiaválság alakult ki, és van érkezésük a magyarokat és a lengyeleket zaklatni, hazugságokat, rágalmakat ismételgetve, előítéletesen és gyűlölködve. de tudniuk kell, mi a saját erőnkből vívtuk ki a szabadságunkat és a nemzeti függetlenségünket, így hát önökkel szemben is meg fogjuk védeni. niech żyje polska! niech żyje polska wolność!
mr morawiecki, during your speech i was not sure if i was listening to you or to nigel farage. if you are going to talk about justice and rule of law, at least be honest with us. the truth is, not a single court in europe has challenged the supremacy of the treaties – only your government and the constitutional court appointed by your party. you can question the law and the competences, but if you question the supremacy of the treaties, you are questioning the whole european foundation. let me be clear, this is a road to exit. there is no room for alternative solutions. in other words, what you are proposing here today is a constitutional brexit. your vision of poland is driven by fear, but you are not scared about losing polish identity; you are only scared about losing your power. mr morawiecki, the mission of poland that the polish people have is made by hope and dreams. poland was already a great european nation before you, and it will continue being a great european nation after you and your party. for the polish people, europe and freedom mean the same.
madam president, prime minister, please! i don't hide that i feel ashamed that once again, because of your government's actions, we are talking about poland here. i don't know if you should be here today explaining your lies to the meps. everyone knows that minister ziobro is responsible for the eu policy in your government. recently in the sejm, commenting on the shameful ruling of the so-called court, you suggested that the european union is implementing the vision of european bureaucrats. mr. prime minister, the only vision that affects the lives of poles is jaroslaw kaczyński's anti-european obsession. in the same speech you spoke of the problems with european values. what do you know about values if you divide citizens into different classes and take the union flags out of the offices? you also mentioned freedom. so why is it that during protests against the government's decisions and party policies, your police officers beat peacefully demonstrating women and youth, and nationalist militias silence pro-european speeches, even those of the warsaw uprising? your last quote, mr prime minister, is that we are at a very crucial moment today, a crossroads in the history of the european union. that is the only truth we have heard from you, because the history of the union will be written with or without poland. you also have a so-called verdict, and you're doing everything to keep us from being co-authors. madam president von der leyen, prime minister morawiecki's speech is a stream of lies and half-truths. in poland, we've gotten used to it. but neither the commission nor you should get used to it. the time for worrying is over.
prime minister! if i was joking, i'd say congratulations to you. your government has broken the guinness world record. i think that never before has parliament had to deal with another member state as much as it does with poland and with poland's problems with the independence of the judiciary, the rights of women, lgbt people and media freedom. but there's no joking around. you should use your energy, but for poland, to work with the european union on solutions that guarantee, for example, access to a gynaecologist for polish women in rural areas and the right to independent living for people with disabilities in poland. your government doesn't have to go down this road. poland can still be remembered as a country that works for democracy, human rights, common eu values. we don't want poland to continue to be a symbol of lawbreaking, a symbol of division and hatred.
mr president, prime minister, madam commissioner, upholding the rule of law is important, but more important is equality. and look, german rulings 2010, 2019, 2020: the constitution is higher than eu law. france 2021: constitution higher than eu law. spain 2020: constitution higher than eu law. even romania 2021: constitution higher than eu law. and now in poland is exactly the same, but only poland cannot. because you don’t like this government, you want to have back those puppets who agree to everything you say. but my country is independent, and only poles can decide who rules. jean-jacques rousseau said when poland was attacked from every side, you mentioned about 80 centuries today. he said to the polish people: ‘do not follow europe blindly because in the end of this path is only money. love the freedom you have always defended’.
mr. chairman, please! high isbo! madam president! thank you very much for your clear warning to the government of prime minister morawiecki. i hope they listen. mr. prime minister, i have listened to you carefully and i agree that in the confederation the relationship between the national constitutional courts and the institutions of the union is a matter of fair dispute. but that's also a big lie on your part, because that's not what this is about. it is not the essence of the issue whether the lisbon treaty negotiated by jarosław kaczyński and ratified by lech kaczyński is incompatible with the polish constitution. that's not the point. the point is, can honest judges be removed, intimidated, and replaced with pushovers? are judges in poland supposed to be as independent as the przyłębska magister court or kursky tv? this filthy practice is not a constitutional issue at all, because it is incompatible with the polish constitution, the european treaties and the foundations of latin civilization in general. you're breaking all three. mr. prime minister, as prime minister of the republic of poland, you have a duty to ensure the poles have the right to an independent judiciary, and to ensure that poland receives european funds. so i have only one question: will you comply with the judgments of the ecj, abolish the disciplinary chamber, restore honest judges and return to the european legal order? - yes or no?
mr president, prime minister, how the eu responds to the crisis will shape the future of the eu; the authority and credibility of our own institutions are at stake. and it is not just about poland. what we see in poland arises from the laxity of the european institutions with powerful member states like spain that have a good grip on the machinery in brussels. we have denounced this indulgence with spanish abuses of the rule of law one time and another. but you do not listen. this double standard is now catching up with you. your lack of moral authority to prevail before member states not as powerful as spain that dare to openly challenge the union and take us all to the brink of an existential crisis. know that whatever do you do with poland, ms von der leyen, soon enough you will have to do with spain. because the spanish culture – as openly violating eu law ... and the day of reckoning is approaching. perhaps that is exactly why, probably, you will do nothing.
i have already said on several occasions, mrs ponsatí obiols, that if speakers do not stick to the subject, that is a matter for the political groups. you are a non-attached member and the administration guarantees you the right to speak. i'm calling you to order.
mr president, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i'm horrified, and because i'm horrified, i'm worried. i'm concerned about your irresponsibility. and i am concerned that you are throwing the european union and the european idea into the fire. look in this room. this is a space which embodies the citizens of europe: different people, different religions, different nations, different opinions. and yet today, 80 to 90 percent of all the speakers have pulled together because we are bound by common law, common values, liberal democracy, the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the media. and you have put yourself outside this common business basis of cooperation in europe. it is therefore the future of the european union that is at stake. it's about the future of poland. we're on the side of poland. we are on the side of the citizens. we make sure they're protected from arbitrariness, abuse and authoritarianism. and 64% of polish citizens say that poland is on the wrong track. 88% want to remain in the european union. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, prime minister, please! you got a big chance today, you got a chance to redeem yourself today. unfortunately, you didn't take advantage of that opportunity. you have unpardonably attacked the commonwealth. you have unfortunately signed up for something that today brings great shame to the poles and poles. the disgusting rhetoric in which your colleagues call the flag of the european union 'a hoax', the european union 'an imaginary community' and the place where we are today 'the occupier of brussels'. so don't try to sell us any bullshit today, we're not gonna fall for your phony spells. if you've come to strasbourg to treat us with sleep, to put us to sleep, you'll be very disappointed. we're not gonna take any shit from them. you lost. you're going back to poland today on the shield. twenty-six to one. and it's a pity that he didn't have the courage to come here today to strasbourg, your real patron jarosław kaczyński. the one who is responsible for all this today, but from strasbourg we send him a message, from strasbourg with love: you will get a fig with poppy if you persecute women, if you do not respect the independence of the judiciary, if you raise your hand against minorities. today, the aforementioned president lech kaczyński is turning over in his grave when he hears what you have done to the european union. you have no mandate to do what you do to poles and poles... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, mr prime minister, madam president of the commission, i would like to begin by saying that the whole origin of this conflict is the disregard for judicial independence. it is clear that in the context of the european union, in the context of democratic states and the rule of law, there cannot be governments, political parties and institutions which do not respect judicial independence. in any european state, the moment the independence of the judiciary is called into question, all other principles are called into question. this is a basic principle. why has the polish constitutional court decided that polish law is ahead of european law, violating all the rules of the treaties, disregarding the treaties and calling into question the european single market, but not only the market, but also european values? because judges are not independent. the root of the evil is the attempt in several european states, and even in some of those which are not mentioned, to control, to influence the judiciary, the judges, the judiciary. never confuse the polish government and the polish constitutional court with the people of poland. the polish people have had centuries and centuries of struggle for freedom, for the values of law, and we must rightly call on the polish people to assert the rule of law in the streets and in the institutions, to assert the independence of the judiciary and to give european law once again primacy over polish law in matters where this primacy is necessary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. whether it's a sports club or the european union, anyone who wants to play must abide by the rules. but, mr morawiecki, by the verdict of a constitutional court, which you have made possible, and which is staffed by puppets of your party, you are trampling on the rules of the eu treaties and thus on the very heart of our community. yes, the judicial systems are not fully harmonised within the eu. but the independence of the judiciary is an indispensable part of our common democratic values. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. if you continue to withhold funds from the reconstruction fund, you will finally be applying the rule of law mechanism. to the heads of state or government: how is it that this judgment, with all its possible consequences, is not on the agenda of the eu summit? what good is it to debate digitalisation, trade and more while at the same time attacking the eu at its core? they must now clearly commit themselves to the principles of our union. the thousands of people in poland who are protesting for the return of their country to democracy and the rule of law, and the millions who are in poland - as in all of europe - supporting our democratic europe. otherwise, the polexit could come upon us unwillingly.
i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. i would also like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief statement on the situation in the community. we should really stick to the agenda. a member has plenty of options. i repeat: the non-attached members are given speaking time by the administration. i think it is not unfair to expect you to stick to the agenda and not make such debates a prolonged workbench for your own debates.
mr president, for the people of poland, the european union means they can choose freely where they live, where they work and where they study, anywhere in the european union. for the people of poland, europe means more investment and better and more stable jobs at home. it means a better quality of food. it means better roads, more highways, quicker trains, more modern buses, better schools and more modern hospitals. this is what europe brings to the people of poland. it also means stronger institutions and it means the rule of law. let me be very clear: strong institutions are in the interest of the people, weak institutions only serve a few. respecting the rules serves the people and breaking the rules, attacking the rules, only serves politicians. by attacking the european union, prime minister morawiecki, you are attacking poland’s chances to develop, you are attacking poland’s future, and you are attacking poland’s home. by attacking the european union, the prime minister of poland makes poland weaker, more isolated and poorer, and this is against the interests of the polish people. in the next years, poland will receive more support from the european union than ever, more than eur 110 billion. this is money from the people of europe for the people of poland. we want this support to get to the people of poland who are in need. this is why rules exist, so that politicians cannot misuse the money. these rules are the same for all countries. they should be applied. we hope the government of poland will not be an obstacle in our desire to help.
madam president, mr president, mr prime minister, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you go. we have a polish prime minister here tonight, but we have several former polish prime ministers in our parliament. there's jerzy buzek, who started negotiations with the european union. i'm the one who ended the negotiations. my government held a referendum on membership, in which 77% of poles said yes to the european community. i feel very satisfied that today, 18 years later, despite the anti-union propaganda, the acceptance rate for the community is even higher, reaching 90%. of course, it's largely a matter of opposing anti-unionism, not accepting it. today, we heard again that the authorities are not pursuing polexit. if there is a spell that says there is no exit from the union, the problem is that the authorities think of the european union, which is not and will not be. the ruling class thinks of a money union, but not a value union and not a law union. they think of a union to fight, not to work with. poland fought the german occupier, fought the soviet occupier. we will fight the brussels occupier, the adviser to the prime minister said recently, without the head of the government objecting. the prime minister himself sounds like nigel farage, who as early as 2000 predicted that a european superstate would take away the identity and sovereignty of nations, and give it to brussels officials and a brussels dictatorship. 21 years on, there's no super state, but there's brexit, and there's the followers and the followers of farage. i'm sure that the european poland will not follow in that footsteps, will remain loyal... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, this rule of law crisis is a sad story. the eu was founded to keep the peace. it now seems that the eu is a source of discontent and tension. a threat to peaceful cooperation. the eu and poland have the obligation to think about ways how to solve this current crisis. we are not important – the voters are. instead of blaming each other, we must look into the future and think about all the parties involved. this requires wisdom and courage. we have to look at the direction we want to go in. to create trust between all member states it is important that we can come together behind a common goal. through the use of soft power like with the erasmus+ programme. this goal should not be an abstract apple of discord like the rule of law mechanism. focus on something concrete, something useful, something that will unite us, and you all know what that is: we have to connect europe and we have to make a start with high speed rail.
mr president, commissioner, prime minister, mr morawiecki, i quote a polish writer: 'the master of lies is like a rabbit, for he gives birth to new lies endlessly'. it is not true that the constitutional court has confirmed that the constitution is above eu law, because it is self-evident. it is not true that eu law is unconstitutional. it is not true that the ecj interferes with the judiciary in poland. the only thing that eu law requires is that the sentences in poland do not fall on your pis party headquarters. it is not true that the constitutional tribunal can choose which judgments of the cjeu to enforce and which to throw away. it is a lie, a cynical lie, that the constitutional courts of other countries have ruled similarly to the polish "pis" tribunal. mr morawiecki, what are you doing? this is addressed to you by the 26 retired judges of the constitutional court - real judges, not your party colleagues, whom your party first dressed in togies, and then you sent them your absurd question. the constitutional court, which was supposed to protect the sovereign from the power, you've filled with men of power to protect the power. you have the right to govern because you won the elections, although according to the osce the elections in poland are no longer democratic. but please, for god's sake, let's agree on a minimum of decency: let's agree on the compatibility of your laws with the polish constitution and...
mr president, the great collective tragedies of our continent's history all began with the abandonment of law in favour of force. in the 20th century, my country has experienced this once, once too often. others, including poland, have been through this experience twice, twice too many times. all this would not have happened if the right of force had not prevailed over the force of law. the european union is a guarantee and a hope, thanks to a common area of law with an arbiter who ensures that the commonly accepted rules are respected. many of us in this room had the honour in a previous life of laying flowers in dark suits and dark ties in front of memorials to the victims of barbarism and arbitrariness, chanting the slogan "never again". these three words, "never again", sound hollow if we are not determined to suppress the violations of the principles of the rule of law, even if they still exist only in the broadcast state. the most effective way to ensure that this never happens again is to respect the rule of law.
mr president, there once was a man in poland who wrote a book about eu law, and he explained very convincingly the principle of primacy of european law. that man later turned to politics, became prime minister and joins us here today. and to my surprise, claims exactly the opposite of what he wrote before. now, prime minister, the law hasn’t really changed since you wrote your book. the only thing that has changed is your idea about the political convenience of the law. but the rule of law can never bend to political convenience. not in poland, not anywhere. and that must be clear. two further points. let’s not fall into the trap of pretending that this is a legitimate ruling from a legitimate court because it’s not. it’s a politically motivated statement from a politically controlled court taking orders from the ruling party. and, as one legal commentator described, it is a political hit job dressed up like a court case, and we should not make the mistake of giving it more credit than it’s due. and secondly, a message to the polish citizens. we have seen you, hundreds of thousands of you on the streets in warsaw and other cities, protesting against the increasingly autocratic and anti—european behaviour of your government, protesting against a domestic dismantling of the rule of law. we hear you and we stand with you, and we also say to you, don’t fall for the prime minister’s attempt here today to shift the blame and responsibility for the situation to the european union. nobody is blackmailing poland. nobody wants to punish poland, but actions have consequences, and these consequences are the responsibility of the polish government and the polish government alone.
mr president, the decision of the polish constitutional court is a further escalation in the challenge to the fundamental principles of the union. i have listened to you very carefully, mr prime minister, and i can see where you are trying to take this parliament, which you do not hold in very high esteem. this tactic, viktor orbán has already used it right here. it is to compare criticisms of your government with those of another government, considering that the reaction of the european institutions is different and therefore discriminatory because it is poland, as it was hungary before. but your argument is not correct, since the federal constitutional court of germany has recognised the primacy of european law. this is also incorrect in the case of france, since referral to the constitutional council resulted in a revision of the constitution. so your line of defense is broken. face the facts: you're looking for a perfect martingale. face, it is the union that loses and pile, it is the pis that wins. it's called manipulating public opinion. because what you're doing here is not fooling anyone. you don't debate with us, you actually talk to the poles and rely on social networks and media to get your message out, even if it creates confusion. so let us be clear: nobody is prevented from criticizing european policies - it is a sport we are very used to. but it is another thing to tear up the common rules freely agreed upon when we joined the union. this is where the commission must not have a shaky hand and must stop procrastinating. the polish recovery plan cannot be approved. on the other hand, it is necessary to re-establish the article 7 procedure, apply the rule of law conditionality and consider an infringement procedure. that is what a commission of the guardians of the treaties is supposed to do.
mr president, madam president, mr prime minister, europe can never be one of ‘us’ and ‘them’. poland is us, that has always been our point, and if there is a deficiency in one member state it affects us all. poland is a crown jewel of our union. my generation looked to your country as the embodiment of moral leadership in the struggle against authoritarianism, courage in the face of decades of totalitarianism. the nation of freedom-fighters who showed us all how not to be afraid. where a girl from warsaw can win two nobel prizes, a trade unionist from gdansk can bring down an iron curtain, where a priest from krakow can inspire the world. so this was a nation that joined the eu and demanded a guarantee of democracy, equality, justice, meritocracy, because it lived with the opposite for far too long. and that is what we saw on the street 10 days ago. the question of primacy of eu law is a pillar of our union. it is how we have equality. it is how we have a single market, how we function, and what we see in poland is not comparable to what is happening in other courts of other states. because when the judiciary is purposely weakened to become a vassal of the administration of the day, it is no longer a legal question, it is a political one. it is a political direction from your government, prime minister, to move away your poland from europe. no one is attacking poland. what we are asking for is that the direction is reversed before it is too late. your companies, your farmers, your students, your judges, your artists, entrepreneurs, your citizens believe ... (the chair cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! for 25 years, poland was considered a model of a democratic and rule-of-law state: the tripartite division of power, the independence of judges, freedom of speech and assembly, respect for minorities, dialogue with the opposition, european solidarity. in the last six years, most of these achievements have become history: the tripartite system is a fiction, all decisions are made by one autocrat, parliament has been turned into a cabaret in which the voting system is broken when members of the government are in the minority. opposition mps are punished for almost everything, judges are persecuted for respecting the constitution and the judgments of the ecj. the constitutional court and the supreme court are puppets. public television lies all the time, independent media is almost non-existent. police brutalizing protesters while protecting nationalist militias. during that time, poland dropped 40 places in the press freedom rankings. anyone who criticizes these governments is a traitor. the divisions in society have never been so deep in history. the eu has been attacked on numerous occasions by senior politicians in the ruling camp. today, threatened with losing european money, without which they will lose the next elections, they want dialogue and compromise. this is a fake. there will be no compromise. a few days ago, their leader openly announced the total destruction of the judiciary. europe needs a poland that respects common principles and values. poland and the poles need a europe in which, for the sake of peace, opportunism does not prevail.
mr. chairman, madam chairman of the commission, mr. prime minister, i'm sorry, but i'm not going to be able to make it. you came here today and you said a lot, but you didn't say anything to us. you were speaking only to your electorate, which you improved on kaczynski's orders with the disgusting propaganda of the national media, dehumanizing your fellow citizens and all of united europe. this is the europe that we all wanted to go to: my whole generation, my parents' generation and my grandparents' generation. and you made poland a laughingstock on the international stage. you dress up every day in patriotic feathers, but you're not patriotic. patriotism is a strong poland in a strong european union. and you are euro-separatists. and you, mr. morawiecki, are a pinocchio in the hands of the prince of novgorod. you have built a "pseudo-democracy", a "dictatorship of the dark", a system in which there is no longer a separation of powers and the courts are appropriated. you've built walls in poland, separated your family and friends, and now you're trying to bring us into conflict with the european union because you're not good at foreign policy. instead of negotiating more resources for a just transition, you fought the rule of law bill. why are you doing this? only to maintain power. because it's the supreme court that confirms the validity of elections in poland. the european union is not perfect. we need more integration and federalisation. the pandemic has shown that only a common health and foreign policy can make europe great again. and so it will be, mr. morawiecki, a worthless fur, because poles, silesians, kashubi and others are europeans, and you will end up in the garbage of history as the last plastic monument of nationalism and populism. and i have a present for you, and i'll bring it right over.
prime minister! i asked for the last word so that you would understand clearly here, in the heart of europe and in the eyes of all europe, what i have and what we have to say to you. mr. prime minister, we will not allow you to steal our children's future. we, the poles, will not allow you to do this. we will not allow you to rob millions of poles of their dreams. and we will not allow you, mr. prime minister, to put our parents, our families, our grandparents, in danger. putin is putting his hands behind your back. today you fight the rule of law, you fight the courts, you fight the tribunals. you know why? because you want to be unpunished. but the time will come, the day will come when you will stand before these courts, these tribunals, these judges.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, before i start, i want to say clearly and unequivocally: you will not push poland out of the european union. poland is and will be in the european union because that is the decision and the will of the poles. and it's time to stop the lies and the false claims that you've been making here today. mr president, madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, five years ago i stood here in this chamber, before the european parliament as the polish prime minister, and i explained that poland is a country that loves freedom, solidarity, whose citizens are proud to be poles, to be europeans. i too have said it and i say it again today: i am polish and i am european. i'm proud of that. i explained why our country, my homeland, which has shed so much blood, whose citizens have fought for the freedom of other nations, did not give up and aspired to be here in this community. it was our dream, because we knew that only then poland would be able to develop and that only then poland would join the group of countries that, as we thought at the time, were guided above all by the principles of the founding fathers of this community: sovereignty, freedom and equal treatment and respect for everyone. and we still believe in these ideals and we still believe in this kind of european union, and that's why we want to talk about the need for change with such concern. what has changed over the years, ladies and gentlemen? poland has changed a lot. we have ambitious social and investment programmes, we are growing, we have some of the best economic performance in europe. what's changed here? we can say that a hard conservatism has arisen: it is the same thing over and over again, it is the same thing over and over again, it is the polish justice system, which is not the competence of this house. and you know it. and all the lies that are being told here are only and exclusively to support this debate, which is convenient for this part of the european parliament. and finally, i would like to say this: i am ashamed of these polish meps who attack poland, their homeland, here and there. but the joke of history is that most of the time they either come from socialist systems or they have privatized poland in such a way that they have sold off all our national assets. ladies and gentlemen, the european union must develop. poland certainly wants such a union and will be in such a union.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm here to summarize the debate in which the prime minister gave only one specific response. i understand the disciplinary chamber is being disbanded. but there was another part to my question. this means that as of tomorrow, the dismissed judges can return to work and can return to the bench as per the court's ruling. prime minister! you've told so many lies, it's impossible to correct them in a minute. but the judge you mentioned, judge milewski, he never wrote a decision. he got thrown out and moved to another court because he made a phone appointment. where are the decisions of the court written? at the social gatherings that jarosław kaczyński is talking about? who's the judge? prosecutor of the military state piotrowicz. these are your colleagues today. you're relying on them. are you talking to me, a member of the anti-communist structures of radio solidarity, the nzs? are you talking to me? are you accusing us of being on the wrong side? you have your communist friends today and you rely on them in this centralization of the state, power, the party above everything. we will not be destroyed. finally, i would like to thank you all, from left to right. i am very proud to have such support from your side. we have different ideas, we are in different parties, but we are together in one common europe because of values and principles. thank you for your solidarity. thank you in the name of the 84% of poles who are on the streets today to defend a democratic europe. thank you all.
in writing. this debate about the alleged rule of law crisis in poland unfortunately shows once again how far removed from reality the issue on which this house leans can be. many members in this chamber, and even more so the representatives of the european commission, have not been given any factual, substantive argument or explanation. as my country's prime minister mateusz morawiecki said, "once again we must prove that we are not camels". unfortunately, this is like a trial where the verdict is already in before it even begins. the accusations against poland have no basis in the eu treaties, so new instruments of pressure or conditionality are being created to attack a democratic and sovereign state such as poland. a country that has been increasingly intimidating and blackmailing in recent times is being forced to make concessions, even though there is no basis for such actions. poland fully respects the treaties and is open to dialogue. but it's time to change the language of this pseudo-dialogue. paradoxically, those who have the most accusations against poland are the most afraid of the so-called polexit. but you can't kick poland out of the european union. we are an important part of it by the will of the poles and we intend to remain in it, co-creating its present and future shape, standing on the guard of values that have been sacred and unchanging for us for centuries: god, honor and homeland.
in writing. the purpose of today's debate is not to protect the rule of law in poland, it is a pretext to attack the democratically elected government of one of the member states for ideological reasons, and perhaps for other hidden reasons. the polish constitutional tribunal upheld its case law concerning the relationship between eu law and the polish constitution. the judgment merely clarifies the existing case-law on the relationship between the polish constitution and eu law, granting the former primacy and recognising the primacy of eu law only in the area of delegated competences. it's not new. this is directly due to the former case law of the polish constitutional court. the constitutional courts of other member states have also reviewed the interpretation of the ecj of the content of the primary law rules on numerous occasions. it is therefore not unusual to assess the compatibility of eu law with the national law of the member states. the judgment of the polish constitutional tribunal does not call into question the idea of the primacy of union law. it is clear from the judgment that the principle of the primacy of eu law cannot authorise the eu institutions to act beyond the powers conferred on them, to challenge the hierarchical primacy of the constitution, since it is on the basis of the constitution that the eu is entrusted with its powers, and above all to act in a way that deprives the republic of poland of the characteristics of a sovereign and democratic state. but they don't want to hear polish arguments, they don't want to talk. so why the debate?
in writing. the constitution is the supreme law of the republic of poland. that's what article 8 of the first chapter of the polish constitution says. in the opinion of the european parliament, which is again unjustly attacking poland, does observance of the most important polish law constitute a breach of the rule of law? such reasoning sets a dangerous precedent that can lead to a weakening of the community. the european union is not and will not be a creation of two states with an army of officials. the european union is made up of sovereign and independent states with their own culture, traditions and history. prime minister mateusz morawiecki said in his speech that the european union is not a state. the 27 member states of the union are states! it is the states that remain european sovereigns are the masters of the treaties and it is the states that determine the extent of the competences conferred on the european union . only this approach can stop the dangerous process of the eu's slow destruction! the misunderstanding of the concept of the rule of law by officials in brussels and luxembourg cannot be a way to attack sovereign states. poland has always stood on the side of the rule of law. for those who do not remember or do not want to remember, i would remind you that we fought effectively for the rule of law against the bolshevik storm that wanted to flood europe, against the german occupation that wanted to colonize europe. we defended europe from communism, and now we're defending the eu's eastern border from the flood of illegal immigrants. all in the name of upholding the rule of law!
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the egf considers that the commission's work programme for 2022 should focus on addressing the effects of the pandemic, including poverty reduction, public health resilience and economic development. as regards climate policy initiatives: firstly, they must not be at the expense of the poorest social groups; secondly, they must not lead to the deepening of energy poverty and the collapse of entire mining regions. we are disappointed that the project to change the mobility package needed to maintain the coherence and credibility of climate policy has not been included in the list of planned initiatives. the current situation at the european union's external border with belarus has given a new context to the discussion on schengen reform. we support efforts to restore the schengen area to full functionality and to build a crisis-resistant migration management system in the european union. the key is to regain control of migration flows to the european union on a lasting basis by further reducing irregular migration and the abuse of the asylum system. we would also like to stress that when designing specific legal solutions, the european commission should respect the treaty principles, including the principles of subsidiarity, equality and proportionality.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. i would like to begin by thanking my fellow rapporteurs who worked on this budget, and i think we have achieved a good result. so congratulations to you, because we've all really worked really hard together on this. the 2022 budget is a budget under the multiannual financial framework and is the second such budget. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. in this case, we can say that the european commission is not treating covid-19 and the post-crisis situation fairly. poland, for example, has no approved plan and this reconstruction fund seems to be some kind of repressive apparatus. it's very unfair, because everyone got sick and everyone survived the tragedy. in this report, we oppose any cuts to 'horizon europe', eu4health or resceu. we are also very concerned that, as far as the hera project is concerned, the european commission is putting the european parliament off the case a little bit. the ecr also dislikes gender budgeting, which is the linking of budgets to gender issues, biodiversity or sexual health. i would like to conclude by referring to mr boeselager, who devoted three minutes of his speech to the issues of the morning. well, i wanted to say that today - mr. damian, i'm talking to you - today a polish court acquitted (...), who was driving without a license, with a defective car, without a license. he hit an 81-year-old woman in the crosswalk. today, a polish court acquitted him.
madam president, here we are together debating on the general budget of 2022. the average comment of my dear colleagues is that we need more money for closing gaps, green policies, digital agendas or tourism. most of these could easily be funded if we didn’t waste so much money on rules and regulations. yes, dear colleagues, a lot of money is wasted on too many bad regulations created by the eu institutions, probably with the best intentions but lacking experience and knowledge of the horrible side effects of eu law. take, for instance, public procurement law, a labour-intensive piece of legislation that doesn’t solve any problem but leads to endless, complex, costly processes. since its introduction, it has caused billions spent on implementation, enforcement, control and litigation. and this is only one example. if the eu decides to spend money, we must be aware of the fact that costs of regulations multiply in real life. if we are to spend money, it should be spent wisely.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! we are talking about the next eu budget for 2022, but today we also discussed a very serious matter concerning the rule of law in the european union. and we cannot accept another budget without looking at what is really happening in some member states. i represent a country like poland, where there are serious violations of the rule of law and where european taxpayers' money is still being transferred. and we have to be the guardians of that budget. it cannot be that the money of the belgians, the dutch, etc. is being used to sponsor the autocratic governments of orban or kaczyński. and the european commission must be the guardian of public funds in this matter and must watch over it. the second thing that is very important about this budget is that we, as the committee on equality and women, have repeatedly said that there is a lack of gender equality, gender mainstreaming and gender budgeting. this too must be resolved and the european commission must finally start to listen to our voice on this matter, because equality is equality.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 20 october 2021. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in tunisia (2021/2903 ((rsp)).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 21 october 2021.
the next item is the report by mr charlie weimers, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the european parliament recommendation to the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on eu-taiwan political relations and cooperation (2021/2041 (ini)) (a9-0265/2021).
mr president, i would like to thank mr weimers for his report, a good job, charlie. the european union needs to search for friends worldwide. a prime candidate for our friendship is democratic taiwan. let me repeat taiwan, not texas. taiwan, which is already an important economic partner, manufacturer of leading technology, taiwan is a reliable partner in a time of pandemic. it is not china. taiwan is our guide in how to deal with china. first, as a country warning about covid, we should continue this cooperation. it is giving direction on how to deal with china policy and the far east. it is helping us to fight china’s disinformation. what can we do for our friends in taiwan? we have to recognise them by giving them more and more access to international institutions, first and foremost to european institutions.
mr president, we must support the upgrading of political cooperation and the deepening of economic cooperation with taiwan for three reasons in my view: first, taiwan has a very dynamic economy and has proven to be a fully reliable partner of the european union. secondly, its economy has qualitative characteristics in research, innovation and digital transition that show us where we need to focus our cooperation to cover our own shortcomings as well. thirdly, with democracy and the rule of law, taiwan is sending the right messages in a region of great strategic importance where the democratic model of political organisation is being questioned by some. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is based on european strategic autonomy and european calculations. that is why, in my opinion, it is of particular importance.
president. - thank you very much, mr weimers, for your historic report. and i fully agree with him that the european union and taiwan share the common values of freedom, democracy and human rights. let us not underestimate the intentions of communist china. china is seeking to become a world leader and the incorporation of taiwan seems to be one of the first goals. remember, chinese president xi is a dictator, and dictators are usually unfriendly and often show a hard hand. we have seen this in recent months with the enormous aggression both in the air and on the sea. whether president xi will eventually push through and take taiwan by force, we don't know. we certainly hope not. but for us, as the european union, let us do everything possible to maintain the best possible relations with taiwan, including a trade agreement. we must show our solidarity with taiwan at all times and in all places.
mr president, there are many lessons to be learned from a pandemic, but i do believe that the most important one is that democracies should stand together. during the pandemic, taiwan sent much-needed masks to the european union and to other countries. and for us, taiwan is our inspiration in many fields. for example, as we know taiwan represents 50% of the world’s semiconductor production. i do believe that our economic cooperation and newly prepared bilateral investment agreement (bia) is a natural strengthening of cooperation at the economic level between communities with equal values and belief in democracy and justice. i do believe that taiwan is an inspiration also in the fight against the pandemic and deserves full membership of the world health organization (who). we cannot be blind to china’s escalating provocations against the taiwanese people, and we have to say a clear ‘no’ to these provocations and a clear ‘yes’ to cooperation between our democracies. i am convinced that the cooperation between eu and taiwan will enrich each other and bring benefits to both parties. democracies should stand together.
executive vice-president of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, congratulations charlie weimers for your report and for this very positive reception in the plenary today. i think this has been a very useful but also very timely exchange, because the debate today confirms that while remaining committed to the eu’s one china policy, we share the same interest in continuing to develop our relationship with taiwan. i think that has been the main message from everyone taking the floor today. but you also convey a sense of urgency. we need to foster our engagement to make sure that taiwan preserves its democracy, freedoms and open market, and that we defend our interests and values so that the status quo remains the norm in the taiwan straits, with all the potential that you have touched upon today to be harvested.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today and the final vote tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the guidelines for state aid for climate action, energy and the environment (ceeag) (2021/2923 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, madam commissioner, honourable members, the european council has recalled several times the european union’s goal of reinforcing resilience and facilitating the green transition. by putting forward a green deal in line with the objectives set out in the paris agreement, the european union committed to making europe the world’s first climate neutral continent by 2050. in order to achieve that, it is necessary to adjust and update our regulatory framework. therefore, the reform of state aid rules in the field of climate, energy and the environment is necessary in order to enable member states to support projects that contribute to achieving climate neutrality. the council therefore welcomes the work that the commission is currently undertaking in updating state aid guidelines and is looking forward to the adoption of new rules, scheduled by the end of the year. besides empowering member states to reach the goals of the green deal and allow governments to fund, when necessary, a larger share of the cost than before, the updated guidelines will focus on new flagship areas such as biodiversity, clean mobile infrastructure and research efficiency. the reform needs to take into account the importance of balance between supporting competitiveness and growth, maintaining a level playing field in the market, achieving the eu green ambitions and the ability to adapt to the individual situation in each member state. the new rules will also have to expand the scope of the general block exemption regulation, creating new ways for governments to invest in green infrastructure without requiring the commission’s approval in advance. the council will continue to support progress towards the long—term goal of climate neutrality, as appropriate.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this opportunity to discuss the draft climate, energy and environmental protection state aid guidelines. of course, soon to be known by their abbreviation, so that we can keep it between us. now, i hope we can enable knowledge about the opportunities that the new guidelines will provide. from the simple fact that the green deal is our top priority, we need to fight climate change and we need to get the necessary resources to do so. the targets have been set. proposals have been tabled, in front of you. and the green deal is also our growth strategy. so that we can transform europe into a fair and prosperous society with a modern, resource-efficient and competitive economy. we want the transition to be just and to equip our industries with the tools to play their part in the transition. the recent spike in energy prices has demonstrated the urgency of this transition and the need to move away from fossil fuel dependency. reaching our ambitious targets involves nothing less than a transformation of the way that we power our lives. we have to make huge investments in infrastructure, in wind, in solar plants, in energy-efficient buildings, in networks that secure green mobility and in decarbonising industry. the magnitude of this investment challenge, requires mobilising both private and public funds in a way that ensures best value for money and crowds in private investment. the revision of our existing guidelines for energy and environment protection state aid will play a key role in helping member states provide adequate support to reach green deal objectives, where the markets cannot deliver alone. the new set of guidelines will provide a flexible, and we also hope, future—proof enabling framework to accompany the green deal. to that end, a number of examples as to what we do. we are proposing to broaden the scope of the guideline to facilitate support in new areas important for the green transition. this includes clean mobility, circularity, biodiversity and energy efficiency in buildings. our new guidelines would cover all technologies that can deliver the green deal, such as those for production of renewable and low-carbon hydrogen. renewable energy remains as important as ever in achieving our targets. member states continue to set up separate renewable schemes as they do today under a new, cross-cutting section on decarbonising measures. the flexibility also extends to the type of aid instruments and to the amount of aid. the draft guidelines accommodate calls by the industry to allow contracts for difference and also foresees that support may cover up to a 100% of the extra costs of greener investment – what we call the funding gap, where aid awards are based on competitive bidding. as a counterbalance to the increased flexibility, obviously we need safeguards to ensure that the aid is effectively directed to where it’s necessary to improve climate and environmental protection and is limited to what is necessary to achieve the environmental goals. those safeguards include public consultation above certain thresholds and open tenders being the general rule in most areas to ensure best value for taxpayers’ money. energy communities, they play an important role in ensuring citizen participation and, of course, also public acceptance. in line with the current case practice, it remains possible for member states to introduce specific features in their auctions to facilitate the participation of such communities in tenders, also where the thresholds for no tendering are exceeded. last but not least, we want our guidelines to work seamlessly together with and support relevant european legislation and policies in the environmental and energy field, and that also requires a coherent approach to ending subsidies for fossil fuels and particularly those which are most polluting. for those fossil fuels, the draft guidelines foresee that a positive assessment under state aid rules is unlikely in the light of the negative effects on the environment. in the same vein, we also need to avoid that support for gas in a transitional period creates lock-in effects, not compatible with the 2030 and 2050 climate targets. i would like to conclude with a few words on the process ahead of us. as you are most certainly aware, we launched a public consultation on the perpetuation of the guidelines that ended on 2 august. we received an impressive amount of contribution, more than 700, which also demonstrates the importance stakeholders and authorities attach to these guidelines. i want to say thank you for the valuable inputs and contributions also received from members of this parliament. in addition, meeting with member states took place in mid-july to collect feedback, to answer questions on the draft guidelines. in order to ensure legal certainty, our plan is still to adapt the revised guidelines by the end of the year. as you can hear, this debate is very, very well timed. in parallel, we are also undertaking a targeted revision of the general block exemption regulation. that regulation covers a wide range of state aid measures, which can be implemented without notification to the commission. we want that simplification to also be extended to investment in new technologies, such as renewable and low-carbon hydrogen and carbon capture and storage or use, and to areas that are key to achieve the objectives of the green deal; could be zero pollution, resource efficiency, biodiversity. ley provisions on clean mobility and energy performance of buildings were already introduced in july this year. in addition, the rules will be made more flexible with regard to the definition of eligible costs and aid intensities. a public consultation on the targeted revision of the block exemption regulation was launched at the beginning of this month and will run until 8 september. i am really happy that we can have this debate. as you can hear, it is really well timed and i’ll be looking forward to hearing your views.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, foreign minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! the ambitious environmental and climate targets we have set for ourselves as the european union require major transformations of our economic model. this transformation will present considerable challenges for many european companies, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises and those operating in energy-intensive sectors. we must now ask ourselves whether we want to support the european economy in this transformation or not. looking at the european commission's consultation documents for the new guidelines on climate, energy and environmental aid, i have the impression that the commission is trying to leave the european economy, and in particular small and mediumsized enterprises, in the lurch. the commission's proposal to reduce the list of eligible sectors by three quarters at the very moment when the european economy is about to undergo a millennium transformation is the wrong signal. the commission's strategy seems to be to provide the best incentives for rapid transformation by cutting back on aid as quickly and radically as possible. however, mergers will not solve the structural problems, such as the current high cost of energy or the fact that there are simply no savings in the energy-intensive sector. it's all been worked out. if we cut off the opportunities for such sectors, we will only create higher costs and less competitiveness. i therefore ask you to design the guidelines in such a way that energy-intensive production can continue to be possible... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eu has set itself the target of reducing co2 emissions by 55% by 2030 and becoming climate neutral by 2050. this will require a great effort on the part of our society and economy. the transition to climate neutrality requires significant private and public investment in new products and production processes. this technological change is not free to have and will require extensive government support. with the new guidelines on state aid for climate, energy and the environment, the commission has put forward a proposal for the necessary reform of the aid framework. i would like to emphasize two aspects in particular: the climate-neutral transformation of the economy is certainly about promoting innovation, but it is also about bringing to market already known low-carbon processes on a large-scale. we believe that the guidelines will make it possible, in principle, to promote both innovation and large-scale technology market introduction. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the environmental impact of the use of fossil fuels. however, we must also take into account that the use of fossil gas, for example, is sometimes still necessary for a transitional period, for example in the steel industry, until sufficient green hydrogen is available. that is why we need the possibility of encouraging transitions as well. however, this should be subject to two conditions: beneficiaries shall set out in binding contracts the transition steps envisaged and how and when climate neutrality is achieved through the transition process, and such transition process shall respect the principle of 'avoiding significant impacts'. the new guidelines presented by the commission are an important contribution to achieving our ambitious climate policy objectives. we therefore welcome the proposal very much and i am sure that in the course of the ongoing consultation process it will also be possible to make some further corrections.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, how can we put our public policies at the service of both the ecological transition and the social emergency? beyond our energy model, the current surge in gas and energy prices also threatens the viability of our businesses and the living conditions of the most vulnerable. everyone here, i imagine, is advocating for an acceleration of the clean energy transition. it is about our ability to absorb future shocks, while creating the conditions for shared prosperity. with this in mind, i call for a reform of the state aid guidelines. for an ecological and social future, competition policy must be aligned with the objectives of the green deal - as you said earlier, madam commissioner. this is not the case when your project allows for extensive support for gas and potentially nuclear, whereas there are far more sustainable alternatives. the commission has also been active in the fight against fraud and corruption. it is high time to impose environmental and social requirements on state aid. it is at this price that our competition policy will serve genuinely sustainable development. not a single penny of public money should be subsidising fossil fuels that endanger our future. i am at your disposal to make rapid progress on matters of vital importance to the daily lives of our citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. the new draft guidelines replace the 2014-2020 guidelines and focus more on climate objectives and less on energy security and competitiveness. and all of this is visible, of course, the effects of this are visible to the naked eye. you want to eliminate coal without taking into account the different starting points of the different countries. we're creating artificial overlays on coal, which could be the cheapest source of energy for many years to come, and so we're part of the energy transition. coal is bad. okay, but you write that gas is bad, too. and here we read that investing in natural gas does not bring a positive environmental effect. atom of course, we can also hear that he's angry. and i want to tell you that this policy will lead to a tragedy: hyperinflation, poverty, reduction of the competitiveness of our economy, the collapse of our companies and the relocation of our companies outside the european union. what we're seeing right now, the rising energy prices for everything, is just the beginning. when we warned you that the nord stream 2 investment would be terminated, you did nothing about it. and we warn again today: it's worth changing that policy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. this week, the un human rights council declared, with broad support, a new human right - the right to a healthy environment. the climate crisis, increased pollution, and the increasing destruction of biodiversity have already knocked off the legs of millions of people worldwide. according to a study by the world health organization, 24 percent of all deaths worldwide are linked to the environment, such as air pollution and chemicals. we risk having over a billion refugees as a result of the climate crisis in just a few decades. it is just as serious as any other violation of human rights. in the eu, we have now gone ahead and declared a climate emergency. a clear signal that we are serious about this climate emergency is that we are now also taking the lead and treating the right to a healthy environment as an inviolable human right.
madam president! it is obvious that we all want to breathe clean air, to live in a protected and friendly environment. it is clear as day, but the european commission's climate policy must be sustainable, because under the guise of protecting the environment we can destroy our economies. we are also ruining generations of work, bringing europe to the brink of economic collapse, and depriving it of its competitive advantage over the rest of the world. on friday, polish miners and energy workers will protest in luxembourg against the decision to stop the operation of the turów mine in lower silesia. with this decision, 15,000 people will lose their jobs overnight. how will they live? what about their children's future? one-seventh of the country will be without electricity. is this what politics is supposed to be? i don't think he did. i think that if there are even some who say that man is high-emitting, then something is wrong. this policy needs to be heavily revised. the pace must be adapted to the capabilities of the european union countries.
madam president! before i go on to discuss what will happen at the european council, i will say two things about yesterday, since you are all spending so much time on this. please leave poland alone, really, and don't spread lies and false information about what's happening in my homeland. if you haven't been to poland, please come. you'll see how beautiful, safe and, above all, democratically governed this country is. and let's stop this nonsense, because instead of focusing on the issues that are important to europeans, you are debating nothing for another day. and yet there are a great many problems in europe to be solved, and europeans have a right to expect that the european parliament will finally take up their cause. one of the big issues that needs to be spoken about is the energy crisis and what's in store for all europeans when they have to pay very high bills for electricity, for heating. why did that happen? the european parliament is not reacting to the blackmail of gazprom and is uncritically approving of what gazprom is doing in europe. nord stream 2 after all, it is your decisions that have caused us this problem today.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i was actually going to come back to speak about energy prices this morning, as many of my colleagues have done, but i decided to make a few remarks on the course of events after the debate. i have heard this morning from the right wing of the house a lot of criticism of the state of the eu and the stark thesis that they - the eu - and their mistakes over the last 30 years are to blame for this crisis. i may be misinformed, but as far as i know, all the countries have joined the eu voluntarily. no one was forced. they all signed a treaty which the member states themselves drew up and adopted unanimously. and if the european institutions now demand that these treaties be respected, are they being aggressive? the member states are the ones who are really making the mistakes. we cannot join this alliance of states which want to enjoy the benefits of the internal market, freedom of movement and the cohesion funds and then, of course, do whatever we want. because the eu is not disneyland. the european council now has the chance to finally show its ability to act on the energy price crisis. i would ask mrs von der leyen to ensure that the european council does not become a coffee-drinking society. the citizens expect it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, whatever you say and do about poland, i will defend my country, always. on energy prices, please try to lower our dependence on russia rather than trying to appease this country. in this respect, i think that the eastern partnership summit is extremely important. it should be ambitious, supportive to our partners, but also seeing difficulties and dangers clearly. in this respect, i would like to turn to georgia and please speak up for the detained former president of georgia, mikhail saakashvili.
madam president! on 7 october, the european parliament adopted another resolution on the situation in belarus, calling on the european council to implement the next sanctions package and prepare a strategy. tomorrow you will meet and i would like to ask from this place how things stand on this issue, which concerns the security of not only the inhabitants of belarus. as we know, the situation there is unfortunately getting more and more difficult: at least 812 political prisoners, people are being murdered and persecuted, a plane flying the flag of the european union has been hijacked, and the european union has still not implemented an effective sanctions mechanism against the lukashenka regime. i would therefore like to ask the minister what the council intends to do about this. - howdy, whitey!
madam president! fellow workers! today, europeans expect two things from the european commission, the european union: border security and energy security. so i hope that the european council will send the following messages: first, that poland is properly protecting the european border, and will support it every day and every step of the way. and secondly, that he will decide to revise the ets so that energy prices do not skyrocket (this is the fault of the price of carbon dioxide emission allowances, which has increased almost fourfold in the last two years), to revise the package "fit for 55" (because it is badly written, badly calculated, it will cause the prices, which are so high today, to increase many times), as well as the fact that it is necessary to block nord stream 2. two groups are blocking this: the s&ds and the epp. they're the ones working with putin.
in writing. the progressive development and distribution of safe and effective covid-19 vaccines is a lasting solution and an appropriate response to the pandemic. achieving the highest possible vaccination coverage is essential for epidemic safety, while achieving population resistance is crucial to prevent the epidemic risk of the next pandemic. actively promote programmes that allow vaccination outside health facilities, establish vaccination points in pharmacies, shopping centres and drive-thru centres. vaccination must be available in workplaces, institutions supporting disabled people and schools. mobile vaccination points and outbound vaccination points are the most important for vaccinating hard-to-reach populations. the pandemic is a problem that must be tackled in solidarity by starting the process of sharing vaccines with third countries. i support transactions with both european and non-european countries for the transfer of vaccines and i particularly welcome the news that poland has also committed to coordinate the transfer of vaccines by eu countries to the eastern partnership countries. i am aware of the enormous challenges associated with the transfer of vaccines due to the fact that the apas contain restrictions on the territory of distribution and the possibility of transferring vaccines, and therefore i expect the full support of the ec in this respect in order to ensure that this complex process can be carried out in accordance with the law.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. at the eu climate summit, europe must not only be a leader, but above all, it must be credible, because only then can it convince us that it is right, that it has ambitions. it's plausible for two reasons. first, when he says that he has the europeans behind him, that he has the citizens behind him, that he has told his citizens that they will pay many times more for energy, for heat, for gas, for water, for the price of airline tickets, for cars, for housing. if we get that approval, then we're credible, and the "fit for 55" package tells the citizen, the european, that you're going to pay, we're not going to help you at all, and there's little evidence of how much that translates into emissions, how much that translates into environmental protection. second, we will be credible if we look for all the possible methods, both those that are and those that are yet to come. i therefore do not understand why there are no provisions in the commission's, the european union's or the european parliament's position on absorbers and artificial interceptors. these are new technologies that actually capture carbon dioxide emissions, which is in line with the ipcc report. if we can make the case for this at the climate summit, if we can prove it, then we'll be credible, then we'll be a real leader.
mr president, commissioner and minister, i'm sorry to hear that. i think that concern for the climate, for clean air, and for preparing the next generation for a safe future, is something that we all share. that, i think, is not a problem. i think the idea that should also unite us is that we should be efficient and pragmatic in our pursuit. because only efficiency will make us credible in our message. because when we look - and this has been said here many times - at the contribution of the individual continents and the industrialized countries to climate change, we must humbly acknowledge that if we do not convince the big countries, the big economies - like china, the united states, brazil, russia and we can exchange ... or india - then unfortunately we will not be effective in climate change and we will not achieve the goal that we rightly set for ourselves here. so i ask our representatives: what arguments do we have - not a message, but arguments - to convince the countries of the world that we can win this concern for the climate, for clean air, and that we can be effective and credible?
madam president, the concern of the eu and the european parliament about the rise of the far right and racism in europe is hypocritical. the european union and its governments are trying to create a miserable fabrication of two extremes, namely the equation between communism and the monster of fascism, the falsification of history, anti-communism and the banning of communist parties. these feed and wash both the extreme right and the fascist forces. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat racism, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the attacks by far-right and fascist elements in rome, as well as the murderous action of fascist criminal groups in greece, are supported by the mechanisms of the bourgeois state and police forces and are covered up by government officials. one year after the conviction of the criminal and nazi golden dawn, it is outrageous that its leaders are being released. no complacency here. fascism and the system that gave birth to it, capitalism, have in common the power of monopolies. the peoples with their organization and struggle have the power to isolate these gangs and eliminate the causes that give rise to fascism.
madam president! look how still functional, how well-kept in our century, is hatred. how lightly she takes the high hurdles, how easy it is for her to jump, to catch. the words of the song by polish singer hanna banaszak are gaining momentum in more and more places around the world. the people of washington, rome, and warsaw are just some of the many victims of terrorism, of stupidity, of aggression, which targets not only buildings, institutions, and order, but above all knowledge, authority, reason, and human solidarity. neither the man dressed as a bison looting the capitol, nor the blackshirts in rome attacking the offices of the trade unions, nor even the so-called "patriots" silencing the participants of the warsaw uprising have an agenda, a vision, a goal other than chaos and destruction. the barbarians of the 21st century don't even try to debate, they think the shape of the world should be decided by the argument of force. our community was built on the ashes and rubble of a europe of hatred. we must not forget this. there's no room for any historical reassumption here. when vandals light a fire in our living room and use our family heirlooms as firewood, we can't just stand by and watch. we all have to be able to stand up to this together. as marian turski, who was deported to the litzmannstadt ghetto during world war ii and later imprisoned in auschwitz, said: "europe, don't be indifferent, because if you don't, you won't even look at yourself, because some auschwitz will suddenly fall on you, on your inhabitants . . . "
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. fellow workers! the report contains many valuable ideas and solutions, but unfortunately there are a few that raise serious doubts and that should be mentioned. first, there is a lack of accurate analysis and solutions, and above all, information on how much companies in the european union have already done to achieve different kinds of results. this is noteworthy because this work has been going on for many, many years. secondly, however, the proposal for a legally binding act is questionable. why would you do that? because there are already solutions. we're working on the "fit for 55" package together. we've actually started this work, and in some of the papers, the solutions to methane are already there. there's really no need for red tape. third, there is no funding. we can't pass another bill that's just an idea without funding. and finally, without global solutions, we're not really going to be able to do this. i don't know if you know, but the nord stream 2 project, which is supported by two groups, the s&d and the epp, has been tested by the copernicus satellite, among others, and we have systematically seen huge methane leaks. we are responsible for this because we, the european union, are involved in the construction of nord stream 2.
madam president, we all know that global warming is the challenge of our time, and after carbon, methane is key among the gases that we need to address. but if we are to solve the methane problem, we need to recognise the different sources of methane and the different approaches needed. biogenic methane is just one of the key sources that needs to be addressed. science recognises that biogenic methane is essentially a 12-year cycle, and we need to reduce the amount of methane being produced in that cycle by the animals, as opposed to an ideological and unrealistic position of eliminating the animals altogether. research and technology has shown us that we have tools. things like dietary supplements, advances in breeding, manure management and greater use of pasture based systems can be key to solving the problem. i’ve put forward sensible, constructive, practical solutions that could create the framework to allow this to happen. farmers also want to play their part. they are probably closer to nature than anybody. for most farmers, their love of nature and the environment is the very reason why they became farmers in the first place. i believe farmers who are closest to the problem are best placed to solve the problem, but we have to give them the tools and the chance to get on with it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. yes, methane is an efficient, unfortunately very efficient greenhouse gas, and yes, reduction is of course an important goal. but i think the debate we're having here has to be based on scientific facts as well. so you have to look at where the methane comes from. does it come from animals? if it comes from animals, does it come from farm animals or does it come from wild animals that also exist in nature, or does it come from other factors like methane gas used for energy? as i have said many times in this debate, methane will, fortunately, be decomposed in our atmosphere in 10 to 12 years. so the question is whether the stock is being increased. if it is not increased, then this methane is in a cycle of about 12 years. and the increase in livestock, which unfortunately has also occurred in the world, is taking place mainly outside the european union. if you look at how livestock populations have changed over the last decade, in some parts of the world, but not in the european union, livestock populations have exploded, and this is certainly where we need to start. but i think you also have to get out of the mindset that we only see methane alone. and we should also remember that animals use grass, that animals use permanent grassland, that permanent grassland is also a very important factor for photosynthesis to take place, so that co2 -- another important greenhouse gas -- can be reabsorbed and carbon can be bound to it. so, yeah, you have to deal with it. but not if it's just about demonizing animal husbandry, meat or dairy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in fact, methane emissions have been neglected for far too long, and they are very dangerous in the short and medium term because of their strong impact on the climate. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we take effective action quickly. i am therefore, frankly, a little disappointed that the commission is not going to come forward with legislative proposals until december, which it has been promising for years. the more so now, commissioner, that this trial must be suspended. the international effort to avoid methane is good and necessary. but there is more to come from the european side. the global methane assessment shows that we can avoid 45% of the methane in the world by 2030 at little cost. that must be our aim, and above all we need a rapid reduction, including in the energy sector. there is a gap which we must look at, and that is the agricultural sector, which accounts for 40% of emissions. finally, it is not only necessary to reduce methane from a climate point of view, but also from a health point of view. because dangerous ozone is produced in the ground, killing hundreds of thousands of people worldwide each year. we have to work on that, too. i hope we will succeed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as a european parliament, we are always good at setting ambitious targets. but i want to talk about concrete measures, particularly in relation to methane emissions in agriculture, because there is some good news. one study shows that technological progress alone can significantly reduce emissions in agriculture, through three possible tools. firstly, the use of additives in animal feed, the adaptation of the diet of cattle, could significantly reduce methane. there's a lot of research on this. we should simply put it into practice. secondly, low-emission methane breeding could significantly reduce emissions. and thirdly - as some colleagues have already said - the preservation of greenland is not only important for carbon storage, biodiversity or beautiful grazing landscapes for tourism, but is also of particular importance for the climate by feeding ruminants and the considerable co2 savings achieved by the provision of climate-friendly biogas as an energy source. in addition to the innovations, i think we should have a debate on the different calculation of fossil and biogenic methane. i would ask the commission to look into this.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their interventions. most of these relate to the three most important sectors for methane emissions, and therefore i will also reply on these three sectors. as concerns energy, many of you mentioned this. many of the issues mentioned, and also included in the report, such as the call to establish binding rules on the measuring, reporting and verification of methane emissions and mandatory leak detection and repair, are planned to be covered in our december legislative proposal. at this very moment, with the high energy prices, i think that it is also important to note that the higher the gas prices, the higher the cost—effectiveness of the measures to mitigate methane emissions is, because methane should be used as a natural product rather than escaping to the atmosphere. on the international side, the international methane emissions observatory (imeo) will provide reliable data on methane emissions and will therefore represent a powerful tool to drive global action to reduce global methane emissions. the global methane pledge, as a joint eu—us initiative, represents a strong outcome of our renewed transatlantic agenda to continue and strengthen our cooperation on climate change and decarbonisation of energy. it includes a commitment to move towards using the best available inventory methodologies to quantify methane emissions, with a particular focus on high emission sources. as concerns the environmental legislation, we are reviewing the industrial emissions directive, the sewage sludge directive, the urban waste water treatment directive and the landfill directive. although it is too early to go into more details, i hope that, during the review process, we will be able to address most of the issues mentioned in the report. as concerns agriculture, the current common agricultural policy is supporting mitigation actions for methane reduction in the livestock sector, mainly through the pillar ii rural development programming. this includes investments for the modernisation of animal housing, the creation of local innovation groups with farmers and specific thematic focus groups of the european innovation partnership on methane emission reduction and carbon sequestration in grasslands. the eu soil strategy also has the potential to become a milestone in eu policies related to a healthy environment in the long run. the legislative ecosystem represented by the green deal will, directly and indirectly, affect millions of lives and jobs in all sectors, and the commission is particularly careful to ensure a fair and just green transition for all, especially vulnerable groups in the energy, agri—food and other sectors. in the post-2020 cap, member states will have the possibility to design a specific combination of interventions, reducing emissions from agriculture. still, rural development programmes will be the main tool for supporting investment, innovation, and knowledge transfer advisory services. finally, as already mentioned, the commission is encouraging member states to include methane reduction schemes in their strategic plans for the cap. thank you for bringing to my attention many important issues concerning the reduction of methane emissions in your interventions today and, of course, in the report. i am pleased to see that our level of ambition in reducing methane emissions is very much aligned. therefore, i am looking forward to continue working on this topic with parliament.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank all colleagues for their comments and say frankly that i was trying to take into account their concerns, especially when they were based on scientific evidence. i have to try to do my best in this long process. following the recent climate agreement with the us, it is our best hope in the eu to be able to lead the world in the right direction. it is now the time to suggest and negotiate a binding global agreement on methane mitigation at the cop26 meeting in glasgow in line with the model pathways that limit global warming to 1.5°c from the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) special report, the ipcc sixth assessment report and the 2021 united nations environment programme (unep) global methane assessment. in this regard, it is of paramount importance to proceed with immediate and rapid reductions in methane emissions, paying attention to economic and social sustainability and, in this decade, it is one of the effective measures for the eu climate action. methane emission reduction complements the necessary reductions in carbon dioxide emissions and many of the emission cuts required by the paris agreement and could already be achieved with low cost, as the commission said, and technically feasible methane mitigation. commissioner, we fully endorse your approach and your arguments on methane reduction in the energy sector and we are looking forward to our cooperation. when it comes to the agriculture sector, i would like just to repeat that it is included in the report as it is important to establish a framework which incentivises and rewards farmers along with the entire value chain and especially frontrunners for their effort. i would like to kindly ask all of you, dear colleagues, here in this house on this day, to vote in favour and to support the eu strategy to reduce methane emission. now we should not think about the next election, but above all, about the next generation.
this conversation is over. the amendments will be voted on today and the final vote will be on thursday, 21 october 2021. perhaps you could go outside and talk, since you have so much to say. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. agriculture is cited as the main source of methane emissions in the eu (53%), followed by the waste sector (26%) and energy (19%). at the same time, we have to take into account the different effects on the atmosphere of biogenic methane from ruminants and methane from fossil fuels, and we have to assess them differently. in addition, we must not forget that agriculture holds enormous potential for reducing harmful emissions through investments in innovation, new feed additives, improved breeding and genetics, grazing, integrated manure management, production of biogas from agricultural waste, etc. in this respect, agriculture is part of the solution and good livestock management practices can lead to a 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. to do that, we need to work with farmers, not against them, to reduce meat consumption and reduce animal husbandry. this production is vital for the preservation of rural communities and is an important source of employment in rural areas. farmers should have the necessary tools and financial incentives to implement carbon and methane capture practices in order to further reduce emissions in agriculture.
in writing. the european union's target of reducing all greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 includes methane emissions. methane is the second most important cause of climate change, after carbon dioxide. in this fight, the eu needs partners. without global efforts and international cooperation, this battle is already lost, as a significant part of global methane emissions comes from outside the eu. increased methane emissions affect biodiversity and agricultural production, while reducing methane emissions, together with the use of existing technologies, can provide multiple benefits, including better crop yields. the eu can limit emissions from agriculture through technological innovation, as well as incentives and partnerships with farmers. without financial incentives, european farmers will not be able to cope with the new european conditionalities and policies, and food security may be put at risk. the eu must ensure a level playing field for european producers and imports from third countries must meet the same standards. it is imperative to ensure a fair transition for all sectors where reductions in methane emissions can have a socio-economic impact, so as to avoid the relocation of economic and agricultural activities outside the european union.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the first anniversary of the effective abolition of abortion in poland (2021/2925 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, abortion and reproductive rights are a highly sensitive and complex issue across europe, from both ethical and legal perspectives. they touch upon some of the most fundamental questions. the european council of human rights consistently ruled that member states enjoy a wide margin of appreciation as to whether, and under what circumstances, abortion is permitted under their national law. as far as the european union is concerned, primary law confirms that union law does not interfere with constitutional provisions and other national legislation of the member state relating to abortion. in accordance with article 168(7) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, union action in the field of public health should respect the responsibilities of member states for the definition of their health policy and for the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care. in this context, the european pillar of social rights states that everyone has the right to timely access to affordable, preventive and corrective health care of good quality.
member of the commission. – madam president, one year ago, the ruling of the polish constitutional court on abortion, resulting in a near—total ban on abortion, sparked a wave of protests in poland. the eu has no competence on abortion rights within a member state. legislation in this area is up to the member state concerned. when making use of their competences, member states must respect fundamental rights, which bind them by virtue of their national constitutions and commitments under international law. the european court of human rights has recognised the lack of access to abortion services as a violation of the right to family and private life. all women across the eu should have equal access to good quality healthcare and treatment. sexual and reproductive health is integral to our general health. we hear of situations in poland, such as unsafe underground abortions, women with financial means going abroad to have abortions, but without medical follow up at home, and even more difficult situations arising for women in a vulnerable position. the covid—19 pandemic has made the reality even more challenging. women’s rights are a gauge for the overall situation of fundamental rights. high-quality sexual and reproductive health services are essential to women and girls, as well as for men and boys. while often any reference to sexual and reproductive health and rights is quickly linked to abortion, they also cover issues such as contraception, education, prevention, treatment of hiv and other sexually transmitted diseases, as well as fertility and sex-specific cancers. these rights are core to gender equality. the commission continues to monitor the developments in all member states regarding gender equality. we encourage member states to safeguard women’s equal access to good quality healthcare services.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. we know that abortion, health care are matters for the member states, and we are not here to change the law. nevertheless, i think that a signal is needed from this house, we need this discussion addressed to polish women, that we know about their problems, that we know them and we support them warmly from this place. once again, we are talking about polish women in this forum on the anniversary of the politicised constitutional court ruling that de facto bans abortion. and i want to say this very strongly: no ban will limit the number of procedures, no ban will make women want to be mothers. the polish government is trying to force women into heroism without proper understanding of their problems and support. i repeat once again that no politician can be the conscience of polish women, or women in general. if we look at the statistics, in poland in 2019, as many as 98% of abortion procedures had a medical basis due to irreversible fetal defects. unfortunately, the poles were denied the opportunity to choose, and we know that no law, order, or even allowance will change the deep-rooted virtues of modern women. it is sad that it is not the polish government but the governments of other member countries: the czech republic, belgium, the scandinavian countries and the kingdom of the netherlands are lending a helping hand to the poles. poland is becoming a hostile country to mothers, and pregnancy is fraught with risk and fear. a lot of polish women have trouble getting pregnant. when infertility is considered a social disease, the polish government closes down in vitro programs, which have not only been a huge success, but also a chance for many parents to have their own offspring. in addition, the government fails to address the issue of access to prenatal testing, adequate antenatal care, not to mention adequate support and assistance for families raising children with disabilities, and much-needed sex education. as a woman and a politician, i will always defend the rights of polish women, because i know that without the right solutions to guarantee knowledge, support and the possibility of choosing instead of conscious pregnancies, we will witness despair and human tragedies. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. - madam president! - i have to go. we're defending lives, the lives of women. with that slogan, the poles will take to the streets again. against the taking away of dignity, for the right of every woman to decide her own life. we must have the courage to say in this room that abortion is simply a medical procedure. abortion is a human right. abortion is okay. without the right to abortion there is no equality in the union, there is no cohesion policy. it's been a year since the constitutional court's decision. has the commission looked for solutions? or was it more comfortable to drop the subject and cover up your incompetence? commissioner, if jurisdiction is a barrier to you, it's time for a debate on jurisdiction changes and legislative proposals. it is time for the commission to unconditionally stand with women, to support the brave polish women who have consistently protested in the streets for years despite hatred, repression, at the expense of their private and professional lives.
madam president! the women's hell is on. kaczynski sealed the women's verdict a year ago. poland has become a de facto patriarchal religious state, in which polish women, like the heroines of a nursery tale, are deprived of voice and reduced to the role of incubator. it's appalling barbarism and government-sanctioned torture. unfortunately, the religiously and politically fundamentalist polish taliban are not stopping there. another bill has just been introduced in the sejm, which will treat forced abortion in case of danger to the health and life of a woman as murder. and he's facing life in prison for it. unfortunately, this has led to the fact that today, in 2021, poles have fewer rights than when poland joined the european union. so, commissioner, when you, as the commission, say that you cannot do anything, today you can do it because the rights of women, polish women, who are also citizens of this community, the european union, have been de facto restricted. and from this room today -- and this is our duty, not just political, not just legal, but moral -- we have to send a clear message to the women in this room today: you will never walk alone again. we're with you!
yesterday, during the debate on poland, st. john paul ii was invoked. allow me to quote one of the many statements made by the polish pope, for whom the protection of life was one of the key themes of his teaching. an unborn child is also a human being. moreover, christ identifies himself in a privileged way with the least. how can we fail to see his special presence in the unborn, the truly smallest, the weakest, the most defenseless, the most voiceless, the most unable to protest against the attacks on its most basic rights? when the state does not use its power to serve the rights of the weakest, the foundations of the rule of law are threatened. poland will uphold the rule of law. we will not be forced to accept a leftist dictate. we will defend the rights of the unborn and we will keep repeating that the responsibility for the organisation of health care systems and health care is the responsibility of the member states.
madam president! the pseudo-procedural majority in the european parliament is celebrating today the anniversary of the decriminalization of eugenic abortion in poland. i understand that the culture of death you celebrate needs games like this. there are women in your circle who call abortion a human right. according to this logic, murdered children have no rights, and therefore are not human. during that year, many children were born in poland who would not have had the chance to do so two years ago. so i ask you, do you have anything to say to these women who are holding their babies and are happy? would they be happy if today they could only remember the abortion nightmare? to all the polish and european women who have given birth this year, i want to say one thing: you will never regret choosing love. in a few years, your children will tell you the same thing: mom, i love you and thank you for being here! thank you for letting me live!
the next item is the council and commission statements on the return of migrants at the external borders of the european union (2021/2932 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! let me begin by thanking all the officials, from spain, from ceuta to italy, greece, bulgaria and romania, and finally the polish border guard and the polish police, because it is on their shoulders that the responsibility lies today for allowing you here today, in strasbourg or in brussels, to make sometimes unwise statements in plenary sessions, so that you can be safe. that's the first one. second, let's get this discussion in order. namely, people trying to cross the border illegally are staying on the territory of belarus - i refer to the situation in my country - legally. i emphasize they are in belarus legally. this status enables them to present themselves at border crossing points in order to apply for international protection. it is therefore reasonable to assume that they are deliberately choosing to cross the border illegally. the parents of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, also those mothers of these children, those mothers of these children, those mothers of these children, those mothers of these mothers, those mothers of these mothers, those mothers of these mothers, those mothers of these mothers, those mothers of these mothers, only about 44% of migrants currently in the border guard's secure facilities for foreigners have applied for international protection. most of the detainees declare their desire to travel to western europe, germany, the netherlands and belgium. ask the people of berlin, munich, madrid, do they want these illegal migrants - not refugees - illegal migrants? it should always be borne in mind that although the term 'push-back' is a term used in the context of migration, it does not arise from the legal order. so we shouldn't use that term in a legal context, whether we're obeying the law or not, because it's journalistic language. poland's actions are aimed at preventing "push-in" migrants who are being used by the belarusian regime to collect from these illegal migrants between 10 and 15 thousand dollars to legally enter belarus. and you're all just talking some uncreated gibberish.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the protection of the external borders is one of our fundamental tasks. if there is to be safe free movement within the schengen area, we have no choice but to ensure the security of the external border 100%. i think that's what the countries on the outer border of the european union are trying to do, and they're not having an easy time of it. croatia is facing a lot of pressure, and i trust the croatian government to ensure security and also to respect the human rights of refugees. i expect that the hungarian-serbian border will also be rigorously protected, but at the same time allow the entry of refugees who are entitled to international protection. the international forces, including those coming from the member states, including the czech republic, will undoubtedly help hungary in this endeavour, and i believe that frontex will also be back, which should help hungary. i have personally visited greece and have seen that conditions have improved considerably. the current greek government has the situation under control. it combines rigor, consistency and the necessary humanity with respect for human dignity. she has managed to transfer unaccompanied children from reception centres to shelters and mainly to the mainland and tries to provide them with adequate care including education. a lot of the work here is done by the nonprofit sector, and i want to thank them. the return policy and the length of time for processing asylum have also been improved. poland and the baltic states are facing a difficult situation. the refugees are being used by lukashenko as weapons against the eu. we must reject this blackmail. i understand how hard it is for refugees, but they too must know the truth, what games they've gotten into, and who they're supposed to serve. poland and the baltic states have our full support in protecting their borders.
chairman of the committee, distinguished colleagues. the belarusian authorities organise the criminal and systematic export of deceived and defrauded third-country nationals to the european union. if you want to hear from me, this is 21st century slavery in the truest sense of the word. lukashenko is using the policy of pushing migrants. his regime exploits migrants and cynically blames lithuania or poland. there's an undeclared war on the lithuanian border. every night on the belarusian side we hear gunshots. migrants who are deceived are forced to use drawing tools. in the face of a hybrid attack, lithuania is doing everything to fulfil its obligations. we already know and respect, but it has the right to defend itself against the evil acts of the lukashenka regime and to protect its sovereign territory. the crimes against humanity and the exploitation of third country nationals committed by the regime in lukashenka must be assessed by an international court. and i hope we all live to see that day.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. poland is in the crosshairs of belarus, and my country is in a hybrid war. the actions of minsk were prepared and developed in moscow. they are aimed at destabilising the whole of central europe and at damaging the reputation of the polish services protecting the external border of the union, for which i would like to thank them very warmly here. unfortunately, fake news has become a permanent part of the architecture of disinformation used by the russians. hence so much negative information about poland's actions on the border with belarus. i wanted to emphasize that poland's actions are aimed at preventing push-in, not push-back, illegal border crossing by migrants who are being instrumentally used by the belarusian regime and forced to cross the eastern border. poland complies with all international rules. poland sent aid, humanitarian convoys, which were brutally stopped by the lukashenka regime. they don't want to help these people who are being exploited. as a community, we cannot allow ourselves to be divided and we must all stand shoulder to shoulder with the polish border guard and the army. commissioner, thank you for all your efforts and support, because this is important. commissioner, in order for our actions to be effective and to protect the borders, it is necessary to send the appropriate funds as soon as possible to poland, latvia and lithuania to build a permanent, efficient security system on the eastern border. the construction of such a security was announced and undertaken by warsaw, the government in poland.
madam president, the real problem facing europe in the field of migration is clear: our laws are not respected and our borders are violated on a daily basis. according to the european commission, in 2019, only one third of illegal immigrants who were asked to return to their country of origin actually did so. and in france, in my country, this year alone, one out of every eight illegal immigrants and one out of every nine rejected asylum seekers actually went back to their country of origin. this great weakness has two consequences. first, it discourages all law-abiding europeans from continuing to do so. on the other hand, it serves the cause of legal immigrants, genuine refugees, researchers, doctors or students who deserve to be welcomed with dignity. zero immigration does not exist and it would be to deprive ourselves of the human wealth which, over the course of history, has shaped european identity and civilisation. but accepting uncontrolled immigration is pure folly and breaks the legitimacy of the european project. i therefore call on the european union not to shake its hand and to be respected... (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president! this story happened last week in poland. after midnight, a group of kurds were stopped by the border guard. the migrants declared that they wanted to apply for international protection, but they were deported, pushed back to the forest on the belarusian side. the ground temperature fluctuated around minus five degrees celsius. among the migrants were four children: alaa, awin, aland, and jwanko. this is putin's cruelty and putin's game, which unfortunately the pis government is legalizing. first, it's inhumane no one should be left to fend for themselves in the cold forest, especially children. secondly, it is illegal, contrary to the geneva convention, the european convention on human rights and the polish constitution. the term "push-back" is a euphemism that does not convey the suffering of a frozen and frightened man in a dark forest. torture on the polish-belarusian border must end! we need international help! and i'll say it again in this room poland is not pis! and i agree with the commissioner: the union's borders are sealed - yes, but humanitarian aid - even more so!
dear chair, dear commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, with the latest developments on the eastern borders of the european union, it is becoming clear that migrants have become a powerful weapon in geopolitical strategies. croatia's border has been under constant pressure from migrants for the past six years and the croatian police are doing a great job protecting croatian and european union territory. we remain, of course, concerned that migrants are not crossing the border at official border crossings, and i advocate a clear distinction between people in need of international protection and migrants seeking better life opportunities in europe. ladies and gentlemen, so far, over 3,000 people smugglers have been arrested at the croatian border. it's a serious business for them. in 2020, almost 30 000 illegal border crossing attempts were prevented. we have invested over 200 million euros in strengthening border controls, and some 7,000 croatian police officers will guard the european union's border. ladies and gentlemen, the republic of croatia is also protecting your border, the border of the european union in a legal manner.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the parliament for this debate. i feel the same urgency and deep concern that many of you have expressed today. behind each report of pushbacks is a potential threat to the right to asylum, a right we need to protect. the number and the continuity of the reports is alarming. i repeat, there can be no normalisation or legislation or pushbacks in the european union. it’s also important to stress that every day, every night, border guards, policemen, policewomen are protecting our external borders in compliance with eu law and fundamental rights. so when we rightly criticise pushbacks and urge each member state to thoroughly investigate allegations and take actions, to establish the facts and trust, we should also thank all brave border guards and policemen and women in their everyday work. they show that there are no contradiction in strong protection of our external borders and strong protection of our values. some voices in this debate argue that we have to choose between protecting our external borders and our treaty. it’s simply not true. our priority is to save lives, and to save lives we must stop lukashenko and the belarus regime. many of you have raised the unprecedented hybrid attack from the belarus regime and i fully agree. as i said earlier last week, the last plenary session, i outlined our eu actions against lukashenko. this monday, belarus was on the agenda for the foreign affairs council. later this week it will be on the agenda for the european council. we need to step up our outreach to partners where belarus has introduced new visa-free regimes to egypt, to iran, to pakistan. we must cooperate with authorities or partners so that they warn their citizens of what really awaits them. and the eu continues discussion on expanding its sanctions against belarus. and i must also say that the best way to avoid false reports on what’s going on at our external borders is transparency. we need transparency to build trust. the situation for migrants on the greek islands was also raised. as i said earlier, i expect the greek government to thoroughly investigate reports on violent pushbacks and set up an independent monitoring mechanism. but let me also stress the important progress that had been made in greece when it comes to migration. when i took office almost two years ago, there were 42 000 migrants living on the greek islands under unacceptable living conditions. and i know this was a concern for many of you and it was for me as well. this has been one of the priorities and now we have totally changed the situation. it’s now 4000 migrants living on the greek islands and in greece, there are new, efficient and fair asylum processes in place, and there are improved facilities. all member states should follow croatia and establish an independent monitoring mechanism, and above all, we need to get an agreement on the pact to protect our borders, to prevent pushbacks and to uphold fundamental rights and to never allow pushbacks to be normalised.
the chairman of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i believe that today's debate was very useful, also because it shows the urgent need for the member states to coordinate as soon as possible on the new pact on migration and asylum. the instrumentalisation of migration that we are facing and unfortunately will continue to face in the future is undoubtedly creating a number of challenges. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 october adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. in protecting their borders and the eu's external borders, member states must strictly respect eu and international law, including the protection of human rights and the prohibition of refoulement. we need to act together at different levels to counter the exploitation of migration for political purposes. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that all actions in this regard are also lawful. thank you again for the discussion today.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the baltic countries have been directly confronted with attacks of a hybrid nature. the minsk regime exploits refugees in attacks not only against the baltic states but also against the european union as a whole. it is not only countries around the eu's external border that are facing pressure from the belarusian regime in this hybrid attack. there are further, deeper moves towards the eu. this situation only highlights once again the need for effective border management in our eu. effective external border control is essential to prevent security risks. illegal border crossings and possible pressure from migrants must be tackled. the situation on the borders of lithuania, latvia and poland is unprecedented. on the other side of the wall is a violent, illegal regime. the belarusian regime does not care about human life. people pay huge sums of money to make it easier to cross the border into the eu. belarusian border guards are quickly changing their approach from helping migrants cross the border to forcibly preventing them from returning. our priority is to save lives. to save lives, we must stop the regime. it is therefore necessary not only to discuss further sanctions against the regime, but also to take concrete action at eu level to bring the situation under control.
in writing. in 2015, hungary proved that if there is enough political will, illegal migration can be stopped. hungary then built a fence and changed its legislation to end the massive abuse of asylum rules. since then, we have been criticized, even though many member states are now following the hungarian example. six years later, migration is as big a problem as it was then. in fact, more and more immigrants are trying to cross the external borders of the union. now the borders of poland, lithuania, and latvia are also besieged by illegal immigrants. the majority on the left, on the other hand, are doing nothing but undermining the efforts of member states to protect their external borders with fabricated accusations and lies. their plan to turn europe into a continent of immigrants seems to remain rock-solid. they have continued to impose mandatory allocation quotas on member states. it is unacceptable that members of the left want to criminalize the fact that member states are defending their borders. it is important to emphasise that the border is there to serve, and border guards are there to prevent illegal border crossings that threaten the security of a member state. and we should not forget that they are doing so not only to ensure their own security, but also that of the union as a whole and of all its citizens. not slander and lecturing, but thanks for your efforts!
in writing. - i'm not going to tell you. fellow workers! i listened to the debate with great interest today! i feel that we are currently focusing too much on protecting the eu's external borders and forgetting the humanitarian aspect. and people are dying at the eu's doorstep again! especially in the context of the situation on the polish-belarusian border, we have to act in two ways. yes, the successive sanctions against the lukashenka regime, the independent monitoring mechanism and the transparency of the polish government's actions are all extremely important elements leading to the end of the so-called hybrid war of neighboring countries, which use the lives of innocent people to demonstrate their power. but today, we should focus on the humanitarian aspect. international humanitarian law is clear that any person whose life is in danger has the right to leave their country of origin and apply for international protection. at the eu's external border, this law is being repeatedly violated. it's not just poland, but also greece, italy and spain. since 2015, we have been discussing the solidarity of member states in the context of migration. the eu, which does not react and does not put pressure on poland or greece to stop returns without first verifying the asylum application, is also breaking the law and is partly responsible for the deaths of migrants. talking about funding for better border security, including walls, is just a violation of basic human rights and international conventions.
in writing. – the eu’s external border regions, especially islands, have been hard hit by a crisis in tourism, exacerbated by mounting energy and transport prices. meanwhile, still no really coherent, long-term eu support is available when it comes to dealing with the incessant waves of migration of the last two decades. mediterranean islands are often left alone to cope with the bursts of irregular migration. in no way could this excuse any disregard for the human rights of those attempting to cross over towards the european continent. yet, lectures about what should be done from mainland europe (not least by armchair goodie-goodies) without the offer of a structured and permanent form of help cannot be taken seriously. while condemning without reservations any abuse of the human rights of immigrants and totally deploring the loss of lives of immigrants irregularly attempting to enter europe, one must repeat that the real problem is the following: on this issue, eu policymakers lack solutions that apply for all of europe. moreover, europe has to come clean on what it is really doing to combat the people trafficking that is feeding the supply chains which push people towards desperate journeys across the mediterranean and elsewhere. is europe turning a blind eye to this ghastly criminal activity?
in writing. a safe boundary is one where no one dies. so the eu's borders are not safe not in poland, where at least seven people have already died from the cold, according to media reports. how many people have died because of the state of emergency and the lack of access to information for the media and civil society? how many people have been pushed out of their country, preventing them from applying for refugee status? how many people are not guaranteed the protection of their fundamental rights to water, food and shelter, access to a lawyer, and the necessary medical care? it looks like a war a war of the polish authorities with a group of refugees and refugees in need of help. after the war on women, on lgbtq people, has the government found a new enemy? is this a new argument for the politics of fear, division and building walls? in 2020, poland issued almost 600 thousand residence permits to third-country nationals. at the same time, according to the propaganda message, several thousand people fleeing from war, persecution, hunger, trying to cross the border with belarus, are falfal, crisis and element of hybrid war. the european court of human rights of the council of europe has already responded by issuing interim measures. when will the european union react?
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on the humanitarian situation in haiti following the recent earthquake (2021/2931 (rsp)).
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
this is a closed session. it will resume at 8.30 tomorrow morning, starting with the announcement of the results of the second part of today's vote. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website. i wish you a good night.
mr president, yes, we have been talking about albania and north macedonia. we, as the european union, gave them clear conditions which they had to fulfil for us to start negotiation talks, and both countries have fulfilled all the requirements. in terms of albania, they made very brave justice reforms, and when it comes to north macedonia, in all of these countries not everything is perfect yet. that’s why we are not negotiating here or debating here about finally accepting them as partners within the european union. but we’re talking about starting negotiation talks. and what are negotiation talks? they’re about talking about all the problems, all the reforms, all the progress that is still needed. they’re exactly the platform to also talk about bilateral disputes, which several countries may have with several others. i really call on bulgaria to lift that deadlock for that region. to mr dzhambazki i say, as far as i know, your party has not been re-elected to the bulgarian parliament twice, so bulgarian citizens are not supporting your hatred speech, your deepening of the division. as far as i know, they have elected you out of the bulgarian parliament. it would be really important for bulgaria to stand together with the european partners and to lift the deadlock and to start negotiations finally. we still have a majority in the regions that are pro-european, but the majorities are shrinking and we shouldn’t wait all too long, and this is a huge responsibility for all of us, but especially for bulgaria in that situation. on montenegro: montenegro is still the frontrunner when it comes to the negotiations. they have opened the most chapters of all the countries in the region. yes, we’re having a very difficult situation and we need european influence, we need honest european brokers that help with the debate within the country between the former leading party of mr djukanovic, dps, and the current coalition because they need two-thirds majorities for the juridical reforms that are urgently needed. we should help out there. the last word, on serbia: serbia is an important partner in the region. serbia is a great nation. but you know the european union is about overcoming historical disputes. it’s about overcoming historical claims on land and whatsoever. i’m an austrian citizen, what shall i tell you? that’s what the european union is about, and it’s about looking at the commonalities on what we share and whoever knows the balkans region knows that the whole balkans region is sharing a lot: much, much more than divides the different groups, ethnical or religioous, from each other. so i call on serbia to use your influence to look at the shared heritage, the shared values, the shared cultural identity in the region, and use your influence for more peace, for better cooperation and for progress towards joining the european union.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to inform you that - and i would like to say this now for the sake of order - our rules of procedure contain a very clear rule. the clear rule is that no member of this house shall use or display banners within this house and the house. until now, this rule has also been applied to clothing. i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted on the matter, but i am saying that it has not been consulted on the matter. thank you for your understanding.
mr. chairman, please! i am disappointed with the outcome of the summit in slovenia, the summit of the western balkans union, because these countries deserve to be given some kind of road map for their future entry into the european union. i remember our visits, and so does mr. david mcallister. a few years ago we told the representatives of these countries that they would join at the end of the 20s, not this decade. let's remember the political consequences, namely these are countries that have been historically in russia's orbit of influence, and if we push them away from the union or extend this path to the union, then russia will play on this and will benefit from this. that's worth saying, although of course in the first period you have to include serbia, montenegro, north macedonia and other countries. it's more complicated than that, though.
mr president, the european perspective of the western balkans is in our common interest, but it is moving too slowly. it was decided in 2003 at the thessaloniki summit and little progress has been made since then. as long as the european union is slow to implement its commitments, the gap will be filled by others: putin's russia, erdogan's turkey and nationalisms such as the cries we heard from mr dzhambazki before, which are fortunately also rejected by the people of bulgaria. i ask you to take more rapid steps, both from you in the commission and from you in the council, mr logar. the european union must set a timetable, make commitments, provide funds and the western balkan countries must move faster on democratic reforms and align themselves with the copenhagen criteria. and you must immediately move for the opening of accession negotiations for both north macedonia and albania. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people, and we must not forget that the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, and that the european union is a political union of the people. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity.
mr president, instead of technocratically confirming already taken decisions and bureaucratically assessing any pre-accession progress, i wonder why the danger of a break-up of bosnia herzegovina has not been an issue in this summit. the recent concrete steps towards the secession of the republika srpska undertaken by the nationalist leadership under milorad dodik should ring all alarm bells. the votes in the republika srpska (rs) assembly foreseen for next week are without precedent and, being illegal and unconstitutional as well as violating the dayton agreement, have the potential to generate concrete grounds for the rs leadership to pursue their secessionist agenda and thereby endangering stability and even peace in the whole western balkans. i therefore urge the office of the high representative (ohr) and the eu to issue a strong and possibly joint statement condemning the vote in strong terms, as well as declaring it illegal. further, i trust that in the coming weeks, the eu and the ohr will use all possible diplomatic influence and, finally also, the ohr bonn powers to bring the nationalist forces in the republika srpska leadership to reason. i wonder what concrete measures, including sanctions, or the removal from office of those responsible are being considered in order to maintain the territorial integrity of bosnia herzegovina and the peace in the region. you know what happens if we allow dodik to declare independence? the next day he will be recognised by putin, who takes revenge for kosovo, and the green men are probably already on standby somewhere, perhaps in a niche in the russian information centre. we cannot allow that to happen. let us react properly and in time.
mr president, the future of the western balkans region will speak volumes about eu credibility as an economic and political power. we remain the region’s main trading and investment partner, but still have to achieve a lot more in geopolitical terms. it is both our moral duty and our strategic imperative to proceed with the integration process of our partners, even if we stumble into problems along the way. the eu is well prepared in terms of providing funds and good practices, as the declared economic investment plan and the western balkans guarantee facility prove. however, we have to be certain that it is not money for nothing that we are putting in place. political commitments agreed during the summit have to be transformed into reality, in which respect for the rule of law, legal certainty, respect for human and social rights, fighting corruption, and independent public institutions are working standards, not recommendations, in our integration dialogue. we have to demand extra effort from both the candidate countries and ourselves to guarantee that the integration roadmap is being implemented, the acquis adopted and democratic standards are being upheld. only then may we expect the integration process to be the success which we all wish to see.
the deputy rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! i am convinced that we should adopt the second discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european border and coast guard agency for the financial year 2019, which contains the discharge to the agency. it should be noted that the court has delivered a positive opinion in its entirety and that the agency has so far accepted all or part of the court's recommendations. in addition, frontex is leading the initiative to create joint liaison offices in brussels for agencies working in the field of justice and home affairs in order to use resources efficiently, share facilities and services and promote networking. the agency also participates in the network of procurement officers of the european union agencies, assessing interinstitutional tenders for financial needs and resources. the commission should also be able to provide information on the activities of the european border and coast guard agency, including on the activities of the european border and coast guard agency, and on the activities of the european border and coast guard agency. the agency adopted an updated fundamental rights strategy in february 2021 and a decision to implement the agency's transparency was taken on 5 may 2021. the agency has already prepared a preliminary action plan and, at the time of the agency's reply, the policy was finalised for adoption by the end of the second quarter of 2021. the ongoing efforts of the agency to establish a register of all documents produced by the agency, in parallel to its transformation and digitisation, are to be welcomed. the agency actively published key documents on its website and made them available through the public access to documents register. we continue to call on the agency to continue its efforts to improve access to documents. it should be noted that at the meeting of the committee on budgetary control on 1 september 2021, the deputy director-general of the directorate-general for migration and home affairs stated that all investigations concerning the agency had been completed and that none of them had revealed any evidence of budgetary or financial mismanagement or breach of fundamental rights or that the agency had refused to fulfil its obligations under its regulation. furthermore, on 14 july 2021, the frontex working group on monitoring of the parliament's committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs published the report of the investigation into alleged fundamental rights violations in the case of frontex, which aimed to gather all relevant information and evidence on alleged fundamental rights violations in which the agency allegedly participated or was allegedly aware of and did not take action, as well as on internal management and complaint-handling procedures. this working group has not found conclusive evidence of direct mass returns or expulsions by frontex in the case of serious incidents that could be analysed by this working group. it should be added that the european ombudsman, having received the conclusions of the strategic inquiry into the complaints mechanism to the agency for alleged fundamental rights violations, considered that there were no grounds for further investigation of this matter and decided not to pursue it further. finally, i would like to emphasise that only two years after the entry into force of regulation 2016/1624 the commission has presented a proposal for a new regulation on the agency, without an impact assessment of such new legislation. i therefore call on the commission and the agency to find swiftly an appropriate solution to ensure the proper and timely implementation of the agency's mandate under regulation (eu) 2018/1986. i would also like to express my appreciation to the fronteks officers and employees and thank them for their daily work, as a former minister of the interior and administration who works with the fronteks leadership in warsaw on a daily basis. in cooperation with the police, border guards and military of those member states of the union which are now external states, they jointly ensure the security of our borders and, therefore, the security of our citizens. the house has often heard very unfair words spoken against those who, at the risk of their lives, make sure that our common european home is safe. i would like to express my gratitude to mr fabrice leggeri, executive director of fronteks, for his recent visit to the polish-belarusian border and his words of appreciation to the polish border guard, which today, together with the lithuanian and latvian services, is protecting the eastern border of the union from the hybrid war waged by the łukaszki regime, which, using many times naive people, brings them in for their hard-earned money and legally - i emphasise: legally - on the belarusian cruise lines. these people pay for the trip, have visas, and then they are tricked and pushed across the polish-belarusian border by belarusian intelligence officers. i want to emphasize that we are talking about illegal immigrants here, not refugees. as regards refugees, polish legislation makes it clear in line with the conventions, the geneva convention that everyone has the right to apply for international protection. it is worth saying at this point, ladies and gentlemen, that these people who are crossing the border illegally are not applying for this international protection because they want to get to france, denmark, the netherlands, sweden and germany. ask your neighbors, ask your constituents, if they want illegal immigrants in your country.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the cor welcomes the efforts of the european border and coast guard agency in the 2019 financial year to improve the efficiency of the agency's mandate, indicating that further improvements are needed in the agency's activities to support member states, in particular through monitoring of situations or risk analysis. we see no reason why the executive director of the european border and coast guard agency should not be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2019. i would like to emphasise that some of the shortcomings identified in the first report on frontex discharge have been clearly corrected. we welcome, for example, the recruitment of the fundamental rights officer, who took office on 1 june 2021, and the appointment of 20 fundamental rights observers. we know there are 20 more to be hired. it should also be added that it was decided not to pursue the european ombudsman's inquiry into the functioning of the complaints mechanism of the agency in relation to alleged violations of fundamental rights and the role of the fundamental rights officer. the investigation is closed. the cor will therefore vote in favour of the discharge.
for the left. mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that we have succeeded today in concluding the work on the directive on motor vehicle liability insurance, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ditta charanz, for her work in removing the controversial requirement for compulsory cover for electric bicycles, scooters and garden tractors from the commission's proposal. that would be a step in the wrong direction and would certainly not help the reputation of the european union. some motor vehicles, such as electric bicycles and segways, are smaller in size and therefore less likely than other vehicles to cause significant damage to health or property. moreover, this measure would also have a significant impact on older citizens who have no money to spare. vehicles intended exclusively for motor sports are also excluded from the scope of the directive, as these vehicles are usually covered by other types of liability insurance and are not covered by compulsory motor insurance if they are used only for competition purposes. in two years' time, it will also be much easier to negotiate a mandatory guarantee for cars registered in another member state. motor insurance also has a significant impact on the free movement of persons, goods and vehicles and thus on the internal market and the schengen area. i believe that this directive will create legal certainty and harmonise what should be covered by insurance. motorists no longer have to worry about different rules between member states. the negative impacts on a wide range of stakeholders, including injured parties, insurers, guarantee funds and motor vehicle insurers, resulting from the legal disparity will be eliminated. i think we have all done a good job, and i thank you very much for it, because it will be of benefit to the citizens of the european union in particular.
mr. chairman, please! i am very pleased that we have finally reached agreement on this directive, because motor vehicle liability insurance has been a subject of heated debate for many years. and a special congratulations to dita and to all the counter-rapporteurs, to the commission, for having managed to reach an agreement, which i know was difficult. i remember a discussion about this some 13 years ago when i started working in the european parliament. then, unfortunately, the council put a hold on the work for a few years. today we are making some progress, but it is not enough to harmonize some regulations and regulate some single-track electric vehicles. because let's be honest, let's be honest, we are not solving the fundamental problem that concerns what so many consumers complain about: it will still not be possible to take out car insurance in one member state of the union and use that car without restriction in other countries. i know that it is because of the council's resistance that citizens will still not be able to take full advantage of our common european market. we're going to have to come back to this case, and i hope, i believe, we're going to do that in the near future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and also citizens! more and more of you are living in this europe: you go on holiday, you travel, you visit friends and girlfriends, you move, and of course you use the car. it is of course very important that we take account of the new circumstances in the lives of citizens by updating the directive that already exists and making it even better than it has been. i am therefore glad that we have this vote today and that we can ensure that, should an insurance company go bankrupt, citizens can still benefit from their insurance coverage - and that without much difficulty - and that they can exercise their rights. i am also very pleased that we can ensure that when citizens move to another country, they can take their bonus points with them if they have driven without accidents up to that point, and do not have to take out very expensive insurance again. we must also welcome this, because it is really a service to the people, to the citizens. finally, it is very important that we also ensure greater transparency by creating instruments which enable citizens to compare insurance policies, adapted to their living conditions. that is what europe means. that's the good part. i think if we can make such legislation, then we can be proud of the work we've done.
mr. president, we have a lot of bold goals for 2050. among them are: zero carbon emissions and zero road deaths. the safety of europe's roads and the reduction of pollution depend on a set of measures that gradually bring us closer to these targets. they directly concern motorised transport and those who use them. we too often forget that even the best-intentioned measures affect european citizens differently and that it is the most vulnerable who pay the highest price. in 2021, the car is not a luxury, but a necessity. to be able to get to work, to be able to take your kids to school, to be able to go to the hospital. these are not necessities, but european rights. even if the public transport infrastructure is better or worse, in no member state does it serve all citizens. so europeans still need cars, motorcycles, vehicles to get around. the aim is to do so safely and with less pollution, in compliance with national and european rules. it's our duty and the duty of governments to give all the tools to do that. not only have gas and electricity prices gone up across europe, but the price of petrol and diesel has gone up and will go up, compulsory insurance premiums. what we need to do is to step in to support citizens, to make sure they are protected on europe's roads, regardless of country, to support the poorest to have quick and easy access to jobs, to education, to social assistance. let's make sure the carriers can deliver food and medicine without burdening them with extra baggage. make sure that accident victims are compensated quickly and appropriately, and that insurance companies actually follow the law. it's our job to see that these companies do their job, at a fair price. they don't create oligopolies, they don't use tax shenanigans to avoid responsibility, to keep profits. all european citizens have the right to be protected on the roads and to breathe cleaner air. it is our duty to ensure that in no member state are these rights infringed on citizens.
mr. chairman, please! the 2009 road insurance directive is an effective instrument for protecting road users, and the harmonisation of minimum standards for the protection of victims of cross-border traffic allows europeans to travel within the union without having to take out additional insurance. i support the revision and clarification of this directive as it addresses the important consumer protection issues that have emerged since 2009 and includes segways, scooters and electric bicycles, among others. first of all, i welcome greater transparency, the strengthening of the rights of our citizens in the event of an accident, irrespective of the member state, and the streamlining of procedures to ensure that compensation is paid to injured parties in good time. this is a key step forward, as the new directive will make it easier to change insurers both domestically and across the european union, thanks to a new harmonised insurance statement. it will also increase competition in europe and increase consumer choice by preventing discrimination in treatment on grounds of nationality or previous residence.
mr president, i want to welcome this directive. this directive protects drivers when travelling in the eu. it also adds new rights in terms of claim history, even if your previous insurer was in a different eu country. i know this was something that frustrated many people in ireland. it also provides greater clarity for when an insurer goes out of business. when this happened to maltese-registered insurer, setanta insurance, a number of years ago, thousands of irish consumers were left out of pocket amid years of legal wrangling about who was liable to compensate them. this new directive will clarify the law, so that it will hopefully be obvious straightaway who will compensate drivers when left high and dry. moreover, the debate gives us an opportunity to assert the right of irish drivers to see reductions in their premiums now that pay-outs have dropped by 40%. in june of this year, the commission made a preliminary finding of anti-competitive practice amongst irish insurers, something blindingly obvious to many of us for a long time. so, i want to conclude by saying to the commission here today, don’t take your eyes off the irish insurers. if we don’t see reductions in premiums proportionate with the reduction in pay-outs, i will be knocking on the commission’s door again on behalf of irish drivers.
mr president, my thanks to the rapporteur and our team for bringing us to this point today, which is a revision of the motor insurance directive last revised in 2019, and that was a major advancement allowing eu residents to travel anywhere in the eu without the need for further insurance. so it’s a very important measure today for the single market, for provision of services, for those offering business across the european union and for our constituents, for consumers and for citizens across europe. the most important is the protection of victims in the case of an accident and today is an important day for those victims. this revision will be welcomed by consumers that are protected in the event of the insurer becoming insolvent. member states now have to make sure that a body is in place to deal with such cases. a very important consumer protection measure and that compensation will now come from the member states and those member states will pursue the insurer. a previous speaker mentioned setanta insurance company and the situation that occurred in ireland. those who were insured at the time with that company were asked to go to their solicitors to pursue their claims. that no longer will be the case now. also, for uninsured victims, or uninsured vehicles or untraceable vehicleswill now not be a burden for victims, as member states would have to create the funds to compensate those victims. and when moving around, across borders, citizens can bring their no claims bonus with them, and that’s very much to be welcomed. e-scooters, segways, e-bikes are outside the scope of this motor insurance directive now, and i welcome that. i think it’s a practical, common sense measure. there’s no eu requirement now to have motor insurance for these items, but it is a matter for the member states, and i would urge them to take it up. there are concerns from citizens, but that can best be done locally in the member states and i would encourage them to do so.
mr president, commissioner, today's debate is of particular importance to the citizens of the european union, because it is, after all, closely linked to the lives of citizens. it was certainly a long way, it was said here, to debate the amendment of directive 2009/103 on its effectiveness and coherence. the european commission itself has identified four points which we have covered in our work and in the outcome of the trialogue. these are the minimum sums insured, the damages to injured parties following an accident in the event of insolvency. there are many cases, i have even recently a case in my country, of an insurance company going bankrupt and citizens can't get their money back. finally, consumer protection is also important. obviously, the use of damage history certificates - it is very important that when a company goes bankrupt, with the help of this history of data, it can be taken over by another company and not suffer, in the end, the injured party or the citizen who was involved in an accident. i would of course like to see, in addition to these four areas, the inclusion in the future directive of liability in the event of an accident involving a trailer towed by a vehicle. there are a lot of accidents in these cases. it is clear that for the insurance system to work, there needs to be a data transmission system, a system integrated in the european union, so that the member states can transmit their information. all vehicles should be subject to the same checks, without discrimination, because, after all, they must have the same road conditions. of course it is important to ensure prompt reimbursement of money to people involved, injured or involved in an accident. insurance undertakings should treat a certificate from another member state in the same way as they treat a domestic certificate, so that foreigners are not treated differently. i therefore hope, commissioner, that the directive will nevertheless bear fruit on the work done here in parliament and on the result of the trialogue and that we will have a directive which serves ... (the president withdrew the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! road safety depends not only on modern infrastructure and the skills of drivers, but also on the efficiency of the road insurance system. harmonisation of the rules in this area is necessary in view of the frequent travel and high mobility between member states, both for professional and tourist purposes. having easy access to our entire claims history will make it easier to insure a vehicle in another country and avoid discrimination against vehicle owners on the basis of nationality or previous residence. in recent years, many new categories of vehicles have also emerged that were not covered by compulsory insurance. their users also cause accidents, so it was necessary to expand this list. at the same time, it welcomes the fact that member states will be able to make exceptions to this in justified cases and adopt provisions more favourable to the victims than the minimum laid down in this directive.
president, commissioner, i must congratulate you, and especially dita charanzová, for having achieved this after so many years. it is a good compromise and it is good that it is supported by the member states. the free movement of persons within the european union is a very great asset and this directive can greatly improve it. it is good that insured persons are protected in the event of the bankruptcy of the insurer. it is good that there are minimum coverage amounts, that they are updated, and it is good that it is clear what happens to accidents in a workplace. once again, congratulations to all who have contributed! however, governance is forward-looking, commissioner, so i would like to mention a few things that could be taken into account in a future review. i think that we should, for example, move away from a directive and towards a regulation. the rapporteur said: we hope for the common sense of the member states. but if it is a regulation, it is fully harmonised legislation. and particularly in cross-border traffic, i think that's very important. in some cases, a number of vehicles are now excluded from insurance, for example the electric bicycle, but you will be run over by an electric bicycle as a pedestrian and that man or woman is not insured. how do we deal with that in the future? now i understand that, it's small business, but as we're going to use more and more electric vehicles, even small ones, that's grounds for investigation. a big case is when there's damage on highways. you'll see that drivers panic. who is responsible? and that creates huge traffic jams. it would be good - and perhaps you could have it investigated, commissioner - if insurers were to abolish the reduction in no-claim for damage to motorways and also the excess risk, which would allow vehicles to get off the road faster, because the people who are stuck in traffic are also consumers. they are also citizens of europe. and the damage is many times greater. i think insurance companies can work something out. and last but not least, in the netherlands we have a digital app for mobile damage stories. it would be good to introduce the european one, which would allow the settlement to be done more quickly than it is now. because settlement on paper, that time is over.
mr. chairman, please! the implementation of this directive aims at harmonising national provisions on the civil liability of drivers and the rules for its enforcement. it will enable citizens to travel throughout the union without having to buy additional insurance on the basis of a single premium. the directive facilitates the functioning of the single market but will also make a significant contribution to strengthening the protection of road accident victims, as member states will be obliged to set up guarantee funds to pay compensation to victims in the event of insurer insolvency, accidents caused by uninsured or unfixed vehicles. today's debate caps a long period of negotiations with the council, over two years. i think that parliament has managed to work out a good compromise which takes account of most of our amendments to the commission proposal. the exemption of light electric vehicles from the directive, the introduction of derogations for temporarily retired vehicles and the addition of the criteria that online road insurance comparison websites must meet in order to be certified by the member states are of particular interest. i believe that the directive as it stands will adequately achieve its objectives, ensure a high level of protection for victims of road accidents and facilitate the free movement of persons and vehicles within the union. in view of this, parliament should vote in favour of the negotiated text of the directive. thank you to everyone who has made this negotiation a success.
member of the commission. – mr president, colleagues, for a thursday afternoon, this has been a lively debate, and i welcome this, and many different views, but all strongly explored and developed. so i’m glad that i’m here to participate. i do want to take a slight issue with mr hoogeveen, who said that people in the berlaymont are power-hungry. i’m not. i was of this house, so i understand people and i am still connected, so perhaps not to judge too harshly. on the point of more bureaucracy, this parliament wants us to do something with philanthropy, and i think we don’t want to tie it up in red tape and make charity stop because people do give. and i support your point that in giving you receive. but, generally speaking, there are a lot of organisations and institutions who are looking at other ways of funding their work. they need complementary funding tools because they do have financial pressures. and in order for many of them to thrive in the long term, including in the arts and culture that i referenced and the protection of the environment and social innovation, they do need to look at ways in this non—commercial sector of long—term financial strategies that makes them sustainable. the european non—profit sectors are at a turning point, and this pandemic, the covid—19 pandemic, revealed both their vulnerabilities, but, as was referenced, also highlighted their importance. so in this new reality, i believe that all sources of funding must be explored and philanthropy will have to play, in my view, a key role. so thank you for the debate. mr president, if i can be indulged with the microphone for 30 seconds and i hope i have your support in what i’m about to say. as a former vice—president of parliament, i want to thank julia glinski for her excellent service to this parliament. she’s finishing in plenary services after seven years, moving on and i hope with your support you feel it appropriate that i thank her for her service, and i mean that from the very bottom of my heart, julia, because you are and hopefully will remain a wonderful colleague and a great servant of this parliament. thank you and thank you for giving her a well—deserved round of applause.
thank you very much, commissioner mcguinness. i think both mr wallace and you have just given a very good example of how - for all the controversy about a single market for philanthropy - philanthropy is not always about money, but your thanks to the people who treated you, but also the thanks of mrs mcguinness are a very good example of where philanthropy really starts, and we certainly all want more of it. the debate is closed. the meeting is adjourned. it will resume at 4.30 p.m. with the announcement of the results of the second round of voting today. (the sitting was suspended at 3.47 p.m.)
the minutes of the sittings of 18 to 21 october will be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next part-session. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at these meetings to the persons and bodies named in them.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on 21 october 2021.
the commission has also received comments from the netherlands on the draft amending budget for the financial year 2021 and the draft amending budget for the financial year 2021.
the epp, renew europe and ecr groups informed the president about decisions related to changes in appointments within committees and delegations. these decisions will be entered in the minutes of today's sitting and shall enter into force on the date of this announcement.
the itre committee decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations, in accordance with rule 71 (1) of its rules of procedure. the report, which constitutes the mandate for the negotiations, is available on the plenary website and its title will be published in the minutes of the meeting. under rule 71 (2), a number of members or a political group or groups reaching at least the average threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, thursday 11 november at 24.00, that the decision to enter into negotiations be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament on the decision to open negotiations is made by the deadline which has not yet expired, the committee may open negotiations.
to move to the agenda changes, following consultations with the political groups i wish to put to the house the following proposals for changes to the final draft agenda. wednesday on wednesday, the european council and commission statements on conclusions of the european council meeting of 21 and 22 october 2021, currently scheduled as the first item on wednesday, are postponed to the november ii part-session. this item will be replaced by a statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation at the belarus border without resolution. i see that there are no objections. there were however two different proposals for the title of the debate. the renew and s&d groups have proposed the following title: ‘the escalating humanitarian crisis on the eu-belarusian border, in particular in poland’. the ecr group has proposed the following title: ‘the escalating crisis on the eu’s external borders with belarus’. i will give the floor to mr séjourné to move the request on behalf of the renew group.
madam president! i'm polish. we have declared a state of emergency, and lithuania is also declaring a state of emergency, because the belarusian regime is escalating the conflict on the polish-belarusian border every day. every day, thousands of polish border guards and soldiers are the target of physical and psychological attacks. ladies and gentlemen! we can't just discuss the humanitarian crisis. this is a crisis of security at the external borders of the european union. lukashenko wants us to discuss only the humanitarian crisis he himself caused. it says here that in the polish forests people freeze. no, they're freezing in the belarusian forests because that's what lukashenko wants. we are discussing a lot about the external borders of the european union today. it is not lukashenko or the kremlin who will dictate who is allowed to enter the european union. the sanctity of the borders of the european union must therefore also be guaranteed here in this house. madam president! i appeal to my colleagues in italy, greece, spain, lithuania: wherever there are artificial smuggling routes, they are happy today if we are only discussing the humanitarian crisis. this is a crisis of security at the borders of the european union and we ask for your support for our proposal.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. it is regrettable to note that this debate, which is of great importance for the security of the citizens of the european union, has again become, at least in the words of some of the countries, a pretext for attacking the polish government. i am very sorry to note that the head of the largest group in the european parliament, mr manfred weber, is once again attacking the polish government. today, he didn't refer to donald tusk, as he did during the last debate on poland. and the only words that should be heard from this speaker today are those addressed to the polish border guards, the polish army, the polish police, who together with their counterparts in spain, greece and italy ensure that the state can utter these uncreated dirty words. you voted today as a left-wing majority that we will discuss the humanitarian situation on the polish-belarusian border. you know, you've voted that snail is a fish, that carrot is a fruit, you can vote that there's no gender, that dad is mommy, and mommy is dad, but what does that have to do with common sense? i thank you very much for this sensible voice that clearly states that the situation that affects the whole of the european union today is a hybrid war being waged by the criminal regime of lukashenka and his moscow protector against the security of the whole of the european union. if we, through this kind of debate, send a signal - as the high representative has very accurately said - to those unfortunate people in the sahel countries, in the middle east, that they can come here because we will take care of them, because we will open the door wide, then we will have a repeat of 2015. all of you who are in this room today saying that we should open the borders, take care of these poor people, you are actually giving money to the people who are organizing the smuggling of these poor people. may this reflection finally reach you. today, the revenue from human trafficking, from organizing illegal migration, is greater than the revenue from arms or drugs. the debate that is taking place today, with the irresponsible leftists, is actually encouraging hundreds of thousands more people from chad, mali, senegal, somalia and the middle east to come here to europe. today we stand behind the polish border guards, the polish police, the polish army.
madam president, what we are witnessing at the eastern borders of the european union is not only a humanitarian or a migration crisis; it is hybrid warfare, unleashed by a cynical dictator because the eu will rightfully not recognise his unelected regime. we can never give in to this kind of blackmail. we need to make it very clear to lukashenko that he will never be the one to decide who enters the european union. we managed to show this to mr erdoğan before. we must now do the same. we must listen to the needs of the member states at the border. this is an unprecedented crisis and it requires extraordinary measures, and all options must be on the table. the political choice of the european commission to categorically refuse to consider financing physical border infrastructure is naive. it is does not reflect the gravity of the situation and it should be reconsidered. but that alone will not do. we need to talk to the countries of departure of these migrants. we need to talk to the airlines transporting them, and we need to talk to the social media platforms advertising and recruiting for lukashenko’s travel agency. we must use all instruments at our disposal to make them take their responsibility. last but certainly not least, we have to make sure that those vulnerable people stuck at the border receive the help that they need. these are also victims, and with the winter conditions worsening, human tragedies should be avoided at all costs. we need as the eu to defend our borders, but we also need to defend our values.
i have to say, madam president, no one has any intention of building a wall. the wall came, europe was divided. today we are witnessing a humanitarian catastrophe on the polish-belarusian border. people are being forced out of their homes on the one hand, and exploited for political purposes on the other. i condemn this abuse by the belarusian regime and call for the extension of sanctions. but at the same time we must defend and safeguard the rule of law and our fundamental values, the principles of the eu, at the external borders. access to asylum must be granted, and violations of the principle of non-refoulement are illegal. we have to remember that the berlin wall fell yesterday. have all those who now call for eu funds for walls and fences forgotten the lessons of that time? instead of closures, we need more solidarity among member states, legal access routes so that people do not have to rely on traffickers for a chance of protection. and it needs an expansion of resettlement. we have opposed the instruments, the cynical abuse of people and the division of europe. the question for the council is: do you have the political will to use all these means?
madam president, migrants drowning in the western mediterranean; smugglers are to blame. migrant victims of pushbacks in the eastern mediterranean; erdoğan is to blame. migrants stuck and dying on the polish border; lukashenko is to blame. so maybe, just maybe, we should think about how the european response is part of the problem. let us not step into the game of the dictators because they are playing us like puppets. they send a few thousand migrants and laugh as they see us scramble. in the meantime, putin has sent fighter jets to guard the belarus—poland border today. the real game is a big game and it is geopolitical. frankly, mr borrell, i do not want to interrupt your phone call, but i would have hoped for a more powerful answer than your speech today, because i do not think that mr putin and mr lukashenko will lose much sleep over it. time for europe to wake up because a wall may keep out the migrants, but it will not keep out reality.
madam president, using migrants as a retaliatory weapon and playing with their lives is deplorable. marching them to the eu’s external borders and leaving them stranded is inhumane. all this deserves a clear and prompt response from the eu. the dictator in minsk must know he won’t get away with it. but, regretfully, on our side, we only see wire fences going up. more and more troops being deployed to watch over the borders. we see pushbacks and we see people cramped together, hardly getting any assistance, freezing in hunger, or even dying. as much as this is a crisis caused by a vengeful dictator eager to put pressure on us, it is a humanitarian crisis, and it must be addressed according to our core values and to international law. no response based only on security concerns. no eu money for new walls. there has to be a european way to make things right when it comes to migration.
madam president, for several months now lithuania and poland have been subjected to the pressure and blackmail of migration systematically organized by belarus, which is implementing a veritable air bridge between the middle east and minsk in order to dump tens of thousands of illegal immigrants on our doorsteps. lukashenko is acting as erdogan before him did, who was never sanctioned. on monday i was in lithuania with the frontex staff and lithuanian border guards who are bravely facing the situation, strengthening their borders, hastily building a barrier with modern security, thanks in particular to the help and solidarity of estonia, slovenia and denmark. but as usual, the european commission is absent-minded, obsessively and ideologically refusing to pay a single penny to finance the closure, but watching suspiciously to ensure that the sacrosanct dogma of non-refoulement of migrants is respected to the letter. but who can believe for a second that these manipulated migrants, who push women and children in front of them to artificially arouse empathy, but who do not hesitate to physically attack the border and try to reach european soil with violence, would be animated by praiseworthy intentions? it is true that, being controlled and manipulated by belarus, they come at best to benefit from a social generosity that we can no longer afford, and at worst, as we know, to sow chaos, insecurity and sometimes even terrorism on our soil. in any case, we have only one duty: to refuse blackmail, to guard our borders, to prevent them from entering, to show them the way back and to expel them from europe. we are not meant to welcome all the misery in the world, nor the gangs of criminals and traffickers, nor the islamists and potential terrorists. today, poland and lithuania, like hungary yesterday, are defending their external borders with determination, despite the fact that the european institutions are trying to rein in them instead of helping them. these states deserve our respect and our thanks, because by protecting the polish border they are protecting all of europe and europeans.
madam president, your honour, i have to ask you to stop this. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm polish. my country is on the eve of a national holiday. tomorrow is the 103rd anniversary of the declaration of independence. and again, after all these years, we were attacked very brutally. i want to thank our border guards, police officers, military, for guarding our borders, as their ancestors fought for a free and independent poland. yes, in politics, ladies and gentlemen, you can be either wise and prudent or naive. you can choose. naivety will cost a lot, including the whole european union. mr. high representative, you spoke - and in a very good speech - about humanitarian aid, about the fact that you will be talking to lukashenko. i wish you luck, because the poles sent a convoy with humanitarian aid, lukashenko did not let them in. then the president of the republic of poland sent him lukashenko did not let them in. he's ruthless and he'll demand a very high price, and he still won't meet your conditions. this regime today, and what's happening, has its origins in both minsk and moscow. this hybrid action of russia and belarus was already practiced in the western exercises. both countries have an immigration agreement and a common military doctrine. today we need solidarity in pushing the lukashenka regime out of the eu.
mr. chairman, please! i'd like to say a few words as a pole, because it's very important. and to you, too, ms. kempo. we have not only a hybrid, we have a physical attack on the borders of the european union, the borders of poland. lukashenko being supported by putin is an obvious fact, because yesterday they had a debate on the common military doctrine. this is an attack on the whole of europe. are you surprised - because you speak of naivety - that your rightful request and demand does not have full support in the house today? after all, for months you have been attacking partners and friends of poland against the european institutions. this is the last moment to turn back from this path, because only a strong and united europe can guarantee our common security. and you have one last chance to go back, to go back to that group, which is your partner group, and not to seek friendship and flirt with putin sympathizers because they applauded you in strasbourg. these are not our friends, polish friends, but those who support the destruction of a common europe. you've got to think about it, because this is the last moment. if today, despite our differences, we have a chance to work out a common strategy, support it, because only a united and strong europe is the answer to this attack by putin and lukashenka on our security.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. lukashenko and putin are opening champagne today, looking at how they've divided us. they're glad the polish government fell into a trap set by them. we wasted months trying to convince the polish government to come to its senses and start cooperating with the european union. what was the polish government doing? he was intimidating the refugees. he said they promote zoophilia, that there are pedophiles among them, that they have protozoa, parasites. that's what we've been hearing for the last few months. instead of coming to your senses, you've become useful idiots to putin and lukashenko. but the european union, commissioner, has also been fooled. he's a dictator who has been terrorizing and torturing his people for 26 years. today there are more political prisoners in belarus than there are members of this house, more than there are members of the european parliament. people are dying, people are being tortured, and we, as the european parliament, are passing resolutions and resolutions, and the high commissioner is pretending not to hear us, as he did during this debate. where is the european union? what mandate do we have today to oppose lukashenko? people must see clearly that by crossing the belarus-poland border, they are crossing the border between dictatorship, terror, despotism and freedom, democracy and human rights. today, because of the inaction of the european union and the actions of the polish government, it is not visible. commissioner, it's not a yellow light anymore, it's a red light. you have to act, because your inaction is only exacerbating the divisions in the european union, and the populists are applauding it.
mr president, as european representatives and officials in european politics, we are primarily judged by our insightfulness and results, not by intentions. when erdoğan was instrumentalising unfortunate people in migration in a hybrid attack against the eu and certain member states, we all knew about it, just as we know now about lukashenko. same methods, same brutal exploitation of human suffering. but at the time, did we impose sanctions? no. human suffering deserves human solidarity. criminal dictators deserve criminal prosecution and firm action, not lip service. words are enough that we have so far sanctions. finally, those comparing the berlin wall with the protection of the eu external border is not right. i know all about internal borders, and one of them is in nicosia, preserved by erdoğan’s turkish troops.
mr president, in 2017, tom wright of the brookings institution wrote a book, the title of which is very appropriate for the debate that we are having today. it was called all measures short of war. what we are seeing on the polish—belarus border is a classic example of hybrid warfare. but we are vulnerable to this type of hybrid warfare because we do not have in place a legislative programme for safe and legal migration. migration is like water; if there are obstacles somewhere, it will move somewhere else. that is the reality, and because we have no legislative framework, we are seeing reprehensible behaviour, not just on the polish-belarus border, but also in the aegean and also in libya and on the bosnia-croatia border. the guardian earlier this year identified that there have been 2 000 deaths associated with pushbacks, and 40 000 people have been pushed back by eu authorities. there are 13 ngos working on this in the border violence monitoring network, and what we have to recognise is that, once you are a signatory to the geneva convention, you cannot sign your way out of assessing whether or not somebody has a well-founded fear of persecution.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe we are in a situation for the first time: a member state - and we are not talking about poland's internal policy here, but about the policy of the european union - a member state of the european union is now waging a human war on its border, after all. we know, not for a moment, that lukashenko has a certain policy. we have to take, commissioner, and i would like you to tell us in your reply what steps have been taken. european citizens are worried. security is the responsibility of the european institutions. we have a health crisis, we have an economic crisis, now here, and a crisis -- no, i wouldn't call it a migration crisis, but it's a human shield war. commissioner, i have learned that prevention is more important and faster and less costly than repair. what did i do to prevent this fire? he couldn't just come. how did these people get here? i, as a diplomat and mep, am connected and corrected and checked at all borders. i just entered germany and, although i had boarded, they checked all my papers again. how did these people get to the polish border? the number one priority, commissioner, is to defend the borders of the european union, not just poland, but the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the migration crisis at the polish border is terrible, but we must deal with it with clarity. like turkey, belarus is waging a hybrid war against the european union by deliberately sending thousands of migrants to our borders. if we give in, we'll tell the people of the world that they can come in and we'll be overwhelmed. we must therefore take our responsibility and support poland in its efforts to protect its border, which is also the external border of the union. but we must go further: i ask the union to finance the construction of fences at its external borders. protecting the peoples of europe from the flood of migration is our first duty.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. high representative, colleagues, of course poland can and should protect its borders. of course poland can and must do everything possible to protect its security, to protect its territory and hence the territory of the european union. the polish government should also be supported in this effort. but what is happening right now in this room? instead of seeing this support, instead of seeing a willingness to help the polish government, we see how colleagues on the left in the room are trying to use this for their own rather meager domestic political goals, trying to do their eternal intrigues, to sow their divisions. we're hearing outrageous and crazy proposals for how to solve this crisis. most of the proposals are so crazy, they're not even worth discussing. we hear things that are beyond the realm of human reason, and what needs to be done is simply to support the polish government, just as all the external borders between greece, italy, bulgaria need to be supported, to support the construction of facilities and the protection of the territory of the member states of the european union.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this lively debate on a lively reality. we have used the concept of 'hybrid war' a lot - and i have used it myself - and if you refer to the definitions we normally use to make sense of the words, a hybrid war is a process that combines destabilisation operations - not necessarily violent - with a battle of information or disinformation and that can also generate violent situations or military actions as a consequence of the tension created by the destabilisation processes. that said, what is happening on the border of belarus certainly deserves to be called that because it fits the definition, but i think we should make an effort to avoid an escalation of war terms, we should avoid increasing tension by using tense words: i do not think that the war or neo-war climate we are creating with the discourse of wars, raids, etc. will help us much in having a full knowledge of what is happening in order to give a constructive response. yes, we can use the terms in the sense that the technical literature gives them, but we should also avoid embarking on a dynamic where the terms 'war', 'invasion' etc. would not serve the purpose that we have, which is at this moment to protect the borders of the union, without a doubt; to deal with a humanitarian crisis, too, and to respect our laws and our procedures, also in this case, and the schengen code, which is intended for all kinds of situations. so, ladies and gentlemen, what is clear is that we are dealing with the exploitation of people to be used as instruments of pressure against our borders. call it what you will, but we are witnessing a massive disinformation operation - i see here my colleague the commissioner responsible for fighting it - a massive disinformation operation in many countries at once, where people are told that there is a way to the promised land; the promised land is us, europe, which for many people is the hope for a better life. and the scenes and information we have from the intelligence services that we share with the member states clearly show that this operation is very orchestrated, that at the beginning it was only one flight a week from baghdad and now - i will give an example of an airline linked to an oligarch cousin of bashar al-assad who until now was engaged in transporting the troops of the wagner group and who has now found an apparently more lucrative activity, that in one week has made twenty rotations between damascus and belarus and has sold all its tickets for the next flights. it is an absolutely measured operation based on deception, and this deception is producing huge profits for many people: there are belarusian consuls who have travel agencies; on friday morning they are consuls and in the afternoon they sell tickets. a lot of people are making a lot of money, and we certainly have to cut this flow: we got that with iraq and we're trying to do that now. our colleague, vice-president schinas, will be visiting the transit countries, which are not all countries of origin, but increasingly are no longer iraqis: they are syrians, they are afghans, they are all those who have found temporary refuge in some transit country and now believe that they can reach europe and end up between two walls; the walls may not be walls, but they are obstacles: a closed border and belarusian guards who, once they have brought them to it, prevent them from going back. firstly, we must respect our schengen codes, and our schengen codes say that there must be border crossing points where people can be checked, and that the principle of non-refoulement must be respected, and that certainly we must monitor illegal border crossing, but there must be checkpoints. we must combine the defence of our border - our border, and i say this in the plural, because the border of poland, lithuania and latvia is a european border - with respect for our laws and regulations and we must do everything we can to prevent a humanitarian crisis arising at the very foot of europe, the pole of our border. and for that, and many have asked me to do that, and believe me, we will do everything we can to get it done, the aid agencies need to be able to help these people and be able to get to them from both sides: we haven't got it yet, but i hope we can get it done. secondly, we must raise the tone of the political debate and take the issue to the united nations: this is no longer a matter of bilateral dialogue between us and belarus, we are witnessing a massive operation of human rights violation that deserves to be discussed in the highest international political body, which is the united nations, and i intend to use the diplomatic means that we and the member states have to raise the issue at the highest level. and of course we have to continue to fight the lukashenka regime, but it will not fall tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow we may find people who are not able to survive in the circumstances in which they have found themselves as a result of the deception they have suffered and the lack of respect for their dignity from the belarusian regime. we have to do all that. i appreciate your opinions, your criticisms, your different points of view, but i believe that europe must be united in this; united around things which must not be incompatible with each other: united around the defence of our border, our territory; united around respect for our values, which are based on laws, and united in the ways and methods we have to prevent this flow from continuing and that those who have come this far have a way of returning. someone asked, "back where?" going back to where they came from for a lot of them. because if they cannot all enter europe, what is certain is that they cannot stay at the foot of our border forever. thank you for your support, thank you for this discussion: it is a good opportunity to show what europe stands for in the world.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. what is happening on the border between belarus and the european union is a brutal hybrid attack. innocent people are being used to destabilize the european union. latvia, lithuania and poland are defending the external borders of the european union and the european union must give them all the support it can.
in writing. i would like to remind you, first of all, that the smuggling of migrants at the belarusian border is not new, as i alerted the european commission about this situation as early as 2019. however, it would be wrong to draw the condemnation of belarus and its president as the only lesson to be drawn from the recent influx of migrants. this latest manifestation of an endless migration crisis underlines above all the european union's stubborn refusal to take any sensible measures to protect its external borders. what does poland want ? nothing more than a financial contribution to the construction of a fence along the border separating it from belarus. the austrian chancellor, alexander schallenberg, has followed suit with a similar barrier on the lithuanian border. i am sorry, and as the german minister of the interior recently pointed out, the protection of frontiers is legitimate. the current crisis has made it clear that this is the case. the european union cannot continue to be false to itself. thank you.
in writing. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the eastern states of the european union have been confronted with the aggressive actions of the minsk regime. it is unjustifiable that the belarusian dictator uses people as a political tool to not only cause confusion in lithuania, poland and latvia, but also to destabilise the whole of the european union. the large flows of refugees seeking to enter the eu have created a major humanitarian crisis. thousands of people are suffering, and our countries are under tremendous pressure. it is clear that the eu needs to act in solidarity and unity in this situation. it is clear that the baltic state is engaged in a hybrid war, with innocent people at its centre. the eu must take very concrete action as soon as possible, especially in dealing with the governments of the countries of origin of migrants, so that they do not give in to the politics of minsk and send their people to belarus. refugees already at the eu's borders must be returned to their countries of origin. in the meantime, the situation is deteriorating and the possibility of conflict is increasing, as the minsk regime has crossed all boundaries. refugees are being equipped to deal with the eu's external border guards and the risk of armed conflict is increasing. the eu must do everything possible to stop the regime in minsk and the rampage in lukashenka, and this must be a priority on the eu's political agenda.
in writing. the title of the debate is misleading. persons staying in minsk as tourists at the invitation of the authorities may freely move throughout the territory of belarus. they pay thousands of euros for it. at the border, we are facing a security crisis, breaking the law and dangerous provocations, which were also practiced as part of the scenario of the last maneuvers zapad-2021. we should debate the escalation of tensions deliberately created by the belarusian regime and russia on the external borders of the eu and nato, including, above all, poland. it is good that the countries of the union and the north atlantic alliance, as well as the leaders of these organizations, have expressed their solidarity with poland. i hope that these words will be followed by concrete actions to preserve our unity and strengthen our resistance to hybrid attacks from minsk and moscow. only concrete action can stop the aggressive actions of the lukashenka regime, which are being fomented by the kremlin. the fifth tranche of sanctions on the minsk regime is a matter of eu credibility. the hard sanctions must affect all entities responsible for the hybrid attack on the polish borders, including belarusian authorities and services, entities responsible for the operation of belarusian airports, the tourism sector, including cooperators, mainly from russia. each of these entities is part of a smuggling network organized by lukashenka's services, which uses people in a brutal and barbaric way to protect the compromised authority.
in writing. for weeks, the polish-belarusian border has been defending the eastern borders of the european union from the aggressive hybrid war waged by the belarusian regime with the support of russia. the actions of aggressive attacks on polish border protection services are aimed at destabilizing poland, dividing europe and bringing about a situation in which the european union will once again accept the expansion of the russian sphere of influence. the current situation is not a humanitarian or migration crisis, but a planned action below the threshold of war. poland has learned from the european migration crisis of 2015 and shows that protecting its borders is the duty of every state and one cannot be blackmailed at the expense of one's own security. the european union must wake up, because beyond the many words of support for poland, the current problem will not be solved without genuine solidarity and courageous political decisions. words must be followed by action, so that the aggressor sees no reason to repeat his actions in the future. for the above reasons, i appeal that no decisions regarding actions on the polish border are made without the knowledge and acceptance of the polish authorities, following the formula 'doing about us without us'.
in writing. – the lukashenko regime is exploiting a well-documented russian playbook of hybrid instruments – in this case, artificial irregular migration. it is using it to overwhelm the asylum systems of eastern eu member states, stoke political tension, and undermine the eu’s ability react to other crises. the way the lukashenko regime has used people fleeing conflict as human ammo is a stark reminder of its disregard for the most basic fundamental human rights and of its complete disregard for international law. i must reiterate the importance of effectively protecting the eu’s external border by supporting the most affected countries. i therefore call on the european commission to prepare relevant legislative proposals providing member states with the necessary safeguards to effectively react and respond to such situations. i also call for the swift adoption of the next package of sanctions, which should also include the sanctions related to the smuggling of illegal migrants into the eu. we also should talk firmly and clearly to the countries of origin of the migrants in order to stop the flights from their airports to belarus. no airline involved in human trafficking should be allowed to land on eu soil.
in writing. the security crisis on the eastern border of the european union concerns us all. let's face it, this is a very serious matter. the situation we're seeing has little to do with a humanitarian crisis. the polish border, the eastern border of the union, is being attacked by hordes of illegal immigrants. this organized action, inspired by the belarusian authorities and headed by lukashenko, is aimed at destabilizing the whole community. it's getting worse by the day. there are physical attacks on polish security forces. we have to stop this. we have to start acting. the introduction of further sanctions against belarus will not bring the desired effect. a firm and firm position of the union as a whole is needed. it's the only way we can defend our eastern border. it's the only way to defend our sovereignty! history likes to repeat itself. poland had already faced a brutal attack and in its early days was left to fend for itself. we cannot allow this threat to escalate. let us work together for the good of all citizens of the european union.
in writing. the situation on the polish-belarusian border is deteriorating every day. people are dying from pushbacks, freezing in polish forests and swamps, and starving and lacking access to clean water. some of them are tortured through brutal beatings and psychological pressure. the polish government has sent about 15,000 soldiers and police to border areas to protect the border, which is not in any way undermined by the belarusian side. the protection needs are particularly acute for migrants in the emergency zone, where humanitarian and medical assistance are not available. i believe that it is urgent and necessary to create humanitarian corridors that will allow migrants to submit asylum applications and to lift the state of emergency as soon as possible, as well as to impose more targeted sanctions on the lukashenka regime. asylum procedures should be started immediately. let's not let the victims of lukashenko become our victims too.
in writing. when the european union is asleep, when we have been waiting for years for an eu migration policy, demons are waking up, member states are starting to practice their policies, build walls, put up fences, escalate crises and create threats. the european union must have one single rule: the european union's safe border is one where no one is left helpless, no one gets sick, no one has to die. but for the border services of the member states to cope with such situations, to be able to protect people in need of help, there needs to be a common policy, common and clear rules, common and clear procedures. these rules and procedures must be consistent with the values of the european union, such as respect for human dignity and the protection of human rights, including the rights of minorities. in 2015, the european union failed the exam. for the next six years, the commission and the council were unable to come up with any effective solutions. and all indications are that in 2021 the commission and the council will fail again on the most important issue the protection of human rights. does the commission and the council need new powers in this area? if so, let's start talking about it. it is a shame that our community continues to leave people fleeing war, hunger and the effects of the climate crisis without support and assistance. what about our union solidarity?
in writing. what is happening on the eu's border with belarus is the start of a hybrid war. this situation is clearly a provocation of crisis and a use of migrants for political ends. the external border of the european union must be protected, including against the hybrid attacks practised by belarus. i also call on my colleagues to take decisive action to achieve the objectives we have agreed in our discussions. full support for the proposal to finance the construction of a footbridge on the border with belarus. only by taking clear action can we guarantee the security of our member states against the challenges of belarus. in particular, given the number of adult cases of covid-19, this situation needs to be addressed immediately with a unified and robust response from brussels.
the next item is the report by mr wölken and mrs metsola on strengthening democracy and media freedom and pluralism in the eu (2021/2036 (ini)) (a9-0292/2021). i would remind members that you can request 'catch the eye' and 'blue card' cards via your voting device after you have inserted your voting card. i therefore ask you to carry your voting card with you at all times. instructions have been made available in the hemiciclo. if you wish to register for the 'catch the eye' procedure, we invite you to do so now, without waiting for the end of the debate. i would also like to remind you that speeches in the chamber will continue to be made from the central platform, except for spontaneous requests for the floor, blue cards and points of order. we therefore invite members to follow the list of speakers and to approach the rostrum when their time to speak is imminent.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: a critical blog post, a harsh tweet, an open letter to the government, the publication of articles after intensive research. all of this sounds like harmless activities that are done millions of times a day. however, all these simple actions can have dramatic consequences. more and more journalists, ngos and activists are facing lawsuits, simply because they are exposing public criticism of scandals. these lawsuits are not about legally defending themselves, but powerful individuals and organizations are pursuing strategic lawsuits to get rid of critics. our courts, which were created to protect legitimate interests, are increasingly being abused by these same powerful individuals and organizations. and these strategic lawsuits against public participation are a slap in the face to the defendants and are therefore also called slapp lawsuits. i'm not talking about a few slapp lawsuits. slapp actions are becoming more and more common in the european union. the swedish media company realtid media has been repeatedly threatened with lawsuits as a result of its reporting. the polish activists of the atlas of hate are currently being sued by several governments. in the german state of hesse, initiatives promoting democracy and opposing right-wing extremism are increasingly facing lawsuits. what do all these cases have in common? first, victims of slapp lawsuits are simply doing their jobs. second, the plaintiffs have no intention of defeating the defendants. it's not about winning. the procedure is only instituted to force the victims into expensive, complicated, lengthy and nerve-wracking procedures. at the same time, it is intended to deter other critics. but not only that, slapp lawsuits have an impact not only on the victims but also on their families. daphne caruana galizia was facing 47 lawsuits at the time of her murder, and her children are still facing the same lawsuits as legal successors. all these examples show that we in the eu need to act urgently. no one, really no one, should be silenced by strategic lawsuits. those who make public criticism, who publish research, must be able to be sure that they will not be subject to reprisals, intimidation and threats. democracy thrives on the discourse of different opinions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have the backing of numerous civil society organisations, academics, judges, lawyers and victims of slapp lawsuits to make our eu-wide consistent proposals. we want measures of a legal nature. this includes a review of the applicable international rules of private law in order to avoid complaint tourism. we want a binding directive with minimum standards to protect against slapp lawsuits with an eu-wide definition. at the same time, we need complementary non-legislative measures, such as a fund to support victims of slapp cases, so that legal costs can be covered or psychological support can be organised. of course, we need to actively train judges and lawyers to recognize slapp lawsuits. because despite the enormous number of complaints, the phenomenon is not yet sufficiently perceived. so instead of intimidating those who point out wrongdoing, we should be backing them up. it is not the victims of slapp who should be brought to justice, but those who abuse our legal system who should be held accountable for their intimidation, and that is why we need this initiative.
rapporteur. – mr president, tiemo and myself, as co-rapporteurs, come from different committees and different political families, and we have come together for a shared purpose, presenting this cross-party, cross-committee report in plenary today in what i consider to be a very important moment. important for our institution, that meps came together to adopt a report that protects journalists. important for our european democracy that this report is not only adopted but also implemented. important for our societies’ gatekeepers that they know that we have their backs when they have nowhere else to turn to. strategic lawsuits against public participation (slapps) are lawsuits that seek to muzzle our journalists and provide a chilling effect on public participation. they do this by financially and emotionally draining their targets, starting out with threats and continuing with legal action. trends have shown an increase of these kinds of lawsuits over the past years. we need to be clear: this is not about people not being able to protect their reputation, this is about the abuse of our legal systems, and there is a fine balance that we have managed to achieve in this report. the slapp strategy is simple but effective, with criminals literally shopping around our jurisdictions, scouting out favourable laws to serve their purposes. in effect, this means that individual journalists are faced with a number of lawsuits filed against them in foreign jurisdictions. at that point, journalists are faced with a choice: stop reporting the facts or face costly and lengthy lawsuits in another foreign country. so journalists lose the case before it even starts. in some member states, lawsuits are filed against them in their personal capacity in legal systems they are unaware of and have no connection with, meaning that, if they leave their job with a media house, the case could still follow them around. mounting a defence is practically impossible, so those with the means get what they want and the story is effectively killed. our message is: this is unacceptable. these lawsuits do not seek to obtain a favourable outcome, but they seek to intimidate. we have a system today that favours those who seek to hide the truth over those who seek to expose it. so there is no equality of arms in the system. there is no justice in the system, and we in this parliament want to change that. this european parliament has long been at the forefront of calling for a new anti-slapp legislation, and we want this report to be the foundation of a new eu anti-slapp directive. we have made sure that we have as many safeguards as necessary to protect our press, our journalists and civil society from slapps while remaining within what is possible under the eu treaties. we are calling for a reform of the brussels 1a regulation to prevent forum shopping, and calling for the introduction of a uniform choice of law rule for defamation and the rome 2 regulation to give legal certainty. what we want do is combine legislation with complementary measures and create a system where judges are able to take a quick a priori decision that would see obviously vexatious lawsuits dismissed quickly and this means investing in training and creating systems that would allow for this. our report calls for a fund, as said by my colleague, for slapp victims, for legal fees, legal aid, psychological support, training and an online information and support hub for potential victims of slapps. we can make a difference. we look forward to listening to you, colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs we have worked excellently with, and also to you, commissioner, we look forward to hearing from you.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am pleased to join you in view of the adoption of the european parliament’s own-initiative report to address the phenomenon of strategic lawsuits against public participation (slapp). i wish to congratulate the co-rapporteurs, roberta metsola and tiemo wölken, for their excellent work. four years have passed since the tragic assassination of daphne caruana galizia and already, as we heard from mr wölken, at the time of her death, daphne had a shocking number of 47 slapp cases pending, and many are still, even now, fought by her family. abusive litigation against those whose job it is to inform our citizens on issues of public interest seems to be gaining ground in the european union. there is growing evidence that, in particular, journalists and rights defenders are targets of this and our rule of law report of 2021 includes details on that. together with increasing threats to their physical and online safety, legal threats and abusive litigation add to an environment where hostile activity against journalists is growing and can have a serious impact on their willingness and ability to continue their work. their work, as well as that of rights defenders, is fundamental for the health of our democracies and for the rule of law. our democracies depend on the active engagement of journalists and civil society speaking up when the public interest is at stake. together, we are making progress towards the eu initiative announced by the commission to protect journalists and rights defenders against abusive lawsuits. allow me to expand on the commission’s plans in this regard. after mapping and assessing the situation in the member states, we believe that the most efficient way to fight against slapp and prevent it from growing roots in the eu would be a solid and balanced combination of legislative and non-legislative measures. parliament’s own-initiative report also calls for such a combination in order to address as many angles as possible of this complex phenomenon. the legislative action that we aim to propose would be targeted legislation that will lay out procedural safeguards against slapp in cross-border civil proceedings. the proposal will need to ensure a careful balance of fundamental rights, freedom of speech and freedom of expression on the one hand, and access to justice for all, on the other hand. the legislative action would be complemented by non-legislative measures covering aspects such as raising awareness about slapp, training for judges and potential targets, support and monitoring of slapp cases. we are also considering recommendations to the member states to adopt legislation in the same direction as the legislation we planned for cross-border cases. our aim is to ensure the most efficient combination of measures we can envisage, while respecting subsidiarity and proportionality. i consider that such a package would best serve the purpose. the preparatory work is well under way, including the launch of a public consultation, which is ongoing. i also had a discussion with the justice ministers on 7 october, and we are pursuing both technical interactions and bilateral talks to explain our initiative. as a next step, we will organise a stakeholders’ meeting on 25 november, at which the two rapporteurs have kindly agreed to present the main findings of the european parliament report, for which i would like to thank you again, and i look forward to our discussion. finally, let me stress that the anti-slapp initiative will be reinforced by other actions to ensure a proper working environment for journalists and safeguarding media freedom and pluralism. this is in particular through the recently adopted recommendation on the safety of journalists and the upcoming action on a new european media freedom act. we need to act with determination and by tackling several angles so as to safeguard the democratic space, and i know i can count on your continued support in this regard.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. authoritarianism can easily replace democracy if we allow lies to replace truth. if you have power and you use it to stifle the truth, you become an autocrat. if you have power and you use it to persecute people for speaking the truth, you're a dictator. if you have power and you don't guarantee access to the truth and you don't protect people who are trying to get to the truth, then you're fostering authoritarianism. we have power, democratic power, from the citizens of the union. that's why we can't sit around and do nothing anymore, because we're breeding authoritarianism. that is why, as a parliament with a bipartisan consensus, we call on the commission to submit a directive to stop the destruction of our european democracy by slapp. today, tough legislation is necessary because we have been blind to the practice of muzzling journalists and the public for too long. we call for a special fund to support the victims of slapp, because these lawsuits are financially and psychologically draining the defenders of the truth in order to silence them. finally, we call for slapp to be recognized as a tool for systematically destroying media freedom and stifling civic activity. our freedom is at stake, because there is no freedom without the truth.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. 160 lawsuits in the last five years alone. the lawsuits that the authoritarian government is using to harass the free media in poland. dozens, hundreds of cases against citizens fighting in poland for eu values, human rights and the rule of law. and that's what we're talking about in our report on slapps. so, lawsuits that are not about getting justice, but about intimidating, silencing people and organizations that are uncomfortable with power. it's not a theory, it's a fact. the reality of the individuals who are being dragged through the courts by the powers that be, exposed to time, money and emotional exhaustion. as the european union, we cannot remain passive in the face of such practices. so we are calling on the commission to come forward with legislation to cut it. the government is supposed to serve the people, not harass them. the dimension of justice cannot be used to destroy political opponents. themis has her eyes covered. it means she's impartial, not blindly obedient to total authority, as you would like.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate tonight has shown two things. firstly, there is a basic ignorance of the european union treaties, which clearly indicate, based on the principle of subsidiarity, what internal order is and what the european parliament can do. secondly, i would like to raise a question which will be debated by all those who have spoken here so far. take it for the purposes of the argument. what i understand from your statements, honourable colleagues, is that you claim that the judiciary in your own countries is everywhere subordinated to corporate interests, is corrupt and works against the interests of its citizens. everyone who has spoken here is in fact saying that every single judiciary, every single member state, is working against the interests of its citizens. and i ask here, dear commissioner, who will take responsibility for telling who is a journalist and who is not? if a person claims to be a journalist and writes some untrue things about someone, should that person be held responsible for his words or not be held responsible for them? who will make the list of people who define themselves as journalists and those who can say what they want, when they want, without being responsible for their words?
madam president! public debate in the member states is increasingly limited. on the one hand, we have the blocking and censorship of content, especially under the guise of hate speech, and on the other hand, the abuse of legal mechanisms against journalists and citizens involved in public life. slapps are especially dangerous when a stronger actor tries to paralyze truth-seeking journalists under the pressure of lawsuits. however, defenses against intentional defamation by large media corporations cannot be considered slapps. sometimes it's these kinds of corporations that have made a living out of lying, trying to make political change through lying. politicians and democracy need to have a tool to defend against such actions. moreover, citizens must have the right to protect their personal good such as dignity, which is reflected in the right to sue for the protection of their good name. freedom of expression and the right to express one's views, even the most extreme ones, are fundamental rights, whose protection is guaranteed by the convention and by european union law. however, these issues should be regulated only at the level of the member states and only there.
in writing. in this debate, we are discussing the report on strengthening democracy and media freedom and pluralism in the eu in the light of the misuse of civil and criminal proceedings to silence journalists, ngos and civil society. unfortunately, there are practices that are aimed at intimidating or even forcing individual journalists or activists to stop publishing or acting. the main issue is slapp, or 'strategic lawsuits against public participation'. these are usually brought by influential individuals, companies or public authorities against journalists or activists. they may be designed to deter actors from acting or publishing for fear of legal costs or time-consuming proceedings, even if the court would ultimately rule against the party bringing the action. these are not hypothetical mechanisms: the murdered maltese investigative journalist daphne caruana galizia had 47 court cases against her at the time of her death. i believe that journalists should be protected and their private and family life should not be violated. but remember that not everything can or should be regulated at eu level. freedom of speech and the right to express one's views are fundamental rights that are guaranteed by eu law. these issues should be regulated at member state level.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, this agreement is clearly a step forward. for the first time in europe we will know from the multinationals how many activities they have in a given member state in relation to how many taxes they pay, and with this we will know exactly if they are using illusion practices. of course, we did not manage to have everything we wanted and not having the global disaggregated data is really a shame. and here we have to regret the very negative role of some member states that not only have been blocking the report in the council for five years, but also that have been downgrading the final deal in the council. but still, it's a step forward, and even if we do not have the global disaggregation, with having the european disaggregation we will cover more than 80% of the illusion practices that happen in our territory. and also, very importantly, i want to remind you of one of the clear victories of this parliament: we have a review clause in four years where we will be able to improve that legislation. so i think that tomorrow we need to adopt this, put the legislation in place and in four years make it better.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the expansion of country-specific disclosure is an important, long overdue success for greater tax transparency in europe. we're putting the spotlight on potential tax cheats. we have already shown that the principle can be successful. it does not solve the problem of tax evasion completely, but it helps us to understand where to start to make the tax cheats work. we have already revealed in the banking sector, in the first year, that 628 million euros of profits are generated in states where there is not a single employee. the european parliament has now been fighting for six years to ensure that the successful model we have already introduced for banks is now extended to large corporations. let's not go with the pace, but let's go with the tax avoidance. transparency helps us do that.
madam president, commissioner, after five years, we can finally say you can run, you can hide, but you can’t escape tax. the public country-by-country reporting (cbcr) that we are currently adopting, together with the minimum corporate tax rate and the profit reallocation mechanism, will make it more difficult for multinationals to escape paying tax, paying their fair share of tax. with cbcr, big corporations will have to show to the public eye their most crucial tax information concerning each member state, as well as data connected to their dealings in tax havens, which appear on the black and grey lists. with this in mind, the council should take further steps in assuring tax transparency. first, reform the tax haven blacklist. second, member states must use ambitious sanctions towards those who do not publish relevant information. tax havens cannot remain some kind of a club tropicana where drinks are free.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate my colleague michaela šojdrowa on her excellent and much-needed report on the european education area. automatic recognition of qualifications, diplomas or degrees is essential. to achieve this, it is necessary to establish an eu task force on the implementation of the bologna process, in which all stakeholders in the higher education sector will be represented. moreover, the digitisation of universities in the european union and the need to create a european online platform for universities is a key challenge. i would also like to emphasise the promotion of foreign language learning so that pupils have a sufficient knowledge of at least two other official languages of the european union. we must also not forget our teachers and educators. improving working conditions and the need to pay them a fair wage for their work is an essential element of the success of european education.
in writing. the opportunity to learn, study, train or conduct research in another member state provides a unique experience and opens up new perspectives. the creation of a european education area provides an opportunity to make the most of these opportunities. it's an ambitious and multifaceted project. one of its key elements is the european universities initiative. i would like to see it available to as many universities in europe as possible as soon as possible, so that the inclusive nature of this initiative is reflected in reality. the realisation of the idea of universal mobility is another cornerstone of the european education area. new opportunities for individual development will create the conditions for strengthening the eu economy as a whole and ensuring social cohesion. the european union's education and youth programmes, such as erasmus+ and the european solidarity corps, help to bridge the gaps in europe, to build contacts between countries, to foster cooperation and to deepen partnerships between educational institutions, schools and communities. the further dissemination and expansion of cooperation and partnerships in the next edition of the community's education and youth programmes is a necessary step in european cooperation in education and training. it should be borne in mind that any commitment in the field of education should take explicit account of the specificity, diversity and richness of the education and higher education systems of the individual member states, as well as the key role of the institutions and stakeholders responsible for education.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, as chair of the delegation for relations between the european union and the united states i’d like to congratulate the commission on the setting—up and launch of the trade and technology council. i believe it builds on the history of the successful coordinating committee from back in the 1980s and earlier, which stemmed the flow of modern technologies to what was then the communist bloc. in the 1990s, we were hoping that china and russia would join the world of free research, free enquiry and freedom in general, and that they would at least abide by the rules of the world trade organization. this has not happened. therefore, unfortunately, we have to stick together with our democratic allies to set minimum standards and to start stemming the abuses. so well done. i pledge the full support of my delegation to your work.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. there's a lot of good information coming out of the debate today about cooperation between the united states and europe. it would be good indeed if the standards for the use of new technologies and the use of trade as an instrument of economic development were imposed through the cooperation of the united states with the european union. so i wanted to ask you about a possible aspect of this collaboration. i ask you, commissioner, what place do you think the cooperation between the european union and the united states in the field of space will have in the future? this is where we can really offer a lot to the world, to put this part of the world -- space -- to good use in terms of economic challenges and international cooperation.
madam president! that was a very interesting discussion. i think that the cleanliness of the funding, the transparency of the funding of political parties is a very important issue. there must be transparency in this matter and the voters must also know which parties they are voting for. but i cannot imagine that this resolution and the discussion about the funding of political parties will be a cover for the discussion about the construction of a federal state. this cannot be the case and we simply have to ensure that there is national, geographical and social representation in the european parliament and in the national parliaments. and then we will all have clarity on how democracy works in the european union and in the european parliament.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! the ecr group's priorities for the european social security card are as follows: the new tool must have a realistic implementation framework and an equally realistic implementation timetable. secondly, the new instrument must respect, as far as possible, the differences in the functioning of social security systems in the various member states. thirdly, the new instrument should complement the existing eessi, i.e. the electronic system for the exchange of social security information, and should not duplicate existing capabilities and solutions. another condition: the new instrument is to coordinate, not harmonise, the functioning of social security systems. but it seems that the negotiated text of the resolution is good, meets our expectations and deserves support. the ecr will vote in favour of this proposal.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. but how do we get those larger amounts? let me be very clear: mining in protected natural areas is not allowed. we can't replace or repair those rare areas. they are crucial to preserving what little we have left of europe's biodiversity. there's also no public support for it, and that threatens to weaken the support for our green deal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. they want to open the door to large-scale mining in vulnerable natural areas. however, the solution to greater strategic independence in the long term is repair, recycling and ecodesign. so, colleagues, let me be clear: tomorrow, vote against mining in our natural areas and for a circular economy.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members of parliament, first of all i would like to thank you very much for this report on the establishment of a european strategy for critical raw materials. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, hildegard bentele, very much for this extremely important work - thank you very much, hildegard - and, of course, the fictitious rapporteurs, but also the members of the various committees who contributed to this work. you have said it, but i would like to repeat it in my own words, if i may: access to raw materials is really at the heart of our industrial policy. the pandemic has revealed this even more than before. now, with the recovery, of course, we realize that the resilience of our value chains within the internal market itself, but also in terms of the green transition and the digital transition, is clearly dependent on our ability to ensure the security of supply of the essential value chains. the conclusion is simple and the same everywhere: europe has allowed a strong dependence on sources of supply in third countries to develop - perhaps too strong. rare earths, magnesium, lithium, graphite are obviously all the necessary components for everything that makes up our green transition and our digital transition -- batteries, but also all the critical components that we're going to talk about a lot in the years and decades to come. but our raw material needs will obviously increase considerably. for example, we're going to need 60 times more lithium and 15 times more cobalt by 2050 for electric batteries alone, and 10 times more rare earths. this, of course, without mentioning the raw material requirements for all industrial applications that will accompany the digital transition, especially in semiconductors, but not only. we have seen how geopolitics, what i call the geopolitics of value chains, is at work for our systemic partners or rivals. i say the geopolitics of value chains because that is what it is all about. our dependencies have become geostrategic instruments which are often used against us and our interests. and that can have serious consequences. we are seeing it, for example, in semiconductors, in terms of our ability to produce, or even to recover from the crisis we have been through and are still going through. this is particularly true, of course, for the whole of access to critical raw materials. this is why, just over a year ago, you will recall, in september 2020, the commission adopted an action plan on critical raw materials. your report clearly shows the alignment, if i may say so, of our two institutions in the analysis of the situation. so we are very much in sync, if i may say so, and we are converging on the need to build our resilience in strategic value chains. this work is based on three pillars. first, diversifying our sources of supply. strategic partnerships have already been established with some countries, such as canada and ukraine. we have started to get closer to some african countries as well, which are important in this regard. we will continue to rely on international trade, which is of course open and unbiased. whether it is our partners or our competitors, we must of course do so, and i repeat this in this house, without naivety: we must anticipate and counter any attempt to use access to raw materials as a means of geopolitical pressure on the union and its businesses - what can be called hybrid threats and which we see in other areas, alas! the second point i would like to highlight in this report concerns the circular economy. it is a pillar of our joint work, not only for the purpose of 'greening', if i may say so, but also to improve security of supply and, therefore, obviously, to reduce our strategic dependencies. we have proposed this, for example, in our proposal for the battery regulation, by aiming for higher recycling rates, in particular for lithium, cobalt, graphite or nickel. a similar approach could be used for other critical raw materials, such as rare earths, which you mentioned earlier, madam rapporteur, and also in areas where production is almost exclusively concentrated, so to speak, outside the union. we also agreed that recycling of critical raw materials, while essential, will not be enough on its own to meet the increased demand for these raw materials. let us remember that the increase in demand and our level of green and digital ambition are, as i have often said, intrinsically linked. the third point i would like to bring up quickly with you tonight, if i may, is national capacity development. that's an important point. we really need to talk about it because, of course, it exists. we have the resources. we've identified them in our report and yours. you also note the need for favourable conditions for low-emission and sustainable mining activities in the european union, and this is of course a very important point. unlike other jurisdictions, our legal framework strikes the right balance between three imperatives: protecting the environment, the effective and constructive participation of local communities, without which nothing can be done, and meeting our raw material needs. the maintenance and development of environmentally friendly sources of supply, around extraction and production practices that respect european standards and values, is obviously an imperative condition for the success of the green and digital transitions not to be at the mercy of the often unpredictable geopolitical tensions that we are already experiencing. we are working hand in hand with member states to ensure that industrial projects are born in europe and that we can actually, in a concrete and tangible way, reduce our dependencies, support innovation, but also ensure the resilience of europe, and this, of course, in full respect of our environmental and biodiversity commitments. as such, we have launched an industry alliance which recently published an action plan for a sustainable, competitive permanent magnet value chain. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that the report you are debating this evening, which i hope you will adopt, supports our analysis of the approach we have adopted as a result of our strategy. you can of course count on me to continue to act swiftly and strongly on these issues which are clearly at the heart of our industrial renewal, but also of a more geopolitical europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, i congratulate mrs bentele on her excellent work on the report. access to critical raw materials is key to the green transition and the digital transition. renewables, fuel cells and batteries, as well as the entire field of robotics, only develop with access to these resources. europe needs to have more control over its production chains. we cannot rely so much on imports, hence the importance of the strategy for critical raw materials. it is essential to ensure the lowest possible environmental impact, but scientific and technological advances in mining give us assurances that this is possible, provided that sustainability is a precondition. it is also essential to address the impacts on local communities. and let's not forget the importance of reusing materials.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. we have adopted new climate targets, we have reached an agreement in glasgow. in practice, this means more renewable energy, investments in energy efficiency, the development of electromobility. that's why raw materials are so important, both critical and basic. and it's good that we're talking about it today. the figures show that as the european union - and this has already been said - we are very dependent on third countries. for example, for lithium, china's share is 55%, for cobalt it is also 65% and for rare earths it is almost 90%. there are many more examples, and this is relevant in the context of investments in electric cars, batteries and many other green ventures. do we really need to source materials from outside the european union on such a scale? should we not be committed to supporting our sources, our mines and our metallurgy, to meet the demand for raw materials and at the same time develop this sector of the economy and at the same time the industries in europe? i think we should be very strong and responsible in linking climate policy with industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, certain rare metals and materials are necessary for the green transition, because they are key components of batteries and renewable technologies. however, the pandemic has exposed europe's vulnerability in supplying these raw materials, as well as our dependence on foreign countries for a whole range of absolutely strategic resources. to avoid this in the future, i believe it will be essential to explore new international partnerships, but the commission also proposes to increase the exploration and extraction of raw materials here in europe. as an entrepreneur, i fully understand the reasons for this choice, but i would like to remind you that any extractive activity must be carried out in agreement with the local communities, respecting safety and environmental standards and preserving our delicate ecosystems and biodiversity in europe. the protection of the environment, ladies and gentlemen, is not an end in itself, but is essential for the development of many other productive sectors, which are equally important, such as agriculture and tourism, on which a large part of our economies is based. it is therefore absolutely essential to ensure europe's strategic autonomy, but this must not turn into a new gold rush at the expense of our citizens, their health and our environment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i quote from mrs bentele's report: only 1% of the raw materials for wind turbines, less than 1% of lithium batteries, less than 1% of fuel cells, only 2% of the raw materials relevant to robotics and only 1% of silicon photovoltaic modules are sourced or produced in europe. on the other hand, we have set ourselves the most ambitious climate targets. i think it's obvious that we need a smart resource policy. two issues are of particular importance to me. first, we need to increase domestic sourcing of critical raw materials. in europe, we have a unique opportunity to mine sustainably, using a process that meets the highest environmental and social standards in the world. i think we should not oppose this. secondly, we will of course continue to have to source critical raw materials from third countries. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i think we all know in this room that the green transition and meeting europe's climate goals is not possible without critical raw materials. electric cars can't run without lithium in their batteries, wind turbines can't produce energy without generators that contain neodymium or dysprosium. i therefore believe that it is essential to ensure the safety and security of supply of these raw materials and thus to allow their sustainable extraction in europe, based on high environmental standards and appropriate working conditions. in this context, it is also important to involve local and regional authorities more in the extraction of these raw materials and to improve their recycling in the european union. we also need a strategic, comprehensive approach to critical raw materials, i.e. properly evaluating exports and imports, exploiting the full potential of existing mines or recycling. we also need to ensure adequate research funding to improve the efficiency of critical raw materials and downstream production processes.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you very much again for this exchange which confirms our collective interest, beyond critical raw materials as such, in our resilience. because, as i said, what is at stake is europe's position in this new global geopolitics of value chains. this is a prerequisite for european strategic autonomy. i also agree that we need to use new technologies to enable extractions that are more environmentally and biodiversity friendly, in order to set new standards of extraction for us, but also elsewhere. these are the standards which we obviously have to think about in many source countries. we have the opportunity here to impose new, more sustainable extraction criteria, which are once again more respectful of our environment, of biodiversity, of what underpins the uniqueness of our planet. we will be able to reconcile the protection of the environment with the satisfaction of our needs. and i remind you that we need these raw materials to accelerate the transformation of our economies, our industries and our societies. i repeat, our strategy is based on three pillars. first, diversification of sources of supply. then there is the circular economy and, finally, the development of new capacities in this area. all three pillars are necessary and mutually reinforcing. we have said this throughout the debate, and this is the meaning of our work. of course, you can count on me to do that. thank you very much for this very important debate which has made this no less important report possible.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place tomorrow and the final vote will take place on wednesday 24 november 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the debate on a strategy for raw materials critical to the european economy could not have come at a better time. the pandemic supply and demand shocks have made clear the dependence of the european economy on global commodity markets. the community is entering an era of change associated with the green new deal. the energy transition will require increased access to raw materials. their safeguarding becomes part of the eu's strategic autonomy. the community must take action in the fields of industrial, commercial and environmental policy. in the interests of preserving the union's independence, it is necessary to initiate and increase extraction within its borders, to make smarter use of available materials and to adopt a circular economy and the recovery of minerals from waste. however, we must also respect the principles of sustainable mineral exploitation, environmental principles and respect for the rights of local communities. the union should mobilise trade policy instruments to counter the constraints on the availability of raw materials on international markets. in this context, it is worth mentioning cooperation with ukraine and the western balkan countries, as well as cooperation with partners interested in the development of global commodity markets, such as canada, japan and the usa. both the eu's industrial and trade policies, while respecting the principles of environmental protection and sustainable development, must lead to greater resource independence for the eu and thus to greater strategic autonomy.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. it is always interesting to talk about the budget of the european union, and in particular to talk about the impact of the budget on individual countries and the european union as a whole. transparency in the spending and accounting of funds is also very interesting. but i would remind you that this regulation was discussed three years ago, and has been discussed again, and we are still waiting for an assessment of the amendment of that regulation. so i suggest that we don't be too hasty, because sometimes we just have a situation where very good solutions are the enemy of good ones -- old, established solutions. in my view, this regulation should deal with the elimination of derogations from budgetary principles and non-compliance with financial rules. that's our first rule. we should also simplify the implementation of the european union's economic recovery measures. and you have to look at all things from the perspective of efficiency. and as for the rule of law, which is also included here, i will just say that last week a senior official of the european commission said that poland has had no problems with the use of eu funds in recent years. and the strasbourg room and the brussels room are often the place where such resolutions against poland are adopted. so let us not confuse this regulation, let us proceed with prudence, and then the union will succeed.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would like to thank you. sports not only change the world, but they change the lives of many people. sport has the power to unite people across racial, religious, gender, cultural and socioeconomic lines. it helps us to be healthy and happy and teaches us skills that are valuable at any age. sport is an increasingly important economic sector, generating almost 3% of the union's gdp and providing jobs for almost six million people. however, sport in europe is also at an important crossroads. it has been more than 10 years since the treaty of lisbon gave the european union a mandate to act in the field of sport. the pandemic has been extremely difficult for the sports industry, especially at the amateur level. therefore, sport and its values need greater visibility and action in the union. i think it's crucial that all the organisations involved in sport and the government institutions work together. they should develop common objectives and a coherent plan of action for the future. sport should be re-introduced in the portfolio of the responsible eu commissioner and the european commission should appoint a separate coordinator for sport. i would like to see a sports intergroup in parliament re-established in the future. it is important that sport can benefit from other eu policies in the areas of health, employment, youth, education, the internal market and the environment. to this end, sport policy requires further mainstreaming and coordination. it's a recipe for success for the next decade. one of our key tasks is to develop a model of sport in europe based on values, solidarity, fairness and inclusion in open competitions. the main challenge we face is to promote the european model of sport and protect it from threats such as the recently famous super league. today we're sending a very clear message: sports are for everyone. we need to strike the right balance between the pursuit of commercial interests and the social functions of sport. we need to make sure it's safe, accessible, inclusive and equal for all. it should serve and benefit everyone, not just the professionals. that is why we propose in the report that more funding be given to sport at local level and that more money be redistributed between professional and amateur sport. this is essential to support less lucrative sports, such as women's and youth tournaments, which are important for the long-term development of the sport. sport should benefit from an increased share of funding not only under cohesion policy but also under the new instrument for recovery and resilience. providing additional funding for sport is a matter of the utmost importance. in future programmes, such as erasmus plus, sport should receive even more funding, it should support the transition to a sustainable and innovative future. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related aspects of sport on the union's overall climate and environmental performance. there is also a need for a new, more collective approach to sport management. all representatives should be involved in this management, including leagues, clubs, athletes, fans or volunteers. specific measures should be taken to promote organisational diversity and social inclusion. we also need more women in management positions. this increased effort is necessary to ensure democracy, transparency and accountability. moreover, sport cannot serve dictators, which is why we call for an end to the organization of large events in countries where fundamental rights and values are constantly violated. sports organisations must respect the established frequency of major international sporting events, putting the health of athletes first. in conclusion, i would like to thank all the members of the committee on culture and education, in particular the co-rapporteurs and all the advisers who worked on this report. i would also like to thank the representatives of the european commission, the slovenian presidency of the council of europe and the many sports organisations, federations, athlete representatives and fans who took part in the consultation i organised. i can say with confidence that the final shape of this report is the result of very good negotiations and great teamwork. i hope this result will be reflected in tomorrow's vote, as it is an important political signal for the entire sports sector.
in writing. defending the traditional model of sport is crucial in the face of the excessive commercialisation of sports organisations. sport is for the greater good, not for the interests of a few. the fight against threats to integrity in sport should remain a priority and all public action in the field of sport must be based on the principle of equal access and non-discrimination. however, it should be noted that the new risks arising from the abolition of the gender category in sports competitions by the ioc and its replacement by a gender category are also to be noted. the tokyo olympics marked the first time that transgender athletes were allowed to compete. women were once denied the right to participate in professional sports, today, although they have the right, their participation in sports is less than men's, and in the future, transvestite athletes may lead to the decline of women's sports in general. one thing is certain: as a consequence of the elimination of biological sex as an objective criterion in sports competitions, women in sport are at risk. the following cases prove that such a policy will lead to the total collapse of women's sports competition. even the radical feminists think so. the case of the felieton of one of the world's most outstanding tennis players, martina navratilova, is characteristic, and has been strongly criticized by lgbt communities. if equality of opportunity is to be maintained, men posing as women should not be allowed to compete in women's sports. let's speak up for fair play for women.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! i support the adoption of the report on the pharmaceutical strategy for europe because i support efforts to ensure that medicines are available and affordable for all patients. long before the pandemic, i had been campaigning for the restoration of the independence of the production of medicines and had been involved in parliament's work to ensure the safety of medicines on our continent. in the context of the strategy, i believe that concrete action should be taken to address inequalities in such a way that access to medicines and the sharing of medicines can take place in the shortest possible time in all member states. while we need to support efforts to strengthen measures to foster innovation, we should also think about maintaining free access to generic and biosimilar medicines with the health of patients at the heart, creating a future-oriented and crisis-resistant pharmaceutical system. a wise man learns from his mistakes, a shrewd man learns from the mistakes of others. in the current situation, building on the lessons learned from the covid-19 pandemic, europe can still learn from its own failures to better respond to the medical needs of its citizens, placing them at the heart of all policies supported by member states.
in writing. the european parliament must take the side of farmers. it took months of hard negotiations for us to be able to debate today the next seven years of the common agricultural policy. a lot of people in this house, for a long time, didn't get the gist of this debate. and that is that european farmers are the ones who put good quality and safe food on our table. therefore, if we impose unrealistic environmental requirements on them, we endanger the food supply of european citizens. it took the agricultural ministers of the member states to take a firm stand before a compromise proposal was finally put forward. a proposal that strikes a balance between supporting farming and protecting nature. we are living in a time of crisis that we could not have imagined before. the reason why quality food is still on store shelves is that we can always count on farmers. but today, they're counting on us! let's send them a clear message, then. i ask you all to support the proposal for a common agricultural policy.
in writing. the common agricultural policy is one of the key eu policies. it is directly applicable in all member states. it carries out tasks of a social and economic dimension, but also purely political ones. this is evidenced by the wide range of cap objectives. increasing the productivity of european agriculture, supporting technical progress in rural areas, developing production and stabilising agricultural markets are just some of them. the cap also plays an important role in ensuring an adequate standard of living for rural people by supporting farmers' incomes. it is also an important element of the union's internal market, since it is designed to ensure that, in addition to stabilising national markets, agricultural products are reasonably priced for all consumers. over the decades of its existence, the cap has been reformed on several occasions. now, with the entry into force of the new eu multiannual budget, it is time for another review. the union and the member states are facing new environmental and climate challenges. i believe that among the many changes planned for the cap after 2023, changes are needed in the definition of agricultural activity so that subsidies go to people actually engaged in agricultural production and not to owners of latifundia aimed only at receiving eu subsidies. increased support for small farms and young farmers, as well as greater transparency and compliance of the reform with labour law. in this context, the european parliament should give its unambiguous support to the adoption of a package of regulations reforming the common agricultural policy.
in writing. the common agricultural policy plays a key role in the union budget and is of great importance to countries such as lithuania, where agriculture is a significant sector of the economy. the cap offers direct payments and funds to farmers under the second pillar, which is a major help not only for food security but also for investment and employment in rural areas. the cap cuts are unacceptable. for this reason, the cap should focus on core areas of activity and the cap allocation for the eu-27 for the period 2021-2027 should remain at least at the level of the 2014-2020 budget, while providing for a starting amount for the reserve in case of crises in the agricultural sector. the continuing discrimination against farmers in the so-called new member states on the basis of unequal payments must also be stopped. harmonisation of the levels of direct payments in the member states is essential to ensure a level playing field in the single internal market. there is an urgent need for a fair distribution of direct payments between member states. the new cap must also include tailor-made measures to help farmers overcome crises and more support for small farms and young farmers. these should be the main priorities of the future cap.
before we go to the votes, i would like to give the floor to mrs maria grapini, who has asked to speak on her report on the digitisation of european reporting, monitoring and auditing.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we are voting on a very important report today and i would like to thank the committee on budgetary control for entrusting me with this report. this is the resolution amending the regulation on the financial rules applicable to the budget of the european union. in private life, we learned that it's not enough to have a budget, it's very important how we spend it, and here the report is based on the existing situation and the audit that the budget control commission did in september 2021. what's going on? what's going on? at the moment, we have reporting and control and audit systems in different member states, over 250 systems. it's very important that we synchronize them, that we have the same reporting system. it is very important to increase transparency, because everything started with the idea of knowing the final beneficiary of european funds. we, the european parliament, have repeatedly asked the european commission to tell us who the first 50 final beneficiaries are for all european funds, from the cap to regional development funds, and we have not succeeded. i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to make the necessary changes to the proposal, and i would like to thank all the groups in this parliament for accepting the points i have put forward as rapporteur. we have no amendments but i urge you to vote on this report. why would you do that? we ask the commission, first of all, to amend the regulation and to come up with concrete proposals to show how european funds are going to the final beneficiary, because there is now in all the member states, through intermediaries, money that goes to and is concentrated in certain very large companies and we are missing small and medium-sized enterprises. we made it very clear that anyone who owns at least 15% of a large company should submit to this control. of course, it is incomprehensible why, when olaf finds out that a company is not spending european money properly, why it is not put on the blacklist. we ask the commission to think about this, to prevent other european funds from being accessed. i think it is very important that today's vote goes ahead, and we ask the commission as soon as possible after today's vote to think about how to amend this regulation because for us and for the citizens, after all, the efficiency of spending european money is very important and we will not be able to know this if there is no transparency.
we now come to today's vote. the vote will be taken on the items on the agenda. the vote will be taken at 1 p.m. today. the same voting procedure as at the previous partsession shall apply. the items on the agenda are shown. all votes shall be cast by name. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, explanations of vote may be up to 400 words. i declare the voting open. we'll announce the result at 4:00. the debate will resume at 15.00 with the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council of 21 and 22 october 2021. (the sitting was suspended at 12.06 p.m.)
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council of 21 and 22 october 2021 (2021/2895 ((rsp)). i would like to welcome president charles michel and president ursula von der leyen, who are here with us today. i would like to inform the honourable members that this debate is taking place with a round of speeches by the political groups. i would remind you that the catching-the-eye and the blue-card procedure are not foreseen for all the discussions in this part-session. in addition, as in the case of recent meetings, remote intervention is planned from the parliament's liaison offices in the member states. i now give the floor to president charles michel.
council of the european union. mr president of the european parliament, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, first of all i would like to express our deepest condolences to the victims of the tragic bus accident in bulgaria and also to express our thoughts to north macedonia, where many of the victims were from. ladies and gentlemen, our last european council meeting was a very intensive one, where we tackled many of the current pressing challenges. first, we addressed the current spike in energy prices and its impact on families and businesses. in particular, it affects vulnerable citizens and smes that are striving to recover from the pandemic. the european council welcomed the toolbox presented by the commission on short-term relief measures. member states and the commission are invited to make the best possible use of this toolbox. we also invited the commission to study the functioning of the gas and electricity market and the eu ets market with the help of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators and the european securities and markets authority. both agencies have in the meantime given preliminary analysis ahead of the european council in december. in any case, this price hike shows that we need an energy market that contributes to affordable prices, that is resilient and provides for stability and security of supply, and supports the transition to climate neutrality. in this respect, we are also looking forward to the commission's forthcoming proposals on the strengthening of the gas market. we also invited the european investment bank to speed up investment in energy transition. one point was made clear by many leaders. the current price problem is not a reason to relax our climate ambitions. on the contrary, it shows how much this transition is urgent, existential and necessary. the european council will come back to this important issue in december. on covid-19 we see cases rising, so we must remain extremely vigilant. our internal coordination is once again needed and crucial in order to ensure that measures are as current as possible. vaccination campaigns are moving in the right direction, but we must make a final push by overcoming vaccine hesitancy and tackling misinformation. we must remain committed to international solidarity, because the only way to ensure our safety is to ensure that everyone else in the world is safe through the global rollout of vaccines. ladies and gentlemen, we also had a strategic debate on trade, and the european council agrees that trade is a powerful instrument that brings increased job creation and growth. we must use trade to support our prosperity and to promote our social and environmental priorities, as well as our fundamental values. i know this is a concern your assembly shares, and together we must clarify our goals and set clear priorities. we want to build a level playing field. we want greater reciprocity. we want to protect our planet and promote our values, and we need to improve the process. that means greater transparency from mandate to ratification, and this would help ensure public and parliamentary support. i think our brexit negotiations for example, could serve as an inspiring model. we also had the opportunity to discuss the digital revolution and our ambitions in this area, because we are convinced that it can be a driver for prosperity, innovation, jobs and competitiveness. in this context, we noted the importance of making progress in the legislative work, especially on the laws on digital services and the law on the digital market. and we are pleased that the council is now ready to start and engage in negotiations with parliament on this subject. we also want to say that we support the enormous work being done by the commission in this context, particularly in connection with the important subject of semiconductors. we also noted the importance of mobilizing to strengthen our capacities when facing cybersecurity threats. we believe that our european response capacity needs to be strengthened, for example by developing crisis and incident management capacities. we also considered that digital connectivity is a subject that must mobilise us by bringing the values that bring us together - the values of trust, the values of transparency and the values of accountability - values that we share with other countries outside the european union and for which we believe that we need to intensify dialogues to bring together, as much as possible, similar standards on this important subject. ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, as you know, we also had a debate on the rule of law. it was the opportunity to identify the exact difficulties and better understand different points of view. our debate took place in a respectful atmosphere. the rule of law, including the independence of the judiciary, is fundamental, and on the existing legal and institutional instruments have already been activated and others could still be triggered. but leaders also agreed that the political dialogue needs to continue in order to find common solutions. dialogue and respect are also necessary, and we know that sometimes rhetoric can make things more difficult. i hope our debate within the european council facilitated our common understanding and was a step, i hope a positive step, that should help, that would help lead to solutions. we also had a wide-ranging discussion on migration. this is always a difficult issue, but it is imperative to tackle this important challenge. we are determined to fully control our external borders, to prevent illegal migration, to prevent the loss of life, to prevent the exploitation of migrants by smugglers, and we will not accept the distress of human beings, of migrants, to be used for political purposes. we condemn such hybrid attacks at the eu's borders, and we also had the opportunity to discuss the implementation and follow-up of the conclusions of our june meeting. the aim is to strengthen the external dimension of migration, and this includes intensifying mutually beneficial partnerships and cooperation with third countries. the commission has prepared action plans for key countries, and now it is important to implement them as soon as possible. we also discussed the internal dimension. the migration package has been on the table for many months, and we know there are different positions. this remains very sensitive, but we felt a renewed sense that work on this must be taken forward. now, dear colleagues, a few words on the situation at the belarus border. i visited poland on 10 november and expressed the union's full solidarity with poland, lithuania and latvia. this is not only an attack on their borders, this is a hybrid attack on our common european borders and we condemn this attack. we will not allow the belarus regime to intimidate us and to undermine our values and our unity. since our european council meetings, events have continued to unfold. so what have we done to address this crisis, which is also a humanitarian crisis? first, the foreign affairs council adopted an expanded legal basis for sanctions to include additional sectors. one example: the majority of the fleet of belavia are aircraft leased from eu companies. this will be halted when the decision is taken, which is imminent. second point, we've also taken concrete action to stop airlines from carrying migrants to minsk. my own diplomatic team had positive talks, for example, with the dutch authorities, but also with other countries such as the emirates or uzbekistan or others. and as a result of our joint efforts together with the commission, turkish airlines has decided to stop allowing belavia to effectively funnel migrants to minsk. theyve also stopped issuing one way tickets to minsk from istanbul to the key nationalities concerned. other companies have taken similar decisions and commission vicepresident schinas has travelled to a number of countries in the region: iraq, emirates, turkey and lebanon. he has successfully obtained their cooperation and i commend his work. i also met, during my visit to poland, with prime minister morawiecki to assess the situation, to discuss how poland and the eu can best cooperate, and we also managed to get in touch with the other eu leaders in the region. the german chancellor has also called mr putin and lukashenko twice to help address the humanitarian crisis. the belarus authorities have since adopted a few measures that seem to be more positive, but it is too early to assess whether this will mark a real change in their position. that's why we must remain cautious. yet some of the most vulnerable migrants have been accommodated in a warehouse, and belarus has cooperated with iraq, allowing them to organise a repatriation flight of 700 iraqis. we welcome the cooperation with the international organization for migration and unhcr. we call on belarus to provide both organizations with full access to provide humanitarian assistance and to help organize voluntary returns to countries of origin. my assessment is twofold. my analysis of the situation is twofold. on the one hand, our unity and joint actions as a team have produced results. we have more or less stopped the arrival of migrants in belarus. flows have been reduced considerably. we are not destabilized by this attack, but we must continue to be vigilant and to act. secondly, my second point concerns the humanitarian situation. we cannot turn a blind eye to this humanitarian situation and we must be determined to work so that assistance can be allocated specifically to those on the ground who are suffering from this situation. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the summary of this european council. we also had the opportunity, of course, to discuss some of the issues related to preparations for external relations, in particular the cop 26, which ended some time ago, but also the forthcoming summits we will be holding, particularly in the framework of the eastern partnership, but also with asean. i am at your disposal to respond to your comments and questions.
president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i too would like to express my condolences to the families and relatives of the victims of this terrible bus accident. our thoughts are with you. as with every european council in recent months, our first topic was covid. the pressure of the pandemic is not over. many member states are facing another wave because of the delta variant. but now, thanks to vaccination, we are in a better position than ever to break this wave. the vaccines actually do protect. the data shows that vaccinated people are significantly less likely to become severely ill with covid, to be hospitalized, or to die from it. it is also clear that in most countries, intensive care beds are now occupied mainly by patients who are not vaccinated or who are only partially vaccinated. the connection is clear. if we look at this: in countries like portugal or spain, for example, where 80 to 90 percent of adults are vaccinated, the risk of dying from covid in the first two weeks of november was up to 30 times lower than in countries with the lowest vaccination rates. if we look at hospitalization rates and mortality rates, we're looking at a pandemic of the unvaccinated first and foremost. that is why our top priority is and remains to keep pushing vaccination. we still have huge differences in the european union. in some member states, only 29% of adults are fully vaccinated, while in others, the figure is over 92%. we need to better understand why some people aren't vaccinated. we must be more determined to educate and inform. we need to go to every city, every village, to convince people to get vaccinated and protect themselves and protect others. in addition, we need booster shots for those who have already been vaccinated. we are fortunate to have enough vaccines in europe. you'll remember, we had a lot of discussions. in the summer of this year, the commission concluded the third contract with biontech-pfizer: 1.8 billion doses of vaccine. this is now the basis for really europe-wide booster vaccinations and for the vaccination of children and teenagers. i would like to point out again that all the member states are parties to this treaty. that's good. so let's keep following the science! booster shots help us maintain immune protection against the virus. vaccinations are without a doubt our most important protection against the pandemic. however, additional measures are needed to slow the spread of the virus: this is distance, this is masks, this is hygiene. all of this remains important. i know that many of us are getting really tired of it. but we must remember one thing: in the european union, an average of 1,600 people died of covid every day last week. 1600 people a day. that's why vaccinations and sanitation are an act of solidarity. and they save lives. another topic of the european council meeting was the evolving situation on our border with belarus. a particularly cruel form of hybrid threat has emerged, with the statesponsored instrumentalization of people for political ends. it is the european union as a whole that is being challenged. this has been initiated and organized by the lukashenko regime and its supporters, luring people to the border with the cooperation of migrant smugglers and criminal networks. when the crisis escalated about two weeks ago, i was visiting the united states and the white house, and of course the outrageous behavior of the belarus regime was the focus of my discussions with president biden. we both agreed that this is not a migration crisis. this is the attempt of an authoritarian regime to try to destabilize its democratic neighbors a regime that held fraudulent elections, a regime that violently represses its own people, a regime that we do not recognize. this cynical blackmail has had just the opposite effect. the whole of europe stands united in solidarity with lithuania, poland and latvia on this issue, and europe is acting at exceptional speed on four tracks: humanitarian support; diplomatic outreach to the countries of origin; sanctions against people and entities in belarus and sanctions against transport operators facilitating human trafficking and smuggling; and protection of the border. first, on humanitarian support, what the lukashenko regime is doing is exploiting human beings by taking advantage of their suffering and provoking violence and loss of life for political purposes. these people are trapped on belarusian territory because of the recklessness of the lukashenko regime, and these people need help. this is why we immediately got in touch with the un agencies, the international organization for migration (iom) and the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr). we have set up a contact group with them, we are in constant contact and we immediately mobilized funding to support their efforts on the ground. second, on our diplomatic outreach, here too i discussed with president biden to align our efforts. we agreed that, to counter this behaviour, it is important to coordinate our sanctions and to work with the countries of origin and with the airlines that are transporting migrants to minsk. that is what we have done and that is what we are doing. we are in the process of coordinating our sanctions with the united states, canada and the united kingdom. i immediately tasked vice president schinas to engage with the key countries. he's been to iraq, the united arab emirates, lebanon and turkey, and he's going to uzbekistan soon. high representative and vice-president borrell convened the foreign affairs council to expand the sanctions regime, and commissioner johansson was in egypt. i would like to thank all three of them for their successful and tireless work. we can already see the impact on the ground. we see that several airlines and civil aviation authorities have stopped unwarranted travel to belarus. furthermore, iraq has begun repatriating nationals stranded in belarus. we very much welcome this very good cooperation with iraq. but more migrants are trapped, and we will work with the un agencies to facilitate their return home. we will mobilise up to eur 3.5 million to support voluntary returns to belarus, and our efforts and this outreach will continue. mon troisième point porte sur les sanctions. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the strategy of belarus is based very concretely on the complicity of the tour operators and their intermediaries. there are indeed specialist travel agencies offering all-inclusive services: visas, flights, hotels and, in a rather cynical manner, taxis and buses up to the border. we are very clear: these migrants are being deceived by infamous false promises. we must really fight against this and that is why we propose to establish a blacklist for all means and modes of transport, on the basis of international legislation on the trafficking and smuggling of migrants. the commission is today presenting a legislative proposal to that effect. this proposal should be adopted in codecision, so i say to the members that i am counting on your swift action to adopt it as soon as possible. fourth and last point: the management of frontiers. our position has always been to support our member states in the front line, both in the east and in the south. the european union is the only institution in the world which is able to do so. we are currently deploying important efforts. in the new european budget, €6.4 billion is available for border management. we finance equipment such as electronic surveillance technologies, patrol vehicles, equipment for border guards and the construction of border crossing points, but also satellite images and critical infrastructure. it is the management of the frontiers that we support. in addition, we spend about €1 billion per year for frontex and, today, the college has decided to do even more. we propose to triple the funds currently allocated to lithuania, latvia and poland. this package of security measures must make it possible to cope with the current emergency and underline our solidarity with the member states situated on the front line. member states facing such a hybrid attack must be able to respond effectively to the emergency situation they face. at the same time, they need to fully respect fundamental rights and international obligations. both points are crucial and we need to find a way to reconcile them. we are therefore working on a proposal for provisional emergency measures in the area of asylum and return, based on article 78 (3) of the treaty. the aim is to support member states to set up the right processes to manage irregular arrivals in a swift and orderly way, in line with fundamental rights. last, but not least, what is happening at the border with belarus belongs to a broader context. recent actions by the lukashenko regime and its supporters are a determined attempt to create a continuing and protracted crisis. let me repeat: the european union does not recognise this regime, which violently represses its own people. these actions are part of a concerted effort to destabilize the european union and our neighborhood. this includes ukraine and moldova in particular. these actions represent a real and present danger to our union's security. these actions go beyond belarus. they are testing our resolve and unity. but the european union has the will, the unity and the resolve to face this and future crises, and with your support, honourable members, we will stand the test. this is why today, more than ever, i say long live europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, today i do not start with a problem, i want to start with a solution. traditionally we start with problems, but today i want to do it the other way around, because this morning and this lunchtime we voted in favour of the agricultural reform of the european union, a big part of our budget for rural areas, for the independence of food production in europe, for a more ecologically responsible behaviour in europe. we took a good step. i say this as an example that this model of bringing things together, compromising on issues, is needed more than ever before in a time when we have so many challenges in front of us. we are compromising and we are delivering. that’s the main message. i think the slovenian presidency did a good job. i think also the french presidency in front of us will do a good job. we want to deliver now. that is our main aim. the top issues of the last council meetings are in a way still there, even having in mind that we are already four weeks after the last council, and the top issue for sure – when we talk about the concerns of our citizens – is still covid. the virus is powerfully back and i think europe as a whole is prepared. we ordered enough vaccine doses for our citizens, so we are prepared. we have to tell our citizens that the only chance to overcome it is to be vaccinated, to go for the vaccination. that’s the only chance to do it. my political appeal is hopefully we will not see more and more countries where vaccination is misused by party political interests, because that is growing even among the democratic landscape in the european union. i hope that we can overcome this and we together try to convince our citizens. the second top issue is belarus, and again good politics start with good analysis of the situation. i am happy that now more and more people understand that this is not a migration crisis, it’s a hybrid war going on. my first message is congratulations to the commission and to the council. together, with margaritis schinas as the responsible vice—president, we have managed to stop new arrivals in minsk, in belarus, and that is a great achievement, because europe did it, not the member states. we together managed this. i want to also give a clear message of support to the border guard, who are currently defending the european border. they are the persons who are defending europe against this hybrid war and if we can create more legal certainty with an additional, let me say, review of what is currently the legal base, if we can give them more clarity about what they can do and what they should do, then i think that’s absolutely welcome. we cannot, as the epp, accept any kind of deal with lukashenko. let me be clear on this. he created the problem. he has to solve the problem. in concrete terms, we don’t support any kind of humanitarian corridor to the european union. lukashenko wants to set an example that he won, and we cannot accept this. the message is that we are firm on the external border. another aspect – and that is equally important – is to care about the victims, because the people on the ground are not the problem, they are the victims. that’s why all activities together with the united nations are welcomed and necessary, and we should again underline that this development on the eastern border of europe is a wake—up call for all of us. we have to conclude the migration dossier. we have to come to a common understanding on how to manage this subject in the long run. und wenn sie erlauben, möchte ich am schluss noch ein thema ansprechen, das beim rat zentral im mittelpunkt stand, nämlich die rechtsstaatsfrage. es war auf der tagesordnung. wir sind froh, dass es diskutiert worden ist. vielleicht ist das schon der größte erfolg, dass es überhaupt mal diskutiert worden ist. also, wir sind froh. aber wenn man sich anschaut, dass wir in der europäischen union mitgliedstaaten haben, die eugh—urteile nicht akzeptieren, die antikorruption nicht umsetzen, womit die gefahr besteht, dass sie gelder missbrauchen, die disziplinarkammern haben, die einen klaren bruch der unabhängigkeit der justiz mit bedeuten, dann ist man schon enttäuscht, wenn man keine schlussfolgerungen sieht. dann ist man enttäuscht, wenn beim artikel-7-verfahren nichts passiert, wenn die erwartungen, die wir alle hatten, leider gottes nicht umgesetzt worden sind. und deswegen bitte ich den präsidenten michel, auch bei den anstehenden sitzungen bei diesem thema dahinter zu bleiben. wir unterstützen einen politischen dialog. wir wollen, dass politisch gesprochen wird. aber es muss auch etwas daraus entstehen. es muss auch zu ergebnissen kommen.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr. president, i want to start intervening with this situation regarding the new wave of covid19. the impact of this new wave in europe is obviously worrying and, moreover, it also shows the differences in the level of vaccination of the citizens. that is why it is more important than ever to send a message from here that is not exclusively political, but based on scientific knowledge. and that is that we will only end this pandemic when we have vaccinated the entire population: the population of europe and the population outside the european union as well. the data is clear: those who are occupying most of the intensive care units in hospitals today are citizens who have not yet been vaccinated. so today we can say that the vaccine has saved millions of lives - millions of lives - and so we must continue to make efforts, i repeat, to ensure the highest levels of vaccination within the european union, also by making progress on the third dose, but that cannot be incompatible with ensuring that citizens outside the european union also have access to this vaccine. it is essential that we talk about instruments such as covax, but also that we ensure other types of instruments that enable all citizens from outside the european union to have this access. the strength of the facts on our borders also forces us to act quickly. if the european union is able to assert its full international weight, the flow of migrants to belarus can be stopped. sanctions against the lukashenka regime and the ban on airlines and travel agencies that collaborate with human trafficking are important instruments, as must be the redoubling of pressure on russia and the commitment of the countries of origin and transit to put an end to the exploitation of human life; to put an end to organized mafias. our response to the dictator lukashenka cannot be incompatible with the obligation of the polish government, too, to alleviate the suffering of the people trapped at the gates of the european union and to respect their right to asylum. they call on the polish authorities to allow the media and humanitarian organisations, as well as un and eu agencies, to enter the country to ensure the necessary humanitarian assistance. let's not get caught up in the far-right agenda that equates immigration with invasion, war or ethnic population replacement. decide which europe you want to build: the europe that has torn down walls or the europe that wants to build new barriers. you have to choose. our group is of course with the europe that has broken down walls. we must choose between a europe which promoted free movement and a europe of extremist governments which are destroying their democracies. in the end, we have to choose between building a europe of indifference to the suffering of migrants or a europe of solidarity with those who need us. our group is of course with this europe of solidarity. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. understand at once that only a common policy on immigration, asylum and borders, in accordance with international law and respect for human rights, will prevent us from being held hostage by autocratic regimes. prime minister morawiecki appeals to the solidarity of the european union while at the same time flouting its founding principles. mrs von der leyen, remain committed to the rule of law and also to not approving the recovery plan and activating the conditionality mechanism if governments like those in hungary and poland continue on this extremist course and do not return to the path of the separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary. let us use the crisis in belarus to deal more effectively with new threats. we must be aware that we are not only part of a union of interests, but also of values. and there is no greater threat to our security than that which pushes us to adopt the ideas and principles of the adversary. the strategic compass to succeed will need a good moral compass, because human dignity does not belong to any culture nor is it a geopolitical weapon. it belongs to all of us and it is our duty to defend it.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, yet again, the covid cases are spiralling up in some european regions more than ever before during the pandemic. europe is even becoming a hotspot in the global statistics. and yes, there are differences between member states. but we should never stop to look for european solutions, to learn from one another, and we should make sure that the virus that has caused so much damage never gets in the way of our united europe. the member states need to make a greater effort to get people vaccinated also, with booster shots, to prevent the overburdening of the health system and to protect the people who cannot be vaccinated yet, like most children. this crisis is not over yet, and it will not help to pretend otherwise. we should not forget that many regions of the world don’t even have access to enough vaccines, and this needs to change, or we will never see the end of the pandemic. in preparation for the summit, we had discussed the issue of the rule of law, and i was indeed very happy that several presidents and prime ministers were very vocal on rule of law in the media. however, it seems that the council did not reach any progress. and it’s not only – also, but not only – the task of the commission to act, but also of the member states. the article 7 procedure is in the hands of the council and yet, nothing is moving. we need more action and we need it fast. this only becomes a crisis if we don’t act. speaking of another crisis, the climate summit in glasgow has brought about progress, but it’s the bitter reality that this progress is absolutely insufficient in the wake of a catastrophic climate crisis. and there is no time for self—congratulatory statements. the urgency is real. europe needs to step up its game, and it’s not helped by branding fossil investments as sustainable. investments in gas now will mean prolonging the fossil era for decades, instead of finally getting real with climate protection. and nuclear is neither safe nor clean, and certainly not renewable. we desperately need a sustainable energy transition, and we cannot waste our time on gas and nuclear. and finally, on belarus: as long as we see human beings as the biggest threat, we give belarus and also other regimes all leverage. we have to help those people in need. they are stuck, and they are not weapons; they are people in need.
mr president, welcome back, mr president michel, for the european commission i no longer see president von der leyen, ladies and gentlemen, two general reflections on the conclusions of this council and i think they are worrying reflections. the first is that i think there's a constant in these conclusions: the council has a chronic inability to find a minimum common denominator for taking decisions or solving the problems we face today. the second general reflection is that too often the weaknesses of the european union are reflected in the fact that we are easily blackmailed by the dictator in power, whether in turkey, belarus, libya or russia. unfortunately, this has become a constant. the union should give strength, but our weaknesses allow us to be constantly blackmailed on various issues. i now turn to the specific issues that were discussed. my colleagues have already spoken at length about the pandemic and vaccines, but unfortunately the council conclusions only make a general reference to misinformation and do not mention the fact that one of the key measures that the commission had put in place, and which we voted in a large majority here, is likely to be dissolved after a few months, that of the green certificate. we are waiting for the new commission proposal, but it seems to me that we are moving in a direction where everyone is doing what he wants and it is still difficult to find a common plan between the european countries. we are very concerned, and we have seen this unfortunately in brussels in recent days, about the violent waves of protest that are coming in over this situation. violence and violent protests are to be condemned without question, but i wonder whether the european institutions cannot do more to prevent discontent from turning into these deplorable acts from an information point of view. i have said this several times on energy and raw materials. we don't need the dream book, we need concrete solutions. to think that what we're doing here in terms of energy transition is not impacting these dynamics is to not understand the scale of this problem. the energy transition is an important point, but we must do it pragmatically and in the light of the present situation. this is not the way to go, and we risk creating problems both in the short term and in the short term, and failing to achieve the objectives of the transition. the last point concerns immigration. full solidarity with poland and the baltic states. what's happening is unacceptable. we see an important loophole here. if the president of the people's party and you yourself, in comparison with the past, consider that some measures are necessary to protect our external borders, that is certainly a positive development. the frontex data are worrying, they were published today, not only for belarus but also for the mediterranean. we would like to see more involvement and more protection of our external borders by the european institutions.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the high commission! there are three major crises today, three major issues that need to be addressed in the european union. it's obviously covid, it's obviously hybrid warfare on the eastern border of the european union. finally, what president michel said (for which i would like to thank him, and this has not been mentioned in other speeches): the energy crisis, the threat of poverty for individual countries of the european union, but also, and above all, for europeans. so in the face of such serious crises, talking about the rule of law or reducing the hybrid war on the eastern border of the european union to a humanitarian crisis is either an expression of misunderstanding or simply political obsession, which some groups here have been presenting for a long time. poland and the baltic states are today defending the security and sovereignty of the european union. we must thank all those who support us, but above all we must thank those soldiers, those officers who fight every day for the security of europe and the europeans. lukashenko, backed by putin, has declared a hybrid war on the european union. you must be aware of this and this house must finally understand it fully.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the mr president, it's good to have you back. i am not going to go into detail. about a month ago, the commission president ruled out eu money being invested in barbed wire and fences. and then, mr michel, you go to warsaw and announce, together with the polish prime minister, that on the basis of a legal opinion drawn up by the european council in your house, you can imagine erecting barbed wire and fences in the name of the european union, to prevent people from seeking protection in the eu. they are adopting the language of the political right, which speaks of illegal migration when it comes to people in need, of an alleged threat to the stability of the european union, which is to be triggered by 5,000 refugees, and they want to use the so-called eu border protection agency frontex, which is itself involved in serious human rights violations such as illegal pushbacks, to defend against this imagined threat. but it is not these 5000 people who are now fighting for their survival and against the freezing in the polish and belarusian forests that are threatening the eu. mr michel, it is politicians who voluntarily let themselves be pulled along by the cart of the authoritarian right who are doing serious damage to democracy, to international law and, yes - and you have to put up with this now - to the anti-fascist founding consensus of the predecessor organization of the european union. of course lukashenko is a vicious autocrat, and of course he uses refugees as leverage. but the fact that it can do so at all is due to the eu's continuing failure to implement a humane and supportive migration policy based on international law. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and the european union is a major player in the world economy. instead of dreaming of barbed wire and walls, mr michel, you should be working to get the member states to get the people out of there!
mr. president, i have to ask you... the european commission failed to respond to the initial coronavirus outbreak and also failed to procure vaccines. the commission is illegally withholding recovery funds from the hungarians and the poles, thereby deliberately harming both countries. brussels is funding virtually everything that increases the pressure on migration. the only thing he won't give you money for is to physically protect the border. we're not just protecting ourselves, we're protecting europe. the commission abuses its power to initiate legal proceedings against hungary and poland. in the midst of this epidemic and a migrant crisis, and even a hybrid war, the poles and hungarians are being attacked from behind. this is a slap in the face of solidarity. that's a letdown. brussels also wants to make millions of families pay for the costs of fighting climate change in the form of climate taxes, instead of making big corporations pay for the climate destruction. this is unacceptable.
vice—president of the commission. – mr president, i will not need five minutes to conclude. on behalf of the commission let me telegraphically say this. on the pandemic, europe is fighting. our systems of public health and public education are under strain, but are resisting the unprecedented pressure. our model of society is being tested, but holds. our ambitious vaccination programme is under full development. we have approved therapeutics and we have assured over five billion doses, for the next two years, of vaccines that are reliable and tested by science and approved by independent regulators. we now need simply to convince our unvaccinated citizens, and like this we can go together through this last stretch ahead. together, we will make it. on climate, europe is leading by example. there is no doubt, and glasgow was yet another proof of our ambition. we can now hope that our partners and our competitors follow. we have on the table of the legislators an unprecedented legal arsenal to match our ambition with concrete legislative tools. on energy prices we now have a toolbox. we have a commonality of purpose. we have convergent views. here too there is no shred of doubt that by working together we can win much more than by working individually. finally, on belarus, we will have a dedicated debate in a few minutes, but let me say in conclusion two very simple things. first, those who have attacked us, instrumentalising human suffering, have failed. they have failed in evros, they have failed in ceuta and they are failing on our eastern external border. message two: when europe acts as team europe we are unstoppable!
president of the european council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to refer back to what mr manfred weber said a few moments ago, when he said that we really have to make a choice. do we want to suffer, do we want a europe of crises or do we want a europe of solutions? i share this belief that when we are united, together, we are strong and we have an impact. this is the case, for example, when we are mobilised internationally, with a robust project, considering that climate is an issue that must involve us fully; then we influence the rest of the world. this is the case in the digital field, for example, when we want to ensure that our core values, such as respect for privacy, are shared standards across our borders. and this is also the case when hybrid attacks are no longer theoretical, virtual threats, but are very real. we were tested and we responded. we are lucid, everything is not solved. of course, there are dictatorships on europe's external borders who do not like our democratic model, who do not like freedoms, who do not like the rule of law. but our ability to protect the external borders also depends on our ability to defend the model we want for our citizens. and yes, i am rather proud, ladies and gentlemen, that the european commission, encouraged by the european council, has decided - it was announced a few moments ago - to increase the resources to support the countries directly on the external border and which protect the whole of the european union. when, for example, a country of 4 million people like lithuania has 700 km of border with belarus, which cynically uses human beings to put pressure on our democratic model, we must show european solidarity, including by funding - that has been said - infrastructure to strengthen the capacity to protect the external borders of the european union. i fully agree with what the commissioner said on this: when we are united, when we act quickly, we have an impact and we can stand up for the values we believe in, such as the rule of law, which allows me to make the connection. first of all, i would like to stress that this is not the first time, in recent months, that we have addressed this important subject at the level of the european council. and on the one hand, i am convinced that we must use the institutional tools, the legal tools, and we have decided together with the european parliament, with the european council and the council of the eu, one year ago, to strengthen our tools in order to have an impact. the conditionality mechanism is a demonstration that we want to act. on the other hand, i think that political dialogue is also needed because there is a political challenge and you can count on me, on the members of the council, to try to make some progress and to be able to deliver, to have solutions - this, i think, is what is very important. the third point very quickly, covid-19. we are all, all lucid. we know that it's not over. we know that it is important to coordinate, it is important to cooperate and i would like to remind you all that in fact there are very limited competences at the level of the eu. but you have decided all together to work together, to coordinate, to cooperate in order to defeat this virus. several operational remarks were made, notably by mr séjourné, on the importance of ensuring that we can continue to act together on the third dose, on the question of free movement. and it is no surprise that at the european council in december this issue will be back on the agenda. finally, and this is something that some colleagues have mentioned, i remain convinced that the energy issue is a hugely important issue for our ability to support both european families and citizens and our businesses, small, medium and large. we must have the capacity to act in the short term. this is the meaning of the 'toolbox' which was presented by the commission and which mainly comprises national measures, which many european countries have already undertaken. we also see that in the medium and long term we must have the ambition to cooperate, to coordinate more to anticipate the challenges related to this energy issue and to ensure that we have more positive impact on a subject that will be extremely important and that has different aspects, whether geopolitical, whether economic or whether they directly affect our ability to succeed in this climate transition that many of us consider as a high priority for the future.
i thank president michel for being with us today. i also thank president von der leyen and vice-president schinas and, of course, all those who have spoken and enriched our debate. the debate is closed. i now leave the presidency to vice-president silva pereira for the results of the votes.
the next item is the council and commission statements on the situation in belarus and its border with the european union: security and humanitarian implications. i would remind you that, as has been the norm in this part-session, there will be no 'catch the eye' procedure or 'blue card' questions and there are also plans for interventions from our liaison offices in the member states. the speeches in the chamber will of course continue to be made from the central platform. i would like to begin by giving the floor, on behalf of the council, to mr anže logar, minister for foreign affairs. you have the floor.
president—in—office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, in the wake of the fraudulent presidential election in belarus last year, and the intimidation and violent repression of peaceful protesters, opposition members and journalists, the eu has progressively imposed restrictive measures against belarus. further aggravating the situation in may, ryanair flight 4978 between athens and vilnius was forced to land in minsk under a false pretence, and a political opponent of the regime in belarus was seized from the plane. the incident triggered further international and eu sanctions. president lukashenko has since sought to undermine the eu’s resolve by manufacturing and then instrumentalising migration flows for cynical political purposes. a high number of people, many of them vulnerable, were lured from the third countries to minsk, and shuttled to the union’s external borders with a promise of entry into the european union. on 8 november, the situation further escalated when several thousand migrants gathered on the belarussian side at the polish border. reportedly, belarussian officers were leading migrants towards the border with vehicles equipped with barbed wire, caltrops, and other equipment designed to prevent migrants from retreating into belarus. polish forces rejected all the entry attempts. nonetheless, the situation was tense, and could have easily gotten out of hand due to miscalculation or accident. ultimately, it was a miscalculation of president lukashenko’s part. the situation has however brought a lot of suffering. several migrants have died, and many face dire conditions for weeks or months. we have also seen the security personnel of member state taken to hospital following violent clashes. this is the responsibility of mr lukashenko and his regime. however, we can welcome that, in this situation, the eu was able to show a united front. as you know, eu leaders were very clear in october at the european council that eu would counter the hybrid attack by the belarussian regime, including by adopting further restrictive measures as a matter of urgency. consequently, on 15 november, the foreign affairs council adopted the legal acts that broadened the listing criteria for designation under the sanction regime against belarus. the objective is to target individuals and entities organising or contributing to activities by lukashenko’s regime that facilitate the illegal crossing of the eu’s external borders. furthermore, the fifth package of sanctions will be finalised in the coming days. work on a further package will also continue. the eu has shown that it can protect its interests on the international stage, using a combination of tools. it has been notably effective in its outreach to third countries and airlines, which has resulted in greatly slowing down the flow of migrants towards minsk. while it’s too early to tell, the situation appears to have been easing in recent days. nevertheless, i think, the most affected member states, namely lithuania, latvia and poland, deserve our continuous solidarity and concrete support. we should not forget that they are protecting the eu’s external borders. migrants are reportedly being moved away from the borders into more permanent housing. already, over 400 iraqis were returned home from belarus with the support of baghdad. we are carefully following developments. the eu institutions and the member states will continue intensive diplomatic outreach to countries of origin and potential countries of origin, and the effects are already visible. before concluding, let me reiterate that the responsibility of belarus for this crisis is unequivocal. it is now crucial that the humanitarian situation at the border is addressed. belarus has to allow access to the un refugee agency (unhcr) and the international organization for migration (iom) to provide humanitarian assistance, and return opportunities for the people affected.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for organising this very topical debate. the circumstances have dictated the urgency of a european collective response. over 40 000 repeated attempts to cross the eastern borders into the european union were prevented this year alone, and there are now over 2 000 people close to the border with an estimated further 15 000 stranded in belarus. the shocking images of these thousands of desperate people do not do justice to our values. these people are being sold a lie, a fantasy, an illusion of a quick flight through istanbul or dubai, through minsk, to germany or central europe. it is not as simple as it sounds. they do not buy a ticket to europe. they buy a ticket to an ice—cold forest like so many pawns in a sick game. belarus’s actions represent a real and present threat to border control and security. we have to call a spade a spade and see these actions for what they are: a determined attempt to create a continuing and protracted crisis as part of a broader, coordinated effort to destabilise the european union, testing our unity and resolve. this is not a migration crisis. this is not a migration issue. this is a major security threat. poland’s borders are being tested, as are lithuania’s borders and latvia’s, but these are european borders and the threat to one is a threat to all. we shall not accept it. we shall not tolerate it. our response was unrelenting, but i don’t think that now is the time for more diagnostics. now it’s time for action. let me take you quickly through the main strands of our european collective response. first and foremost, we are now working to address the dramatic humanitarian crisis unfolding in the forest. we have already mobilised eur 700 000 of humanitarian funding from the eu budget to support partners in providing immediate assistance to vulnerable people. we have already allocated eur 200 000 to the red cross as part of our overall contribution to the disaster relief emergency fund, and we are very pleased to see the international organization for migration (iom) and the unhcr finally being granted access to a makeshift camp on the belarusian side of the border, near the international crossing point bruzgi, to deliver emergency aid and assistance to vulnerable people. but i cannot stress enough how important it is to ensure sustained access for humanitarian actors on both sides of the border. i would also like to remind you that belarus bears the primary responsibility for addressing this crisis. belarus is bound by the geneva convention, including the principle of non—refoulement, and therefore belarus must provide for adequate protection of the refugees it invited into its territories and cooperate fully with unhcr. secondly, we are providing immediate and full support to the most affected member states. we are providing material support through our civil protection mechanism. we are deploying eu agencies – more than 100 frontex officers operating in lithuania, 73 easo experts, two europol guest officers and one analyst – all deployed on the lithuanian side of the border. we are mobilising important additional funds. the president has just announced the tripling of our support – elevating it to eur 238 million – for latvia, lithuania and poland. in addition, we are now working, beyond money and support, on a proposal for provisional measures to be taken in the area of asylum and return, based on article 78(3) of the treaty, in response to the call we received from the october european council. for the longer term, our forthcoming proposals to reform the schengen borders code will strengthen our legal framework and give better tools to member states to protect their external borders in situations of extreme instrumentalisation. thirdly, we are responding to belarus’s flouting of international norms with a harsh set of sanctions that we continue to escalate. the now fifth set of sanctions were adopted on 15 november and they allow us to target individuals and entities organising or contributing to activities that facilitate illegal crossings, and we are ready to go further, if and when needed, including through the international civil aviation organization. beyond the money, beyond the humanitarian effort, beyond the help to our member states and the ceiling of actions, diplomatic efforts and external action on the ground are now paying dividends. i am very proud of everything we have managed to achieve in these last days as team europe. joint demarches have been made by the eu delegations in all countries of origin and transit. i have personally travelled, in less than seven days, to iraq, lebanon, the united arab emirates and turkey, and tomorrow i will fly to uzbekistan. i think that, as a result of these on—site visits, the transit routes that are being used by smugglers to bring migrants to the belarusian border are being shut down one by one. flights from baghdad and routed through dubai, beirut, istanbul, damascus and tashkent have all been halted. europe has been counting its friends in these difficult moments and i’m very pleased to have found many. we are making clear that there are no loopholes to exploit in the partnerships we maintain worldwide. finally, returns are now becoming a major priority. to alleviate the situation at the border, we are working to step up returns. in baghdad, last monday and last thursday, a flight with 432 iraqis on board left minsk for baghdad, and 600 people were returned during the summer. the iraqi authorities have now officially requested help with such voluntary returns and we are fully committed to providing this. we will mobilise additional funds of around eur 1 million to support voluntary return and reintegration, in cooperation with the iom. altogether, we will provide up to eur 3.5 million for this purpose. we need to ensure that the funding programming we are in the process of finalising, not just for iraq but other countries of origin, will leave sufficient financial space for such an operation. it is also important that we continue work to debunk and publicly expose the organised disinformation and the manipulation of information by belarusian and russian state—controlled media to inform would—be migrants of the realities that they would face. today, having mobilised all of these tools, the college decided to add one further tool to our toolbox. when president von der leyen, from the white house, announced the possibility of sanctions to third-country operators engaged in human smuggling, this was not an empty threat. it was a credible threat. today, the commission has proposed a new legal framework which will enable us to adopt targeted measures against transport operators of any mode of transport – land, air, sea, inland waterways – that, knowingly or unknowingly, engage or facilitate smuggling or trafficking people into the european union. these measures could include the limitation of operations in the union market, the suspension of licences or authorisations, the prohibition to transit or even overfly the european union, and to make technical stops or calls into eu ports. this will be a new, powerful tool, and i think that those who consider engaging in such activities will take this message very clearly. let me conclude with the two main lessons learned from this extraordinary crisis we have been facing in the last ten days. the first lesson learned is that, as i said a few minutes ago, when we act together as team europe, we are unstoppable. nobody can stop the combined power of immediate reaction when we act, as institutions and member states, together with our international friends and partners. lesson number two: we are much more effective in these circumstances when we deploy tools and instruments grounded in eu law. diplomatic demarches, protocols and papers flying around do not serve the purpose of defending the european union in extraordinary times. if we need, want and aspire to be a geopolitical commission, we need to work together with the full force of eu law and eu instruments. this is when we matter in this troubled, unsafe and obscure world.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i thank vice-president schinas for his work in recent weeks, which has meant an end to the mafia flights to belarus. with each passing day, lukashenka shows more and more his true face, the face of a tyrant, the face of a dictator taking orders from another dictator: lukashenka is today just another brand of the multinational crime that putin has turned russia into. to get along with belarus, we must call russia, because nothing is accidental: neither the cyber attacks, nor the spread of fake news, nor the support for independence movements in catalonia. while we europeans are entertaining our debates, putin's russia continues its policy of consummate invasions, as it has done with northern georgia and crimea. russia's latest act of aggression is happening right now on ukraine's eastern borders; it is no coincidence that, at the height of the conflict with belarus, putin has seized the opportunity to deploy nearly 100,000 troops to the border with ukraine: belarus is the excuse; ukraine is the target. and some still wonder if we're in a hybrid war... we respond with temperance, not recklessness. our principles and values are an existential threat to russian autocratic power. putin doesn't care about our soldiers, he cares about our freedoms, and he's right to fear our freedom because we've historically proven it's invincible.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism. but at the same time, the humanitarian catastrophe continues, particularly at the polish-belarusian border, where people are being mercilessly exploited for political purposes and forcibly removed. there are no law-free spaces at external borders. international obligations, eu law and humanitarian responsibilities also apply there. but none of this is being taken into account by the polish government, and therefore the commission has to initiate infringement proceedings. aid agencies must be given rapid access to the border region to save people from starvation and freezing. there would be support for poland to meet the current challenges, through our agencies, through relocation. and it is high time that this support is called for and accepted, high time that this destructive and violent path is ended.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, 15 months after the rigged elections. it seems that it should have been clear to everyone that the dictator lukashenko, who has illegally seized power, is illegally in power and can only be stopped by a united, strong and timely action by the european union. this was expected and is expected by the belarusian civil society. today we can summarize something. the european union is once again divided. the price of merkel's call to lukashenko was the latter's accusation that germany had failed to honour a supposed promise to take in the 2,000 migrants his government had brought to belarus. in the 10 months of this year, compared to the corresponding period in 2020, belarusian exports to germany increased by 105 per cent (double), to italy by 70 per cent, to poland by 74 per cent, and to lithuania by 41 per cent. and this is already happening after four sanctions packages have been adopted. now there are still those who have doubts about the sanctions on the belarusian state airline involved in the transport of migrants. why would you do that? the migration crisis created by the belarusian regime is a direct way to threaten and influence the internal and foreign policy of the european union. it is a real and growing multipolarity, including the astravyansk nuclear power plant, a threat to all of us with the russian shadow. let's not betray the belarusian people's faith in a different future for their country. let us not be afraid to make our own efforts to defend european values, for this is the only proof of the strength and credibility of europe.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating once again the crisis on the belarusian border. let us be clear: chartering flights to bring migrants home is perhaps the most responsible and humanitarian policy. indeed, to expel is to protect. protect the migrants, first of all, who are exploited by the belarusian authorities and pushed towards the border. of course, no one forced them to board from baghdad or africa to minsk. lukashenko is helping them, but they are the ones who want to cross the border illegally and come to europe in the hope of finding el dorado. they're obviously not here against their will. we saw them attack the border with shovels, axes, and throw stones at the poles. at the same time, they are engaged in staged actions to move public opinion and influence policy. and with you, it always works. so think about this phrase by auguste comte, who said that the mind must always be the minister of the heart, never its slave. but you encourage migrants to come by promising them unconditional welcome, by giving more and more money - 700 000 euros just last week. if there is a humanitarian, migration and security crisis, you are largely responsible for it. the most humanitarian policy is that of australia: zero regularization, zero migration and zero deaths at sea. the firmness of the polish government, border guards and military paid off. several hundred migrants have already left and many more will follow. they're back home with their families, far from the cold of belarus. that is also true humanity. the safety of our people is paramount. it comes first. poland, lithuania and latvia know this. all europeans have them to thank.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the prime minister of my country, mateusz morawiecki, was supposed to come here. unfortunately, he was not allowed to do so, but he asked me to convey the content he wanted to express. i am particularly pleased to do so because they reflect the views of my group, of many millions of my countrymen and of the people of europe. at the moment, several thousand polish officers and soldiers are patrolling the eastern border of the european union. for the first time since the iron curtain, the integrity of poland's borders, the baltic countries, is at risk. this is the long shadow of russia's neo-imperial policy. for several weeks now, lukashenko has been sending hundreds of civilians to the border every day. and this is not a repeat of the 2015 migration crisis. this is a planned provocation, in which migrants are just tools of lukashenko, and the aim is to destabilize europe. lukashenko's intentions are not to be proved, he provides such proof himself. we will massacre all the scum that you, the west, have financed. these words were not spoken in a secret meeting, but by lukashenko on bbc television. vladimir putin's russia has been consistently trying to rebuild its imperial position and subjugate parts of europe for years. its strength is our passivity. when she attacked georgia, we were unable to resist her. when she took crimea from ukraine, we were unable to stop her. when lukashenko rigged the presidential election, we lacked the determination to defend the belarusian people from the dictatorship. when vladimir putin himself started playing games with the interests of individual european countries, we lacked the solidarity to put a dam on the nord stream 2 pipeline. i am writing 'we', although poland has strongly objected to each of these cases from the beginning. i write 'we' because in the long run we are all victims of this policy, all of europe. on the eastern borders of the european union, on the polish-belarusian border, a regular battle for the future of europe is being fought. it's time we all realized that. this is a conflict that is taking place in the information field, because almost every day, russian troll farms are bombarding the internet with fake news. the conflict is taking place in cyberspace, and there isn't a week that goes by without reports of cyberattacks originating in the east. this conflict is taking place in the economic field, where russia is constantly blackmailing other countries with gas. but it doesn't mean that russia has given up direct violence, as the polish, lithuanian and latvian soldiers can attest. we need clear rules that allow europe to take the lead and block further actions by putin and lukashenka. first of all, no concessions. things have gone too far. russia and belarus have crossed all borders and no more can be allowed. second, nothing about us without us. any attempt to resolve a conflict must be based on agreement. any attempt to negotiate without some countries is a success for vladimir putin. third, solidarity in the face of common threats. this case does not concern poland, lithuania, latvia, estonia. this is bigger than that. fourthly, words are no longer enough, we must act decisively, including through sanctions. fifth, transatlantic cooperation. this conflict has the dimension of a clash of civilizations and requires an appropriate response not only within the european union but also extended cooperation with nato. sixthly, a common energy policy. the union is being blackmailed by russia because we are still playing against each other in energy policy, not for each other. until that changes, we can be sure that putin will play these deals to his advantage. seventh and lastly, europe is more than the european union. the countries that remain outside the union, such as ukraine and moldova, must be given a signal that they will not be left alone to be the prey of moscow's neo-imperial policy. we must return with greater energy to the idea of enlarging the union with new members. so these are the seven steps that we have to get to. otherwise, europe will stand still and the ground will begin to collapse under us. the security of europe is our common concern. that's the whole point of alliances, to stand in line when you try. and these alliances should be backed up not just by words, but by concrete political decisions and actions.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the truth is that i am not going to focus on denouncing the humanitarian situation on the border of belarus with poland, where women, men, children and girls are being treated as if they were real waste. i shall confine myself to expressing my deepest rejection of the role of the commission and the council, of their terrible statements about the so-called hybrid war and of the support they are giving to the polish far right in their repression of migrants, including support for the separation of families at the border, the same thing that trump did and that this parliament has already condemned. they are authorizing and legitimizing the most reactionary, racist and dehumanizing version of migration that can be had. that is precisely what we mean when we accuse the grand coalition governing the european union of buying into the far-right narrative. enough with the immigration necropolitics. we don't need an army on the border, we need humanitarian aid. they provide legal and safe ways to enter europe.
mr. president, i have to ask you... officer, please. i have every respect and solidarity for the poles who are determined to defend their own borders, which are also the external borders of the union. if a member state protects its external borders, it would be a matter of solidarity and financial support, not a backlash. in a letter last week, five european parliament factions virtually attacked poland, which is struggling with a migrant crisis, by demanding a withdrawal of funds. we see that mass illegal migration has become a form of hybrid warfare. it is therefore important to strengthen the protection of the union's external borders, including by funding physical barriers, in order to enable the union to protect its security and avoid being placed in a vulnerable position. i'm glad that today there's a meeting between the v4 and the four heads of government in visegrad. a new approach is needed to deal with the changed realities. the current legal frameworks do not help member states to cope with migratory pressures. the european parliament and the commission must finally make it clear that border protection is important and that illegal entry into the union is not possible.
mr president, what’s happening at our eastern borders is not just a migration crisis, it is hybrid warfare from a wicked dictator in minsk, and it demands a determined european response. and we’ve seen that determination in the past weeks, with vice-president schinas building partnerships with third countries to make sure their airports are no longer exploited by smugglers colluding with the belarusian regime. and these partnerships are crucial to stop the weaponization of human suffering by lukashenko. and we’d like to congratulate you, vice-president, on the impressive results so far, because thanks to these efforts, ultimately less migrants will end up in the cold, the mud and the despair of the belarusian border. less people will fall victim to the abuse of lukashenko, and less people will die. this is an important result, but we can’t stop there. we need to keep showing lukashenko that his attempts to divide and to destabilise europe will fail, that we will not be blackmailed into recognising his illegal regime, and that in contrast, the only thing he can expect from europe is new and tough sanctions until he stops repressing his own people.
mr. chairman, please! tonight, hundreds of migrants on the polish side of the eu border saw snow and sub-zero temperatures for the first time. hence the urgent appeal for such an important and urgent humanitarian matter. the hope of a solution came with the involvement of the community in solving this problem. the belarusian ruler and his patron are counting on the strength of the european union. each of the lines is much weaker in this game than they think, and i think they're starting to understand that. despite the great contribution, the sacrifice, the sacrifice of the soldiers, the border police, the effects can only be seen if we use force, if there is a diplomatic game and if there is a real threat of sanctions. i appreciate and want to thank president von der leyen, president michel, the high representative, as well as chancellor merkel and president macron for their involvement. the solution is to continue to block the flow of new people, to help migrants return to their countries of origin, to care for refugees, to provide humanitarian aid and to strengthen the unity of the european union. what is needed is a demonstration of the unity of the european union. this game is not over.
madam president! the dictators of lukashenko and his ally putin have invaded europe, they wanted to divide us, they wanted to divide us. that is why it is so important that we respond quickly, decisively and in unison, and that we show solidarity, also in this house. we must speak with one strong voice and resolutely reject this provocation. but this situation at the border can't overshadow what's happening in belarus. almost a thousand people - political prisoners - are being tortured in lukashenka's prisons. they must be free, as all belarusian people. and also the poles: andrzej poczobut, angelica borys or my young friend siarhei korszun. they need to be free, and we need to help them do that. we can't turn our backs on them. the one who hijacks planes is a terrorist. anyone who kills his own citizens or citizens of other countries is a criminal. the terrorist and criminal belongs in front of the criminal court in the hague and we must take him there in solidarity.
madam president, belarus has orchestrated the arrival of refugee candidates at the borders of the european union. it is true that this is unacceptable and it justifies stronger sanctions against all those who cooperate with this regime. but these men and women, these children trapped today at the border, do not have to pay the price of this shameful blackmail. yes, the belarusian authorities are responsible, but the polish authorities are also responsible for the ill-treatment of these men, women and children. without a common asylum and migration policy, this dark picture will be repeated in europe. yesterday, turkey, morocco and libya. today, it is belarus. tomorrow, what regime will again impose this reality on europe? so yes, today we are calling for an end to refoulement, access to asylum procedures, immediate relocation, access for journalists to no-go zones, but also for the suspension of the polish law on refoulement. but in the longer term we are asking the council to take up this issue of migration. parliament is ready. the commission has made a proposal. so what are you waiting for to be free from the dictatorship of these authoritarian regimes?
madam president, lukashenko thinks nothing of human lives, as he has recently demonstrated by his actions, where thousands of people were manipulated into leaving their homes and travelling to belarus with hopes of finding a shortcut to europe. such manipulation of human lives sounds and seems like an act of international crime, and, as such, the actions of lukashenko must be judged by international judicial bodies and the united nations. after all, using migrants at the cost of their lives in order to achieve lukashenko’s cynical political interests is not only an aggression against the european union but against the world as a whole, considering that migration is a global issue and problem. on the issue of new sanctions, these are inevitable and must, among others, be aimed at the belarusian national airline belavia, that directly participated and participates in human trafficking. this means taking back airplanes of eu origin from belavia, and a total ban on the sale of aircraft parts to belarus. only by combining different measures will it be possible to prevent the next madness and crimes of the belarusian dictator.
madam president! i have one minute and i want to use it to thank those who are helping at the polish-belarusian border: the border group, nomada, the legal intervention association, homo faber, the polish migration forum, the helsinki foundation for human rights, salam lab, the open house, the halina niec legal aid center, bread and salt, refugee.info, the conflict kitchen, the volnosłowa zone, the lighthouse for refugee children, the salvation foundation, riny without borders, the mothers at the border, the white humanitarian action, the kozy czuwanie, the rescue team of the international aid center, the pah, the medical center at the border, the zuławska group at the zuławska, the anatoly jaroszewski group at the grynoszewska, the greek and polish psychotherapists, the border and refugees center, the catholic church, the catholic church, the catholic church of ireland, the catholic church of ireland, the catholic church of ireland, the catholic church of ireland, the catholic church of ireland, the catholic church of scotland, the catholic church of ireland, the united church of scotland, the catholic church of scotland, the united methodist church, the anglicans, the catholic church of scotland, the united methodist church, and many others. they do it because the european commission is ineffective. thank you!
madam marshal, the high chamber! prime minister morawiecki, if you hadn't broken the rules of this house before, you might be here with us today. and i wanted to ask him some questions. and as we can see, just a few days after the european union intervened, more and more planes are taking migrants back to iraq and other places. the question therefore arises: why could it not do what the opposition in poland demanded and ask the european union for help already in september or october? this crisis could have ended almost as soon as it started, and we could have saved a lot of suffering for the migrants and a lot of effort for our officials. secondly, why can't we have a reception centre at the border where asylum applications can be processed professionally and quickly? and thirdly, prime minister morawiecki in this hall promised to fulfill the conditions necessary to launch the national reconstruction plan - the liquidation of the disciplinary chamber and two other conditions. why hasn't he done it yet?
madam president! i live in podlasie, a border region between poland and belarus, and i see the tragedies of migrants every day. we are united today by the sense of injustice that dictator lukashenka has ordered these people to suffer. thousands of refugees cynically exploited by the belarusian regime, victims of its attack on poland and the european union, are suffering from hunger and cold. they dreamed of a better life, and they met a terrible fate. this is an attempt by the haraczu regime to blackmail and extort money from europe. it's also an unprecedented example of state terrorism. we cannot remain indifferent, which is why further painful sanctions are necessary. i just wanted to say from this point of view that i appreciate the commitment of the polish army, the border guard, the firefighters and the civilians who help protect our border. let us also not forget that behind the bars of belarusian prisons and camps, hundreds of belarusian patriots are being persecuted, who refused to recognize the rigged elections and loudly protested against it. we stand in solidarity with the victims of the lukashenka regime who are trapped at the border, as well as with the imprisoned and repressed belarusian oppositionists. only a collective pressure on lukashenko will bring an end to the violence and the harm to these innocent people. - howdy, whitey!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the present situation on the border with belarus is first and foremost a human tragedy. lukashenka is using migrants and causing them suffering solely for his political survival. this is both a human tragedy and a hybrid attack to blackmail our union. let's not be fooled. this crisis is not the work of one dictator. once again, putin is trying to destabilize us. it's just another example of the cynicism and cruelty of the autocrats we face in this neighborhood. this crisis requires a european response, swift and firm, to defend our borders and our values, as firm as that used by vice-president schinas when he dealt with the issue of the airlines used by lukashenka or the sanctions that the european union must impose in the face of the silence, often, of the council and also of the high representative. we must all unite to drive out once and for all these nineteenth-century dictators who have no meaning at our border or in this europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, i would like to draw attention to two aspects which i believe have been underestimated in the public debate and, frankly, in the debate here in the european parliament. the first is that the belarusian ruler, alexander lukashenko, combines criminal activity and illegitimate political pressure against europe in order to act against our borders: namely, on the one hand, the criminal activity of smuggling, of organized smuggling crime, and on the other hand, the pressure on europe which the turkish leadership has actually invented. the other aspect is one which deserves more attention in this house, namely that there is a freedom movement in belarus which we should support as much as possible, a movement which is colourful, which is diverse and which is intended to give the citizens of belarus their civil rights to democracy and the rule of law.
madam president, colleagues, europe is facing a crisis. this is not a migrant crisis as we witnessed before, it is a major challenge to european peace and security orchestrated by autocratic regimes. moreover, it is not an isolated act. we are facing disinformation, cyber attacks, blackmail through energy supplies and military build-ups at our borders. we must do our utmost to ensure that the current crisis does not escalate. we need to send a strong message to the autocrats in minsk and moscow, who are oppressing their own people at home, profiteering from the misfortune of others, and undermining peace and security in europe. we must reject appeasement, which will only serve those who are encouraging those seeking to divide and weaken us. we must adopt the fifth package of sanctions as soon as possible and show that such destabilising acts will have consequences. in this, i welcome ongoing coordination with our transatlantic allies. and, finally, we must continue to uphold security and defence spending commitments and thus ensure that we are able to deter those seeking to undermine peace and security in europe.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this discussion. the imperative need for a strong and holistic global response to fighting the hybrid threats instigated by the lukashenko regime has become very clear from our discussion today. i am extremely pleased to see that we have been achieving this, step by step, and that we have implemented measures to mitigate the potential impact of these threats on the security of the eu and of its citizens. we have implemented measures to support the member states most affected, to target those who organise and participate in activities that facilitate illegal crossing on the eu’s borders, and to drive a knife through the smuggling operations and routes. but we must also be very vigilant now about new routes opening up as these transit routes close down. we have also made important progress on humanitarian aid, but there needs to be a stronger focus on the humanitarian needs of people now stranded, including work to help their return home. i am very grateful to our partners for supporting us in dealing with this new form of aggression towards the european union, its values and its way of life. the consequences for belarus and for the facilitators of smuggling are becoming ever stronger. the eu is making clear that under no circumstances will it tolerate attempts to undermine or destabilise our societies. this is central to our mission of ensuring a secure and democratic europe through initiatives such as the security union. there is a humanitarian imperative to act decisively now to alleviate the situation at the borders of belarus, as well as a moral duty to prevent such unscrupulous actions being replicated. i am confident that, together, europe and the world will continue to stand up, tall and unwavering, to hybrid threats to our security, and continue to set up efforts addressing these challenges now and in the future.
the chairman of the council. the president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. i want to thank you for the debate today, and all of you who participated in this debate. i think it is important that this crisis is discussed at the level of all the european institutions. the use of migration as a weapon may not be entirely new, but the eu has never faced such a blatant case. and our best response is to remain united in rejecting belarus' attempts to instrumentalize migrants and migration. in addition to the tightening of sanctions, we must continue to exert political pressure on the lukashenko regime. the crucial point is that the attempt to drive a wedge between the members failed. the eu has proved more resilient, while respecting our shared values. i am confident that we will maintain this unity in the future. some of you have highlighted the difficult situation faced by migrants at the external border of the european union. member states have the right and the responsibility to secure their borders. it is also important to be aware that they are protecting the external border of the european union. but i would stress that they are also actively working with ngos and international organisations on the ground to provide urgent humanitarian aid to those in need. finally, i would stress that the most important thing is to address the causes of the situation. the european union is therefore actively working with third countries and airlines to combat the spread of false information that encourages people in these countries to take this dangerous journey and thereby put their lives at risk. the presidency stresses the need to step up efforts to address the external dimension of migration and to engage in political dialogue at the highest level with countries of origin and potential countries of choice. at the same time, the presidency reiterates the importance of seeking consensus in the negotiations for a directive on migration and asylum that will adequately address the contemporary challenges of migration. thank you so much for your attention.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. a hybrid attack by belarus, supported by the russian authorities, is taking place on the polish border. this planned provocation is really blackmailing and exploiting the vulnerable for political gain. the aim is, of course, to destabilize poland and the entire european union and to divide our society. i condemn the lukashenka regime for exporting innocent people into danger. i also call on russia to take action to increase transparency and to stop attacks in cyberspace. as a union, we need a basis to block further actions by lukashenka and putin. in this context, i welcome the recent proposal by the commission to blacklist all modes of transport based on international agreements on trafficking in human beings and smuggling of migrants. we must be immune to the hybrid attacks from the east that authoritarian regimes are waging against europe. we can't let them blackmail us.
in writing. the belarusian regime's responsibility for exploiting migration flows for cynical political purposes against the eu is clear. the eu must not fall into the trap of criminalising the victims of the humanitarian crisis consuming its external borders. the eu must respond firmly to the lukashenko regime with new and tougher sanctions in order to preserve the eu's security and stability, but without undermining european policies on migration and asylum. no wall has proved to be a solution to the management of flows and the causes from which they originate. the europe that the founding fathers dreamed of is not one of barriers and fences, but one in which solidarity and fair sharing of responsibilities make it possible to find common solutions for the member states most exposed to pressure and for the most vulnerable and needy people.
in writing. crisis, belarus, push backs are generalizations that do not convey the drama of a man who sometimes because of persecution, and sometimes simply in search of hope for a better life decided to set off into the unknown and today freezes in the forest on our border. a man who has often given away his life's work and been deceived by criminals and the lukashenko regime, and today is thrown out by the services into the forest. the man, not the thing! as with the rule of law, there is no room for compromise when it comes to human rights. there's no room for rationalizing and making excuses. it's high time we created a humanitarian corridor for those 2,000 people on the border. it's a matter of humanity. because if we turn a blind eye to the plight of people at the border or forget about the dissidents imprisoned by the regime, we will eventually destroy the foundations of our european community. the situation at the border clearly shows that the eu is moving in the right direction. thanks to the european commission's commitment, flights from the middle east have already been restricted and 700,000 euros have been allocated to help migrants. the union is an unfinished project, and we should therefore seek to strengthen its institutions. so that we can face the humanitarian challenges together.
in writing. the speech by ms zhichanovskaya in the plenary was the right signal at the right time: we stand with the courageous belarusian opposition and condemn the activities of the lukashenka regime. the humanitarian situation on the polish-belarusian border is a matter of great concern. the current crisis is a coordinated attack on the european union by mr lukashenko and mr putin. the fact that people are being flown into minsk, that they are being forcibly driven to the eu border and that they are being used for political purposes is a ruthless method. i therefore welcome the commission's recent proposal to include a blacklist for all modes of transport based on international agreements on trafficking in human beings and smuggling. the european union must not be made vulnerable to blackmail. only by being united can we stand up to authoritarian rulers! the migrants at the eu's external border are in urgent need of humanitarian assistance. the fact that people are being kept in bitter cold is unbearable and shows once again the brutality of the regime in minsk. it is good that the european union is providing concrete assistance and working with un agencies to support the people on the ground.
in writing. a lot has been said about the situation on the polish-belarusian border, which is also the eu's external border. i think it could have been solved very quickly. in june of this year, a group of 32 refugees, mostly from afghanistan, arrived at the border in usnarz. the polish government had already started "defending the border" which was not meant to be a real defense but to create the illusion that the government is strong and protects the security of poles. this is evidenced by the imposition of a state of emergency and the prohibition of media and ngos from entering the zone, which has prevented independent monitoring of the situation at the border and has given the government the opportunity to manipulate information. instead of allowing asylum procedures to be triggered, the president authorized pushbacks. as a result, children, women, and men were repeatedly taken to the forest and swamp. eleven people have been confirmed dead at the polish border, including a one-and-a-half-year-old child. a couple of women miscarried. undoubtedly, a large number of those who arrived at the border were brought in by the lukashenka regime. nevertheless, if the procedures were to be triggered, on the one hand, the weapons would be taken from lukashenka's hand, and poland would be shown as a country that can and wants to accept refugees from afghanistan, syria and yemen. it would have prevented deaths at the border and weeks of suffering for hundreds of people.
in writing. the situation on the polish-belarusian border is unsustainable in the long term. thousands of people and young children are exposed to extreme conditions in the middle of the forest and a humanitarian catastrophe is looming. this is an unprecedented attack by lukashenko on the eu's external borders using the most inhumane weapons. the use of migrants from third countries for political purposes is reprehensible and we therefore come with even tougher measures. people in need need of our help, dictators in need of punishment.
the belarusian opposition leader svetlana tichanovskaya embodies the voice of the opposition that lukashenko, like the population, is brutally suppressing in its own country. the way he uses migrants as a weapon for hybrid warfare is also unimaginable. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the strategic compass will become a basic instrument of european policy and should help europe to achieve its ambition as a world player. but this ambition starts in the border region itself. belarus is a stress test for our security and defence policy. lukashenko's cynical maneuvers give the eu member states the necessary impetus to act in unison. we must not give in to the provocative blackmail practices of a dictator. sanctions are welcome, but more is needed. we need to invest in our security quickly and more. the strategic compass should be our guide and good cooperation between the eu and nato is also at stake. we must also update and adapt european migration policy, which unfortunately is still in the making, to new developments if we are to prevent migrants from being used as a weapon in this hybrid war in the future.
in writing. the insolence of the lukashenko administration has only increased during the autumn. it has brought thousands of people from iraq and elsewhere in the middle east to the eu's external borders, and this man-made refugee crisis has resulted in completely unnecessary and easily preventable deaths. this is a cold-blooded hybrid operation by belarus aimed at destabilising the whole of europe. the white russian federation must be forced to cease its operation immediately. the eu must respond decisively to lukashenko's human rights violations and repression and resolutely extend the sanctions already in place. in addition, the eu should provide both material assistance and diplomatic support to the member states affected by the hybrid operation. the eu must remain united and show that it will not give in to blackmail.
in accordance with rule 241 (4), i wish to inform you that no request for a vote on the correction tabled by the empl commission, announced at the opening of yesterday's sitting, has been received. the adjustment is therefore deemed to be accepted.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the commission and the council on the condemnation of police violence against roma in the eu (2021/2907 ((rsp)). i would remind you that no debate during this monthly session will be a question-and-answer session and no blue cards will be accepted. as in the case of the recent monthly sessions, the possibility of voting at a distance from parliament's contact offices in the member states was provided for. i would also like to remind you that in the plenary chamber the speakers still take the floor from the main speaker. please check the list of speakers and come to the platform when it is time for you to speak.
president—in—office of the council. – madam president, commissioner, honourable members, i welcome the discussion on the position of roma in the european union. indeed, while the status of ethnic minorities is the responsibility of member states, it is important that the eu pay appropriate attention to this issue. all acts of discrimination, bias, hate speech and violence against any ethnic minority are unacceptable in 21st century europe. these acts are a sad reminder of violence perpetrated against roma and other ethnic groups by the authoritarian regimes of the 20th century. we do have eu legislation prohibiting discrimination on the grounds of ethnic or racial origin, as well as a framework decision on combating certain forms and expression of racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law. acting together as co—legislators, parliament and the council have also put in place legislation designed to safeguard and strengthen the rights of victims of crime and of their families. it is up to member states to implement this legislation, and it is their responsibility to maintain law and order. all this must be done in full respect of the rule of law. engaging local communities as a whole in this process is essential. at the same time, laws should be upheld in a non—discriminatory way and police should not be pressed into action when the use of force is justified and necessary. all this is essential, since each case of police violence can seriously damage trust in public authorities. the incidence of police violence against an ethnic group can be seen as an extreme example of systemic discrimination deeply rooted in society. at eu level, the agency for law enforcement training has been consistently offering a number of training courses focusing on respect for human rights in law enforcement activities. moreover, we emphasise preventive action rather than coercive measures. the council adopted conclusions on certain aspects of european preventive policy in 2019 and is in close contact with the european crime prevention network. this year, the council has also adopted a recommendation on roma equality, where it called for measures to effectively fight direct and indirect discrimination against roma. romani people face considerable discrimination and, with it, comes exclusion and poverty. as this parliament stated last year, many roma live in extremely precarious conditions and in very poor socio—economic circumstances. that is why the council recommendation seeks to give fresh momentum to roma inclusion policies, with a focus on equality, inclusion and participation. as part of this new drive, member states have presented their new strategic frameworks for roma inclusion to the commission. the fundamental rights agency will carry out regular surveys every four years, tracking progress. we should also do more to promote and communicate positive stories of integration and success of individual roma or local roma communities. honourable members, the three institutions presented here today have been close partners in the effort over the past decade to improve the situation of the roma community in support of the member states, who of course hold key competences in this area. we must do more to improve the marginalised situation of many of our roma citizens. there are already many examples of roma who reached beyond what at first sight appeared an environment deprived of opportunities and filled with prejudice and discrimination. we should encourage many more of them to seize the opportunities that do exist and, of course, make sure we keep creating those opportunities. empowerment goes hand in hand with responsible citizenship. what we need are more individuals among roma that are an integral and exemplary part of local and national communities where they live.
member of the commission. – madam president, as underlined repeatedly by the commission, we condemn any form of discrimination, racism and xenophobia targeting roma. such discrimination goes against the values that the european union is founded upon. the european commission is determined to protect fundamental rights, as enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the eu, including the respect for human dignity, equality and non-discrimination. there is no place for violence in europe, as there is no place for racism anywhere in the world. with regard to anti—roma racism, the eu roma strategic framework for equality, inclusion and participation, adopted last october, puts particular emphasis on the fight against discrimination and anti-gypsyism, along with the effective participation of roma civil society. this is essential in the process of advancing the agenda on roma equality, inclusion and participation at all levels and stages of policymaking, from the preparation of national roma inclusion strategies through their implementation, monitoring and evaluation. moreover, all member states shall be reminded of the 2021 council recommendation that, among others, encourages all member states to adopt and implement measures to effectively fight direct and indirect discrimination, including by tackling harassment, as well as anti-gypsyism, stereotyping, anti-roma rhetoric, hate speech, hate crime and violence against roma. the commission will continue its work to ensure that the union of equality becomes a reality for all. despite the european commission’s limited competences in this particular case, my services have immediately established contacts with the czech authorities, who convened a meeting of the government council for roma minority affairs on 30 june 2021. the commission called for an independent and thorough investigation by the competent czech authorities. i took note that the deputy public defender of rights, ms monika šimůnková, launched an independent investigation. i appreciate the efforts to properly investigate the case, and i wait with great expectation the results of this investigation. more generally, as regards equality bodies, these national bodies are essential in ensuring that individuals and groups facing discrimination can enjoy their rights in full. they should be able to effectively perform the tasks assigned to them under eu legislation. the current eu law leaves a wide margin of manoeuvre to member states on the powers and functioning of equality bodies. this results in major differences between national equality bodies, and many of them struggle with different levels of independence resources and competences. the commission commits to strengthening equality bodies by adopting a legislative proposal on standards for equality bodies by the end of 2022. the standards would cover, among others, the equality bodies’ mandate, powers independence and resources. i can only assure you that, as commissioner for equality, i will continue working together with the member states and do my utmost to deliver the commitment towards non—discrimination and roma inclusion. thank you for your attention and i look forward to your interventions.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would remind the house that on 19 june 2021, stanislav tomáš, a roma european citizen of the czech republic, died in a terrible episode of police brutality by suffocation to death. this would be reminiscent of the case of george floyd, with the only difference that in europe there has not been a movement that has resonated in all the latitudes of the union that shouts 'i can't breathe'. as the european union agency for fundamental rights denounces, the roma population in europe continues to be the victim of hate speech, collective punishment, arbitrary and racist police controls and brutality, and systematic segregation. it is therefore high time that the european union as a whole learns from this. in september 2020, this european parliament adopted a strategy against segregation and discrimination of the roma population and for their inclusion, and i believe that it is time for the european union to accompany this strategy with the adoption of a legislative initiative that is committed not only to the integration and inclusion of the roma population, but to a relentless fight against anti-gypsyism and against all the injustices that derive from the systematic segregation in the health, residential and schooling of the roma population in europe. it is not just a strategy, therefore: european legislation against anti-gypsyism.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, the european court of human rights in strasbourg delivered a judgment in april this year in a case of police use of force against three roma children in a police vehicle while they were being taken to a police station in 2009 in košice, slovakia. endless procedures for 12 years to prove the victims right. the system wasn't with these people. in democratic systems we entrust very important functions to the police forces and bodies and, precisely for this reason, we must deplore and prevent something like this from happening again, especially with minors. but this incident preceded another use of force by the police against the same children and three others in the police station of košic-sur. the water of discrimination in slovakia rings over and over again. and in the czech republic, as the chairman of the committee on civil liberties has indicated. european roma suffer from episodes of hostility and social stigmatisation and most cases go unreported. the police should be there to help them, to protect them, so they could report. tomáš's case of a police reduction resulting in death is absolutely chilling. anti-gypsyism is historically rooted. in this parliament we have heard messages that dehumanize children simply because they are roma. although we have had a practical guide for police services to prevent discrimination against the roma community for ten years now, there are many - many - who still do not know about these practices, because of what we are seeing. infringement, as i say, is a scourge, because it creates a culture of impunity. victims of prejudice, of hatred, must be able to trust the institutions and the police. the european union is a machine for recognising rights, but we have not created adequate protection mechanisms. let's keep that in mind. i never will.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. institutional racism against people of roma background is spreading in europe and is becoming deadly and real. on june 19, in teplice, a young roma man, stanislav tomáš, was pressed by a policeman for six minutes with his knee in his throat. stanislav died like george floyd. the fact that we are debating this today in the european parliament was only possible with massive pressure and the intergroup cooperation of members who have not lost their sense of justice. unfortunately, the commission has not published any specific position on police violence against people of romani background or in the case of stanislav tomáš. i ask: can political interests be put above the protection of a life? unfortunately, anti-gypsy police violence is at the bottom of the list of injustices to be fought in our society. once again, the recommendations to combat discrimination and racism are useless and do not save lives, especially the lives of people with a romani background. unfortunately, the eu's image also suffers in the fight against anti-gypsyism. nice words on a piece of paper won't change anything. recommendations will not combat this deadly practice, which in some cases is motivated by anti-gypsyism. how many roma people have to be victims of police violence, but also victims of poverty and social exclusion, before the commission follows the european parliament's call of 17 september 2020 and finally creates a law for the equality of inclusion and for the fight against anti-gypsyism? if the commission does not respond to this call, it means that 6.4 million eu citizens with roma backgrounds will not be able to expect equal participation and protection from racism. the european values would then be nothing but an empty shell.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, of course every human death is a tragedy and it must be investigated, without any doubt. what i cannot accept, however, in this conversation, in this debate, is that we are looking for a specific case that meets political needs and serves someone to build their political thesis. i cannot accept that a particular case is being discussed and not another particular case. you talk about police brutality and you discuss it formally in this room. when will any of you have a debate that condemns police brutality perpetrated by the authorities? for example, this weekend in the netherlands and in belgium, where there are people being shot, there is police violence. no, you won't, because there the victims don't fit the profile you're looking for, so you can make yourself interesting and get political support, which is a disgrace and should be a disgrace. and i'm going to ask you not to interrupt me. it's a matter of basic respect, ladies and gentlemen. so, colleagues, when we talk about violence, it can't be what you like about yourself or what you don't like about yourself. yeah, we saw two specific cases this week in bulgaria. two cases: an elderly woman in her 90s was beaten and robbed, a 17-year-old woman was attacked and set on fire by her cousin. when are you going to have a debate here to discuss this form of violence? i mean, both are violence, and violence is not acceptable. or will we choose violence that suits your political vision so you can run a political campaign? you'll never do that thing because the people who are dealing your cards won't let you. and that should make you sad and ashamed.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. "i can't breathe" were the dying words of george floyd, and the world listened for a moment. but that moment was short-lived, especially for young roman, who died in athens in a hail of police bullets. the murderer was congratulated by the greek minister of economy he had done a good job and was later even released. this is a blatant disregard for humanity, supported by a government that has made structural violence and racism its own business. this government, like other governments on a similar mission, has nothing to fear. it is the fruit of the tolerance of a union which has come to see solidarity as a partner and has lost its bearings in the confusion of national flags. there is no place for prosecuting police misconduct and fighting violence and racism, either in the eu's roma and sinti action plans or in practical policy. and, to be honest, i'm sick of hearing about them being integrated into the world, like they're aliens. these people have been living with us for eons. and somewhere in these eu paper mountains, people have been lost. it is a challenge and, above all, it is our job, our task, to put them back at the centre of european politics. because if the principle 'no man is worth less than another' is relativized in the eu, it is just a monster. and which of you, i ask, really wants to allow this?
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. protection, ridicule, and even violence can be experienced by any ethnic, national, or minority group. no matter where you live, there are always those whose minds are poisoned by hatred, nationalism, and xenophobia. we silesian people experienced this when after the war our silesian language and our culture were suppressed by the polish authorities. we are still waiting for the recognition of the silesian language, the silesian dialect, as a regional language. before, the germans made fun of silesian, saying wasser polnisch. but also in my silesia, which is overwhelmingly diverse and open, the roma were discriminated against. the roma of buchenwald's street in zabrze experienced xenophobia because they are different. i visited them a month ago. they told me about how in the '90s, their homes were frequented by bandits, skinheads, and violence. marian turski, a prisoner at auschwitz, said the 11th commandment: "do not be indifferent". both citizens and government cannot stand idly by while their fellow man is being betrayed, but government is also responsible for shaping policy in such a way that everyone can live with dignity. it is good that today the european parliament is dealing with the problem of violence against roma by the police. we come here from different parts of europe, with different baggage of experience and traditions. that is why we in this house in particular should know how important it is to create legislation to prevent such shameful practices, because roma are also europeans.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the report by mr abir al-sahlani, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the report with recommendations to the commission on policy and legislation on legal migration (2020/2255 ((inl)) (a9-0314/2021). i would remind you that no debate during this monthly session will be a question-and-answer session and no blue cards will be accepted. as in the case of the recent monthly sessions, the possibility of voting at a distance from parliament's contact offices in the member states was provided for. i would also like to remind you that in the plenary chamber the speakers still take the floor from the main speaker. please check the list of speakers and come to the platform when it is time for you to speak.
mr. president, i have to ask you... my fellow members of the house of representatives! today's report from the european parliament is yet another example of the immorality that has been going on here in this house for some time. you hypocritically present yourselves as defenders of human rights, while insisting on the exclusion of poor countries in these reports. they say that immigration is good for everyone, that it's good for the economy, and that it's also a way to help poor countries. it's all a bunch of lies. the opposite is true. mass immigration, which means emigration from the emitter countries, is a loss for everyone. it is a matter of considerable financial cost to europe and a threat to european culture, which, unlike many in this house, the people of europe do not want to give up. and for the more backward and poorer countries and continents, it's just a small price to pay. if europe really wants to help these regions, it should not be draining them of their best-qualified workforce. you don't have to force it. it's more like taking help to where the problem is. economic investment, infrastructure development or humanitarian aid must help to create hope for a better life.
mr president, those who believe in zero immigration are deceiving and lying to the people, because in reality, it does not exist. but those who let anyone in in any way serve the people, because we know that uncontrolled immigration is the best fuel for xenophobia. here's a solution and a method. the solution is to let each country decide freely how many legal immigrants it will allow into its territory. this decision must not be left to europe. it must belong to each sovereign country. one method: the parliament of each country must be able to vote democratically on annual visa ceilings based on factors that it will determine itself. for example, zero is for countries of origin that refuse to take back their illegal migrants. for each country and therefore for the european union as a whole, the only way to act with common sense, firmness and humanity is to choose immigration.
mr president, the opening up of legal, controlled and secure channels is one of the conditions for implementing a mature and worthy of our union migration policy. i would like to send this message to all the sorcerer's apprentices who, in several member states, including my own, are embarking on the most stupid and inflammatory inventory of ideas and auctions. on several occasions, notably with my report on migration and employment voted in may, with the adoption of the blue card, and now with this report, we have shown that talking about migration must not be synonymous with chaos, despair or exploitation. a migration policy that establishes legal and safe pathways to the eu is possible to fill the labour shortage in key sectors and to offer safe pathways to those who wish to reach our continent. i am also pleased that this report focuses on the conditions of low- and medium-skilled workers, who are often overlooked by the legislation, and the most vulnerable victims of smuggling networks. however, the sectoral approach to labour migration is not a panacea. we need to look further and work towards the development of a single migration code defining general rules for entry and residence in our member states. this could be a great step forward and a great ambition for the future.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate the rapporteur on this report. over the next few years, migration movements will increase. this is due to, for example, climate change and its effects. the report makes a significant point of calling for the strengthening of legal and safe migration routes for people in need of protection, such as resettlement schemes, humanitarian visas and humanitarian corridors. the lack of prospects for providing security for their families causes forced migration. asylum seekers should be able to apply for international protection. the new trend in the eu's migration policy is to turn away, to push migrants away, which only encourages the development of smuggling networks that lure migrants with promises and endanger their lives. this is happening on the polish-belarusian border. i believe that the external borders of the union should be protected. however, every migrant has the right to ask for asylum, although not everyone qualifies. these are procedures based on fundamental rights. the procedures should be left to the applicants, not the border guards.
in writing. poland recognises the need for a strategic approach to legal migration aimed at attracting the labour migrants needed in the european union to fill labour shortages. i share the view that the needs of the eu labour market and the eu's competitiveness in the fight for talent require an intensification of efforts to attract highly qualified workers from third countries. however, this cannot be done at the expense of destabilising legal migration systems and limiting the competences of member states in this area. poland supported the adoption of the new blue card directive, but it is difficult to see the need to harmonise the conditions for the recruitment of low and medium-skilled workers. i believe that the current conditions for obtaining eu long-term resident status, as well as the current exemptions from the directive, are appropriate. i share the view that there is no urgent need to revise the long-term resident directive. poland believes that talent partnerships should be developed primarily with the western balkan and eastern partnership countries. the design of partnership programmes should be based on effective mechanisms for collecting information on the demand for occupations, qualifications and skills at national and regional level. poland has become an attractive country for a significant number of labour migrants in recent years, and labour migration is an important factor in poland's socioeconomic development, so initiatives aimed at facilitating the flow of safe, legal immigration are valuable to us.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by thanking my fellow rapporteurs for their hard work, the chairman of the committee on budgets, the commissioner. we really worked day and night and the result is. we are pleased that the european parliament has provided new funding for a project prepared by the european commission. this 479 million euro was really well spent, because both erasmus will therefore benefit scientists, professors and young people and the european horizon, and also, of course, health. the lift programme has been strengthened and, importantly, the european union and the countries in the european union are facing all kinds of disasters, so we are also pleased with this increase of 211 million euros for humanitarian aid. such actions by the european union build european solidarity and we all help each other when we need it. i would also like to thank you very warmly on behalf of poland and the poles for recognizing the problem of the security of the borders of poland and the european union. it's about the conflict that russia has created with belarus on the eastern border. this new line, let's say, the financial line, which talks about 25 million euros for the protection of the external borders, is really good news for poland, for the european union and this kind of information builds our common european solidarity. on behalf of poland and the poles, i thank you very much for this proposal.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i think we have today the tangible effect of what happened in glasgow, our political declarations. a few euros increased the ets, the european carbon trading system. this is obviously very pleasing to the commissioner, because the commissioner believes that the ets should be increased, regardless of energy prices and the costs to citizens. but what's also relevant is that we haven't convinced the world to function in the same system. so, as far as the "fit for 55" package is concerned, it needs to be seriously reviewed, these taxes, orders and penalties must be seriously analysed, and above all the document on cbam must be reviewed, because we did not see any willingness on the part of any country to participate in the discussion, and at the same time we did not hear answers to the question of how many european union companies have moved their production to china and india. at the same time, an important thing happened: it was calculated who was responsible for the emission of carbon dioxide and the storage of carbon dioxide since 1850. and of course, it's china, it's the united states, note -- in the top ten, there's germany -- which are the countries that don't want to discuss that they bear the greatest responsibility also now, also financially, and they say to the whole world, "you answer the same, you have to pay the same". that's a bad omen for these depositions. it's a bad omen for what we're ambitious to do ourselves. and one good thing that happened is that there was a discussion about absorbers, absorbers. if we want to remove carbon dioxide, we have to use modern technology. it just can't be a parallel, expensive system, a system built alongside ets.
mr. chairman, please! the highlights of the cop26 climate summit can be summed up in a few words: joe biden has fallen asleep, greta thunberg is hysterical, and xi jinping is not coming at all. it's a bit of a shame that the world climate summits are losing not only their importance, but their relevance. the glasgow talks have been ignored by the leaders of the world's biggest polluters, led by china. this does not bode well for the image of the european union, which has made the green goods its main, or rather its only, export product. we're taking on the burden of global climate change, even though we're only responsible for nine percent of the world's carbon emissions. the european union could achieve climate neutrality tomorrow, and the earth won't even know it. we are witnessing a global mass madness: a concerted effort by (perhaps pseudo) politicians to completely decimate and destroy our enterprises, our industry, our european prosperity. radical environmentalists in glasgow warned of a climate apocalypse. i would like to warn of the social apocalypse that awaits us if we continue to engage in climate radicalism that brings chaos, poverty and fear. mr. timmermans, i recommend realism, realism, realism. i'm not saying that you should be a realist.
mr. chairman, please! we all agree that we need to fight climate change. it is good that the glasgow summit recognised the need for greater international cooperation and support for countries facing the challenge of a just transition. only together, with respect for each other, can we achieve the goals we set. a just transformation is crucial. each country has its own energy specificity. the economies of countries that are not dependent on coal are different from those that rely on coal. you can't compare and put everyone in the same basket. it's not in the best interest of the case and it creates confusion, and any further attempts at intimidation and financial blackmail are unacceptable. i realize this is going to be a tough fight. but we must remember, and i want to emphasize again, that only by working together and respecting each other can we achieve success.
mr. chairman, please! mom, save the earth, my 11-year-old daughter teresa is asking me. what have we done to make the children beg us to save the earth? my daughter doesn't know that i can't save the earth, but today she's going to learn that her voice will be heard in the european parliament. i speak to you today in the voice of an 11-year-old. enough of the deception, enough of the pseudo-ecological bullshit, enough of the pretending and the pretending, enough of the postponing of decisions, enough of the selling of our children's lives for petro and coal dollars. climate disaster is a deadly, rapidly progressing disease that we're getting ourselves into. we die, even though we have the cure to stop the disease. so who are we if we don't take the medicine, and we still don't trust the doctors who tell us that without the medicine we don't have much longer to live? who are we? the idiots? the cynics? the suicide bombers? no, we don't kill ourselves, we kill our children, and they're the ones begging us to spare their lives. let's hear them out, please.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the glass dilemma that we're talking about today is not about whether it's half full or half empty after the last conference. the dilemma of the glass is that it's just going to be empty in a moment, because in many places in the world, there's going to be a shortage of water. and that is the real dilemma. if we're talking about global challenges, we need to think locally. i represent poland in this debate, which is the biggest polluter in europe. the country where the government is cutting down the oldest forest in europe białowieża forest. a country where 100,000 people die every year from smog. we must be united on this issue and i know that the commissioner is united on this issue, thinking about energy justice. the poor people know that if we talk about the energy revolution, their energy bills will be lower, their lives will be better, without worrying about their future, also financial, not only energy, not only ecological. i'm keeping my fingers crossed, chief.
mr president, it is difficult to assess in one and a half minutes a summit as important as the one in glasgow. i agree with vice president timmermans. we've had a number of successes in deforestation, methane agreements. i have to say, actually, that the whole world has joined in seeing the climate threat as one of the greatest threats to humanity, that's certainly a success. but there are also some negatives that came out of this summit. i was disappointed by china's stance, but unfortunately so were some other countries, such as australia. these countries have advanced technology and i think they could have done more with us. we certainly see that the commitments below 2 degrees are probably smaller than we thought, it's a big challenge for the future. we're also seeing much higher sea level rise than we thought. what's next? i would like to remind you that in the czech republic, former president václav klaus emphasized that man's impact on global warming is minimal, if not outright denied. and we lost 20 years. we can't afford to lose any more years. we should adopt the principle that we don't have to be zero in all areas, but the overall impact must be absolutely zero in emissions. we can go to substitution options, proper forestry policy, carbon capture, ccs, there are just enough options where we don't have to be totally dogmatic. but it is clear that europe must set an example and that is our duty.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, for me cop26 means 25 years of constantly questioning ourselves, whether we agree or not, about how much and what we have achieved. unfortunately, nature has given us far more signs and warnings than have come from the squares of activists and theoretical debates. i am one of those who believe that we have made progress and that we still have to make progress, but i am convinced that the strong momentum achieved by europe, with an ambitious and courageous strategy, must be characterized by a practical sense, which in many cases has been overwhelmed by demagogy and ideological clashes, fostering the mistaken belief that the environment is the concern of some and not of all. the environment is not a religious faith. what nature has given us belongs to all of us and we must all work to safeguard it and enable those who come after us to enjoy it. europe has done well to take the global stage in the fight against climate change, stimulating even the most reticent countries like china. however, i believe that this must be done by involving our production system, which should not be demonized, also because we europeans are already the most virtuous in respecting the environment, unlike those who continue to produce under different conditions, generating unfair competition and weakening europe's productive autonomy. one thing is certain: if europe really wants to be a leader in the fight against climate change, it must have a strong and competitive economy to help developing countries too and to finance a green transition where environmental, social and economic sustainability has declined.
mr. president, in paris in 2015, there was a promise to try to prevent global warming beyond one and a half degrees. but the sequel says otherwise. we have had a failed summit in glasgow because we were more satisfied with wishes than with making concrete commitments. our countries, particularly in the mediterranean, are experiencing continuing heat waves resulting in devastating fires, while other countries are flooded and some areas are threatened with extinction due to melting ice. let's be honest with each other. the clock is ticking. it is unacceptable that, while we are trying to reduce our emissions, the other inhabitants of the planet are content with wishes without any real commitment. we cannot allow violence to increase the use of coal for energy purposes at the expense of greater profits. europe accounts for less than 10% of the global burden. the united states, russia, china and india, who bear the greatest responsibility, must run faster, because there is no time. and we shouldn't be too tolerant. because whatever we do as europe, if the other players don't cooperate, the game is lost forever.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me react to some of the things honourable members said. first, the mythical cost of the transition and that climate policy is ideological. i think by now we can agree that denying the climate crisis is ideological. science is clear. the evidence is clear. one would have to be blind not to see what is happening in our natural environment globally, everywhere. one would have to be blind not to want to read the report of the global climate panel which is so clear, and the only reason we made such progress in glasgow is because all countries on earth have now seen the devastating effect of a 1.1 degree increase of temperature in relation to pre-industrial levels. that is why we now have the 1.5 enshrined in our decisions and that we have to insist on updating the nationally determined contributions (ndcs) for next year. i would implore, i would ask all of you, wherever you’re from, if you talk about the cost of the transition, in the same breath look at the cost of non-transition, which is so much higher. not just in financial terms, but in human terms. what are you going to say, dear friends from the ecr, to the miners in silesia, if you just say, stay put, don’t change. what are you going to say to those even from your party in wielkopolska and other parts of poland, who are engaging in this transition, who have the audacity to say to their voters, guys, there is no future in coal and we need to change. please, be as audacious as they are and explain that this transition is necessary for our survival, and that the longer we wait with this transition, the higher the cost will be. and, as robert biedroń has just said, 400 000 europeans die prematurely every year because of bad air quality. they deserve better from us. so please, when you talk about the costs, talk about all the costs, and not seeing the cost of non-transition – that is ideological. facing the climate crisis is science and, with all due respect to the right side of parliament, it is great that there are no longer hardly any climate deniers in your camp, but you came a bit late to the party so others are a bit wary of whether this is genuine. but i say, on my behalf, it is genuine, also because the industry understands this and is moving in this direction. the second point i wanted to make is about the other countries. two years ago, it was a lonely position to be in as the european union. the us had as leader a climate denier, china didn’t want to do anything. look at where we are now. they’re all declaring carbon neutral or climate neutral goals. even russia has done that. russia is even introducing the first pricing of carbon, which would have been unthinkable a year ago. so the world is moving and you are absolutely right. on our own we will not get there, but our example is being followed. china is introducing an emissions-trading system based on our emissions-trading system. other major economies know they will all have to put a price on carbon, so they will all be faced with the risk of carbon leakage so they’re all looking at systems such as the carbon border adjustment mechanism (cbam) and comparable systems to avoid carbon leakage. our solidarity with the developing world was clear in glasgow. we pushed others, such as the americans who didn’t want to do that, to do more on adaptation finance. we put the money on the table when it was necessary to do that. somebody mentioned vanuatu, 300 000 people at huge risk. they were well represented with 32 delegates. that is the advantage of the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc). they do represent more widely those who are most vulnerable. vanuatu had more representatives at cop than some of our member states and i think that’s a good thing so that their voices are well heard. we will have to look at many other measures to keep the developing world on our side. we need to look in the imf at what we can do with special drawing rights (sdrs) to mobilise them to help climate finance. a wonderful leader such as the prime minister of barbados, mia mottley, has given us the direction in which we need to go. we need to listen to them. we need to make sure we amplify their voice and we give them the solutions they need. enfin, et je poursuis en français, parce que c’est surtout dans la presse française et ici, dans les débats des francophones, qu’on insiste sur l’europe divisée. l’europe n’était pas divisée à la cop. au début, on disait «l’europe est divisée, on ne la voit pas, elle ne négocie pas», etc. cela, on ne le dit plus parce qu’il est évident que l’europe a été très présente. et je dois ici rendre hommage à la présidence slovène, car c’est grâce à la présidence slovène que j’ai pu négocier tout le temps au nom de toute l’union européenne. c’est grâce aux réunions qu’on a eues avec tous les ministres. aucun ministre n’est intervenu dans les débats en plénière. on m’a laissé la parole au nom de tous les états membres de l’union européenne. c’est ce qui a fait la force de l’union européenne. nous n’étions pas divisés. maintenant, on arrive avec un autre argument: le nucléaire. le nucléaire prouverait que les européens sont divisés. le choix énergétique des états membres est un choix souverain. il y aura des états membres qui voudront avoir le nucléaire et il y aura des états membres qui ne voudront pas. mais cela ne nous empêche pas d’avoir des buts en commun pour décarboner notre économie, pour arriver à la neutralité climatique en 2050. donc, ne laissez pas dire que nous sommes divisés. on a montré que nous pouvions être des leaders à la cop. on a montré qu’on a des projets que d’autres n’ont pas encore. on est copiés partout dans le monde. on a vu aussi les principaux émetteurs adhérer à nos objectifs. donc oui, c’est vrai: nous sommes encore loin du but. c’est vrai, nous avons un travail immense à faire et ce sera terriblement difficile. mais il faut convaincre tout le monde. c’est bien d’avoir un but en 2050 ou 2060, mais comme l’a dit camus, la vraie générosité envers l’avenir consiste à tout donner au présent.
the chairman of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. in conclusion, i would like to thank you for the debate, for your views and also for the words you, mr commissioner, addressed to the slovenian presidency. international engagement with strong, rules-based multilateralism is key to achieving successful outcomes in addressing climate change. this was also noted by most of the speakers today. we came back from glasgow with a strong paris agreement and strengthened global climate ambitions, which further fills the gaps in achieving the long-term goals of the paris agreement. some of you have expressed disappointment today at what has been achieved, but i take this message as being addressed primarily to those who have not been bold enough to commit, not to the european union. of course, greater ambition is needed on a global scale if we are to reach the 1.5°c target. and i am confident that the european union, together with the other parties, will make a strong effort to close this gap as soon as possible. it is also a fact that the european union contributes only eight per cent of global emissions and that it cannot solve the problem on its own. we are committed to meeting our climate goals and we always encourage others to do the same. we lead by example. each of us must take our share of responsibility to ensure that our collective efforts are effective and successful. and here, important progress has been made. responding to the challenges of and adapting to climate change is essential to create a more resilient and greener economy and society as a whole. through the european union recovery fund, we now have a mandate for member states to do everything we can to green the transition. thank you again for today's discussion and welcome. good work.
the debate is closed. the sitting is adjourned for a few minutes until 12 noon, when the formal sitting scheduled for our agenda will take place. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. – reading the media coverage on the cop26 one would say that it was all doom and gloom. and, although we have to be honest and say that the conference did not yield the results which we all hoped for, it still brought certain progress. now, the special eurobarometer on climate change from april reports that climate change is the problem number one for many europeans. however, the differences between the member states are staggering. for example, 43% of swedes consider climate change to be the single most serious problem facing the world, while in my home country croatia only 9% of citizens agree with that. in bulgaria it is 5%, and in romania and italy 7%. i think it is important to lower the gap in awareness on climate change in the eu. the fight against climate change must become a part of daily life of all the citizens. once we have achieved that, the bottom-up approach will put pressure on the governments to further increase their nationally determined contributions.
the cop26 concluded on 13 november in glasgow with an agreement which could have been more ambitious, but which nevertheless reflects some progress which the spanish socialist delegation welcomes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the transport sector. other highlights of the agreement include the goal of not exceeding the 1.5 degree temperature warming limit, the need to eliminate fossil fuel subsidies and reduce coal use, and the importance of forests in mitigating climate change. the socialist group welcomes the work of frans timmermans in the negotiations and the work of the european leadership at the summit. the small progress achieved is a major step towards the objectives of the paris agreement, but we believe it is not enough. the spanish socialists insist on the need for the eu to continue to lead by example, adapting ambitious climate policies and cooperating with the rest of the international actors to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees.
in writing. it is vital to keep the un climate agreement alive and vibrant as a process, because only then will it be possible to make decisions and take steps forward globally that affect all countries. but we need to double the amount of emissions cuts by 2030. it is therefore important that the eu, the us, china and india together and individually significantly raise the level of ambition for the agreement now. good ways to do this include the circular economy, sustainable finance and the shift to renewable energy. we must abandon fossil energy on a fast timetable.
the cop26 concluded on 13 november in glasgow with an agreement which could have been more ambitious, but which nevertheless reflects some progress which the spanish socialist delegation welcomes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the transport sector. other highlights of the agreement include the goal of not exceeding the 1.5 degree temperature warming limit, the need to eliminate fossil fuel subsidies and reduce coal use, and the importance of forests in mitigating climate change. the socialist group welcomes the work of frans timmermans in the negotiations and the work of the european leadership at the summit. the small progress achieved is a major step towards the objectives of the paris agreement, but we believe it is not enough. the spanish socialists insist on the need for the eu to continue to lead by example, adapting ambitious climate policies and cooperating with the rest of the international actors to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees.
in writing. according to fao data, support for farmers amounts to almost usd 540 billion per year. unfortunately, these funds are mostly used to support industrial farming, which is harmful to health and the environment and is causing a climate catastrophe. the next climate summit did not make any concrete decisions on this matter. areas like energy and transportation were given all day, while agriculture and the new food system were marginalised or ignored. world leaders are still unable to connect the dots or are unwilling to acknowledge to the public that the current food system is bankrupt, exacerbating climate catastrophe, destroying biodiversity, contributing to the destruction of valuable natural lands, causing growing social inequalities, and - which is particularly important to me - causing the suffering and death of billions of so-called farm animals. how can you participate in the climate debate, how can you make decisions about the future, when you don't have the courage to stand up to the meat lobbyists? symbolically, the fact that global leaders are not yet ready to discuss the harmfulness of animal husbandry is shown by the fact that approximately 60% of the food available to the participants of the summit contained meat or dairy. the government not only failed to debate veganism as a necessary choice, but they failed to even give up animal products for two weeks.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. the term 'global village' has long been synonymous with the present reality. but the pandemic example shows that running this village also means facing significant inequalities. and when we look at covid-19 vaccination rates, we can see that there are tremendous disparities, especially in developing countries, with respect to our continent. a global pandemic requires global solutions. therefore, in addition to continuing to promote the safety of vaccines, we should pursue a strategy to ensure universal access to vaccines. ensure that countries contribute the promised vaccine doses to the covax initiative and implement mechanisms for equitable distribution of vaccines at global level, supported by the commission's guidance on voluntary licensing. we should encourage and support the willingness to share vaccines, as my country, poland, has done since august, with concrete solidarity actions and donations of around 4 million vaccines. only a united approach will allow us to achieve the ambitious covid-19 summit goal of vaccinating 70 percent of the population of each country by september next year.
madam president! global solidarity and partnership is the only effective way to end the pandemic. poland supports global initiatives and cooperation to accelerate equitable and equal access to vaccines for all countries in the world, so that their economies can recover from the pandemic, but above all to reduce mortality, reduce the scale of complications, so that people who are sick can get over the disease easily. for this reason, we have decided to support covax with a voluntary contribution of eur 750 000. in addition, poland is willing to share with countries in need as a gesture of solidarity, and so far we have donated or sold more than 13 million vaccines to ukraine, taiwan, uzbekistan, kyrgyzstan, serbia, bosnia and herzegovina, georgia and other countries, among others. we are currently preparing for poland to play a coordinating role in facilitating the supply of covid-19 vaccines from the member states of the european union to the eastern partnership countries.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the european union has an ambitious climate policy, it has a 'fit for 55', it has more and more renewable energy. but it also has rising energy prices, growing exclusion and energy poverty, and growing dependence on imported energy sources. it also has empty gas stores and more and more europeans who cannot afford to pay such high energy bills. why is this happening? yes, because it's time to finally reflect on whether the costs of transformation and the directions of transformation are right. whether it is necessary to verify that the cost of this transformation is not too high. because you can say this: there is not a word in this report about nord stream 2 and its impact on what is happening, for example, in the countries of central and eastern europe, about the problems that arise from it. gazprom is the king of europe. the empty gas tanks are the best proof of that. the report said that the commission would monitor the situation as winter approaches. i think that for the 31 million europeans who are already suffering from energy poverty, monitoring alone is not enough. there must be decisive action taken.
mr. chairman, please! the european commission's report describes progress in the clean energy transition. unfortunately, there's a little bit of a shortage of relevant facts about the current energy situation. in the face of the energy sector's brutal paralysis, two questions arise: will we be able to provide electricity for the next decade, given the ever-increasing demand for energy in the european market? will our citizens, our small and large businesses be able to afford to pay their electricity bills? let me be clear, both of these questions need to be answered "no". the european union is experiencing unprecedented power outages, unprecedented energy price increases. if we want to break out of this vicious circle, we need to reset our energy transformation. the european union will suffer not only a political but also a civilizational defeat if people are forced to reduce their energy consumption just because of a cloudy day or a wind that has stopped blowing. commissioner, decarbonization is absolutely premature.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current economic recovery is accompanied by an increase in energy prices, but just as we have always been able to overcome crises with common european solutions, i am convinced that the way out of the current situation is once again to find common solutions in the energy sector. it is european cooperation in research and development, in infrastructure interconnection and in the joint purchasing of selected energy raw materials that can lead to better use of resources, to greater efficiency, which will be reflected not only in the better competitiveness of our products but also in better prices for our citizens. the european union has always been a world leader in setting high standards in energy price savings and climate protection. in the context of the just concluded climate summit and the targets we have set ourselves, it is necessary to say that any efforts to reduce emissions will be useless if the countries that pollute the most do not also participate. we must also engage in active and effective climate and energy diplomacy to get others to adopt our environmental standards. we must not do this to the detriment of our economy and in particular of small and medium-sized enterprises, which bear the brunt of the various regulations and also make a significant contribution to energy payments. the current situation, with unprecedented energy prices and crises, should challenge us to complete a real energy union. only then can we overcome the crisis and prepare for the new challenges ahead.
mr president, this autumn we talked a lot about energy because of the prices. rapid measures are needed, but we may not lose the sight in the horizon. the yearly report of the energy union provides a good overview of what we have reached and what remains to be done. i thank you, commissioner, for prioritising breaking the dependency, r&d and climate. the member states also have a big responsibility in the green transition, and the european union level needs to act too. the eu has to support development and research and the uptake of the clean innovations. new technologies are crucial for the transition to be economically possible. the eu’s climate neutrality goal 2050 means that we have new technologies in place before the regions who only set targets for 2060 or even beyond. member states know their energy mix; they should act as well, and they should have acted. in finland, for example, nowadays we have 85% emission-free electricity, and we are among the cheapest countries for the electricity. national law also bans the use of coal by 2029, and in 15 years we have cut the coal usage by 75%. change is possible, and i want to ask for action.
mr president, in the cold month of december, we are expecting two heated decisions from the commission. firstly, on nuclear. now here i am not just asking the commission to take good notice of the rapidly-increasing political support for nuclear energy throughout europe, i am also asking them to respect science, as reflected in the recent jrc report. nuclear needs to be added to the taxonomy, both current and future generation reactors. now secondly, this parliament adopted a very ambitious hydrogen strategy on ramping up the hydrogen market here in europe. but apparently, the sympathetic additionality requirement is actually hampering the large-scale production of green hydrogen. matching the timing of electrolysis and additional renewable energy coming into operation is, in practice, a major hurdle for investors. the commission should bring forward, i believe, rules that enable, instead of frustrating, green investment, and i am counting on the commissioner to present two warmly-welcomed proposals for delegated acts in the cold month of december.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, italy has just decided to finance drilling in the arctic, just after signing the boga in glasgow, in order to undertake not to finance fossil fuels abroad. the commission still wants to use citizens' money to finance gas-related projects in the fifth list of projects of common interest and still €56 billion a year is given to fossil fuels in europe. instead, the number one measure to get us off fossil fuels, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to reduce our dependence on foreign energy, to create green jobs, to fight energy poverty and to reduce our energy bills is the one that is still very little talked about, and i would call it the cinderella of history, which is energy efficiency. increasing the rate of building renovation by 3% a year could create up to 2 million jobs. so what are we waiting for to make energy efficiency the real story?
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. there is no energy union without solidarity, and that solidarity is lacking in the european union today, with poland unilaterally opposing russia's energy policy of dividing the countries of europe. there should never be a european approval for nordstream and nordstream 2. these are two projects which openly threaten the political and energy cohesion of the european union. when we talk about energy today, we cannot ignore the topic of skyrocketing electricity prices. this is a flip side of a poorly planned and damaging to european economies green energy policy. a clear example of this is the manipulation of the renewable energy certificates market, an almost 100% increase in nine months in the price of certificates. without a profound change in this market, it is not possible to lower energy prices and to carry out any green transformation, which is the dream of the euroleft in particular. for this reason, thinking of our citizens who bear the costs of the eu's climate policy every day, we should consider suspending the eu's energy and climate package as soon as possible and, above all, abolishing the green certificate system. otherwise, ordinary families, ordinary citizens will pay for the dreams of the world's great ones.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. prime minister morawiecki was very keen to appear again in the european parliament he wanted to defend the polish border here and to build on the successes of the european commission. i'm very sorry that he didn't want to come here today to talk about polish coal and the energy transition. he could explain why he gave away 3.5 billion euros to the miners, most of which was to go to my upper silesia. but, prime minister, i understand you're in a lot of trouble. the commission's report on the state of the energy union gives us a clear signal that the energy transition is at risk. and while renewables are increasing, it's still taking too long. but it's not the miners from silesia who are to blame for the fact that the prime minister has not yet made a final statement on the move away from coal. they've been fooled for the last six years by propaganda and slogans about 200 years of coal mining. but only when they were needed before the election. and instead of using up silesian coal, the polish government is importing russian coal. what, by accident? i don't think he is! the silesian voivodeship needs new, green jobs. i know that, commissioner frans timmermans knows that, but not prime minister morawiecki or president duda. what a party!
mr. chairman, please! once again, we are witnessing an attack on the sovereign government of a member state of the european union. after poland and hungary, today it's time for slovenia. this time, prime minister janszy's government is the target. this attack is contrary to the existing treaties, which clearly state that justice matters remain the exclusive domain of the member states. after warsaw and budapest, today ljubljana and the citizens of slovenia, who democratically decided who and what party should govern, are the target of the attack of the left-wing majority in this parliament. perhaps it is time, ladies and gentlemen, that you recognize that your neo-marxist visions, your reasoning attempts to educate the countries of central and eastern europe, do not necessarily divide the citizens of our countries. you talk about values, you talk about the rule of law, but, you know, we recognize these true values in the old and new testaments, in roman law, in greek philosophy, in aristotelian logic, not in neo-marxist utopias. we were joining the european union by robert schuman, by konrad adenauer, by gaspar de montet, not by karl marx. we're entering the european union, where the member states are the sovereign entities of the community we signed up for, not some conglomerate, superstate that pops into your head and you want to write the next scenarios of a great new world.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. this debate is actually something that we think about, both in poland and - i think - in hungary. we stand in solidarity today with the slovenians who democratically elected a government and no one has questioned the democratic elections and the legality of those elections. in our consciousness, you say, there is no such thing as a sovereign state, free citizens, democratic decisions or free elections. because anything that is not done according to the german-dutch plan for a federal europe is a threat to you and a violation of the rule of law. at the same time, i remind you, it's swept under the carpet of silence and indifference. the bloody repression of protests in the netherlands, in belgium, we bypass the list of judges in spain by a wide arc of silence, because everywhere your left-liberal party rules. yesterday poland, today hungary and today slovenia too are on the attack line against the eu institutions. ladies and gentlemen, we demand respect for the democratically elected governments of our countries. we demand respect for our citizens. if they want change, they have to make it happen, and you consider that change a violation of the rule of law. i don't think we should agree to that.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. although today we talk about rare diseases, nearly 36 million europeans suffer from them. 75% of them start in childhood. 80% of these diseases are genetic. 50% of patients with a rare disease are children. and i say this as a pediatrician and as the former health minister of my country, who started the reimbursement of drugs for rare diseases. these diseases are serious, chronic, progressive, and very often have a tragic end. in europe, many people are still being born, living and dying from rare diseases without a diagnosis. one in four of those with the disease are not diagnosed before the age of five. 95% of patients are not getting treatment. they lack access to adequate medical and social care that would provide them with a better quality of life. we see a lack of specialists and centres of expertise for specific rare diseases. and yet these centers could be built. centres that operate in accordance with the harmonised standards developed for the member states by the european union committee of experts on rare diseases. the most important thing after a rare disease diagnosis is to have access to modern treatment options, which unfortunately are still too expensive. in my country, poland, pharmacotherapy is available to only 3-5 percent of patients. the other 95% of patients benefit from conservative treatment and rehabilitation. commissioner, we've done a great job during the pandemic. we've been able to negotiate good prices for vaccines with the pharmaceutical companies, and today i'm asking you to consider creating a buying platform where we, in a position of power, could negotiate good prices with the companies for the drugs that are already being developed for rare diseases. i want to make sure that these medicines are equally available to children and adults with rare diseases in eastern and western europe, in these poorer and richer countries. they deserve it.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. i support the work on the revision of the european union action plan on rare diseases, whose overarching objective is that by 2030 no patient affected by a rare disease should be left without care. it seems reasonable that european reference networks and existing national plans and strategies should gain new synergies, given that we do not have a comprehensive updated approach to this problem at european level. i therefore agree that the classification of the register of rare diseases should be upgraded and that new methods of introducing diagnostics of rare diseases should be reconsidered through the continuous dissemination of screening and genetic testing, and in particular the functioning of the network of reference centres. healthcare for patients with rare diseases must be about both increasing the availability of highly specialised medical care and the availability of drug therapies together with updating available technologies.
in writing. action for people affected by rare diseases is an area where the value of european integration is evident. there are about 6,000 rare diseases, and we know very little about them. the cost of research is high, and the treatments are unprofitable. without a common european strategy, many patients will never have the chance to receive proper diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation. rare diseases affect 30 million people in europe. often genetically determined, they begin in childhood and, due to the difficulty of diagnosis and lack of treatment, lead to progressive loss of health, disability, isolation, stigma and exclusion. the last 10 years have shown that there is much to be done at european level: reference networks have been set up to bring together the knowledge and talents of the most outstanding specialists. we have the first experiences, summaries and great material from the rare2030 forward-looking study, which is the result of intensive cooperation between experts from all over europe. the study contains specific recommendations and scenarios. the approach adopted, which is worth spreading, based on the anticipation of future trends, allows us to prepare for the challenges and opportunities that the coming years will bring. we need a strategy that enables earlier, faster diagnosis, access to medication, holistic approaches to care and treatment. i therefore look forward to further commission action, including a review of the rare disease strategy and network achievements, and to a dynamic work on the implementation of the rare2030 recommendation.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. commissioner, mr president of the court! it's like that american movie "one year from now, same time". we meet here every year, we always get a solid report. mr. president, thank you for that. i note that the estimated error in payments from the union budget has stabilised at a rather low level of 2,7% over the last few years. same thing happened last year and two years ago. this year, however, the union's budget is increasing the most at-risk expenditure. in the area of consistency, the error rate has been reduced by almost 1%. the same is true for the natural resources of this area. i think it's worth pointing out that when it comes to the expenses that are being made in the form of reimbursement of costs incurred, the level of error has continued to be a significant drop, almost a percentage point, less than 5% to 4% this year. finally, it should be noted that this report must be seen in the context of the multiannual nature of the european union's intervention, net financial corrections. here too, according to the methodology of the european commission, the level of risk in the implementation of programmes is less than 1%, which is well below the materiality threshold. that's generally good news, although you have to suck it up for the cold. these are difficult times. thank you for that report.
madam president, commissioner, mr president of the european court of auditors, today, from this podium of the european parliament, i must extol the important contribution and the work that the european court of auditors does every day, and which contributes to the positive and proper functioning of the european union, but much more to the safeguarding of the interests of the european union and of european taxpayers. i think we are right to commend the european court of auditors. i would like to thank the president of the european court of auditors, mr barón crespo, for his work and for the work of all the staff who, with a high degree of professionalism and tireless efforts, are trying to become the shield of protection of european money. for us, our mission is to preserve and protect every last taxpayer euro, and that responsibility is made even greater with the €672.5 billion from nextgenerationeu. but at the same time i want to say to the european commission and the european council that the supervisory and audit authorities are not a cost for the european union. the european court of auditors and olaf, which are doing very important and valuable work, when they ask for reinforcements in terms of staff, logistical infrastructure, digitisation, as you rightly pointed out, mr president, and other means of combating corruption, we have to give them them spontaneously and unilaterally. because every euro we invest in the control mechanisms - in the european court of auditors, in olaf and in the other control mechanisms - is not a cost; it is an investment, because it brings multiple benefits to the european union. and the most important, and lastly, the most important role and mission of the european court of auditors is that, by its effective work, it prevents the european union's would-be corruptors from squandering european public funds.
madam president! i promise i'll make sure you don't have to use that wooden mallet. mr president of the court of auditors! in thanking the court of auditors for the presentation of its 2020 annual report, it is impossible not to acknowledge, appreciate and send a special word of thanks to all the court of auditors staff who have come to work in a very special year, because a pandemic of the scale that europe is currently experiencing occurs once every 100 years, and yet your staff have performed this task with a high standard. the court has no reservations as to the reliability of the accounts or as to the revenue of the budget of the european union, although it gives a negative opinion on the legality and regularity of the expenditure. the commission also found that the commission had not provided any information on the level of the error rate in the original investigation. in the context of the eto's proposals on the possible increase in the level of outstanding commitments in subsequent years, it should be noted that this increase should be significantly limited by ensuring an adequate level of payment appropriations in the subsequent annual budgets of the european union. the level of payments should reflect the increasing pace of implementation, especially of programmes under shared management, i.e. mainly cohesion and rural development policies.
president, the court of auditors of the eu has for the second time in a row rejected eu expenditure. in 2.7% of cases, the budget was demonstrably not well spent, which is more than the accounting rules allow. the eu's lack of control over spending is its own fault. the rules on eu subsidies are too complicated and a source of error. recommendations on this point are not followed sufficiently. now we are about to spend almost twice as much as the eu, and that means even more risk of error and fraud, also because a series of new conditions are being imposed on grants. it only makes things more complicated. we're moving in the wrong direction for containment. i urge you to make every effort to simplify the structure of legislation and regulations. i would ask the european commission to ensure that the growth of the eu budget is accompanied by an appropriate budget for the court of auditors. keep it as simple as possible!
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the president of the european court of auditors, mr klaus heiner lehne, and mr tony murphy, who are both here with us this evening. we often discuss here the whole error rate and error rate. i would like to begin by thanking the court of auditors for once again having made it very clear what the main problems are with our budget. if i look at the first area of shared management, we repeatedly encounter the problem that national authorities in certain areas and in parts of our member states are simply not reliable and that we cannot rely on them. we do this almost every year. i therefore urge the commission to create a sustainable model here. short-term task forces or short-term consulting firms simply do not help because the problems keep coming up. and when, for example, in the danube delta or in bulgaria, in the guesthouses or in some other areas, the error rate is not just 4%, but 80%, 90%, then i simply feel sick. and if this goes on forever, i'm gonna be worse. other areas, however, are working wonderfully and are working well, and that needs to be explicitly pointed out. i am also concerned about the competitiveness of small and mediumsized enterprises, some of which are overburdened by the complexity of the rules and need urgent support. start-ups, in particular, often can't afford to have complicated law firms go through all the structures that they have to fill out and get paid accordingly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. hungary's performance is outstanding in the financial period 2014-2020. by the end of 2020, we had used up nearly eur 15.5 billion from the european structural and investment funds. this is the best per capita result among the v4 countries, and with no loss of resources. eu funds have boosted hungarian gdp growth by an average of 2.6 percentage points per year. that's the best score in the region. thanks to the hungarian government's zero tolerance policy on corruption and strengthened public procurement rules, the proportion of public procurement infringements in the total number of irregularities relating to cohesion funds in hungary was 20%, compared to the eu average of 29%. my country is thus in the middle of the eu, along with germany, ireland or the benelux countries.
member of the commission. – madam president, this has really been a very interesting discussion, and let me react to a few of the observations raised. on member states’ ability to absorb and correctly implement funds from the nextgenerationeu and the eu budget, the design of the recovery and resilience facility takes into account member states’ administrative capacity. the commission has worked hand-in-hand so far with member states to prepare and ensure a rapid uptake on all funds, and this is true for the recovery and resilience national plans, as well as the shared management funds. as regards the needs to respect sound financial management of the recovery and resilience facility, it is member states’ primary responsibility to ensure this and recover amounts unduly spent. on its side, the commission performs a number of checks, controls and audits throughout the spending cycle. the rrf regulation contains legal provisions on olaf’s mandate as well as control and anti-fraud measures. we are particularly grateful for the importance that the european parliament attached to this issue during the negotiations on the rrf regulation. as regards greater use of data and it tools to fight fraud and organised crime in the implementation of the eu budget, the commission will strive in the context of the upcoming revision of the financial regulation to further develop the digitalisation of controls and audits and enhance the quality and interoperability of the data of recipients of eu funding, including with the use of it tools, such as the early detection and exclusion system and arachne. as regards the impact of the pandemic on the performance and compliance of the eu budget, the implementation of spending programmes has been significantly impacted by the covid-19 crisis, but the pandemic was really no excuse to relax our controls, on the contrary. the covid-19 crisis has slowed down the implementation of ongoing activities for many programmes. for other spending areas, however, implementation has continued at cruising speed even in the context of the covid-19 pandemic, notably due to the measures taken by the commission to support member states in facing the crisis, such as the cr2 and cr2+ packages in the case of the cohesion policy. these measures and the other flexibilities introduced at the outbreak of the pandemic were immediately accompanied by a reminder to all the services that the commission’s internal control framework remained fully applicable. allow me to conclude by thanking again president lehne and the european court of auditors for their annual report. it continues to be a key input to the discharge procedure. and thank you also to all the honourable members of this parliament for your comments and questions. our discussions, as many as you have said, contribute to the continuous improvement in the financial management of european union finances. i look forward to continuing constructive cooperation in the 2020 discharge process with the court, the european parliament and the council.
president of the court of auditors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to make it clear here - because this is an opportunity to say this in public - that the method we use to determine this error rate is a statistical method. so that means we're going to do 700 to 1,000 transactions, and we're going to look at them and test them. and it works in a very simple way, basically, like a political opinion poll. you can see the error rate later. but it's a statistical calculation. and this statistical calculation has, of course, some uncertainties. but these uncertainties can also be captured mathematically. this means that we are able to say with a 95% probability that the actual error rate is on the order of 2.7%, plus or minus 1%. this is the famous distribution bell that you've probably seen somewhere in your math class at school, if you've been doing statistics. and that's how it works. i therefore do not believe, mr freund, that the results obtained by the eppo will differ substantially from what we will determine in the context of our statistical method. i mean, you also have to point out, and this is also very important, that you say this in public: these 2.7% are not all fraud. there is certainly a certain proportion of fraud involved. as i said, we have collectively had six cases of suspected fraud in the annual report as part of the investigation we have carried out, which we have passed on to olaf. and whether all of them actually end up being fraudulent, we will only know that when the investigations are completed and the proceedings are before the courts. a lot of mistakes that happen are just stupid mistakes, yeah. where there is no intention, no intention, where the rules have simply not been properly applied. but of course this has its causes in the fact that - and this has been mentioned by many colleagues here, and we point out again in the report every year - that we have a lot of very, very, very complex and complicated regulations, particularly in the areas where we have these high error rates. i have sat in this house and in another parliament for a long time. i know how compromises are made sometimes. and these compromises are, of course, as i always say, not exactly the ideal case of clear legislation - sometimes at any rate - and of course not always the implementing rules. and then it's just that the more complex it is, the greater the risk and therefore the greater the chance of error. the second problem which i would like to mention in this context - mrs cramon-taubadel has mentioned this - is that of agricultural policy. we have seen here for some years now, every year, that we are making progress in the area of compliance, even in the area of compliance with the rules of the agricultural policy. i said earlier that 69% of these are direct grants where there are hardly any mistakes. and we see the same thing in development policy on a smaller level, in what is called budget support. that's obvious, too. if i simply have to pay a fixed lump sum to someone who has the basic requirements for this and i don't do project-specific billing, there are just fewer mistakes. but that says -- and i want to make that very clear here -- that it says nothing about performance. you can have first-class compliance where no mistakes happen at all, but where in the end the effectiveness of these measures is more than questionable. so you always have to look at both sides of this coin. in the same way, you can have a great performance, but something went wrong with compliance. for example, the infrastructure project in question had gone wrong in the tendering process and the wrong contractor had built the bridge or the airport or whatever. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that is something that we may have to keep in mind and keep in mind. i would like to confirm once again to mr chastel that digitisation is a very important issue. and once again, i very much welcome the fact that now, hopefully, steps must be taken by the commission to ensure that, by amending the financial regulation, at least compatible data is available. this is extremely important, and it is also a crucial question of efficiency, transparency and the possibility of being audited. the subject of vaccination strategy has been raised. there will be a performance report in the next few years that will address these very questions. and i would also like to express my thanks once again for the praise - mr christoforou and mr brudziński have mentioned this - for the court as a whole. i will of course pass this on to my colleagues and to the staff in this form. i think that was the point that was raised. i would like to thank you again for your attention and i hope that you will continue to have a good discussion.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the court of auditors' 2020 annual report is an essential reference point for the discharge procedure and for the oversight role we, as parliament, are called upon to play in ensuring sound financial management. the positive assessment of the reliability of the union's accounts, which faithfully present its financial situation, and the positive assessment of the legality and regularity of revenue should be welcomed, even if national controls should be strengthened to reduce the customs gap. the negative assessment of the legality and regularity of expenditure, expressed for the second consecutive year, calls instead for action to limit errors whose effects on expenditure are significant and pervasive. to this end, it is necessary in particular to increase the effectiveness of ex post controls and to simplify rules in order to reduce the impact of the complexity of the legislation on the risk of error and to enhance the capacity of member states to use the european structural and investment funds. these measures are necessary, above all, in view of the resources allocated to combating the pandemic crisis, which we must ensure are used in a timely and effective manner, free from irregularities and fraud, in the exclusive interest of european citizens.
the sitting is closed and will resume tomorrow, thursday 25 november 2021 at 9.00 with the commission statement on the international day of elimination of violence against women and the state of play on the ratification of the istanbul convention. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament website.
the president received from the council its positions at first reading and the reasons which led the council to adopt them, and the commission's positions and opinions. the full titles will be entered in the summary minutes of this meeting. the three-month deadline for parliament to act therefore starts to run from tomorrow, 26 november 2021. the commission before we proceed to the debate and before the vote today which will begin at 9.30 a.m. and during which we will vote on the decision of the empl committee to open interinstitutional negotiations on: - the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on an adequate minimum wage in the european union, therefore only one speaker in favour of the decision of the committee to open negotiations and one speaker against the decision can be received.
rapporteur. – mr president, today we have this meaningful vote because we are voting on the mandate to start negotiations with the council and the commission on decent minimum wages and strengthening collective bargaining. i speak here today also on behalf of my co-rapporteur dennis radtke. the proposals of the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) will improve the lives of millions of workers in europe. for the people who work in shops, in logistics, in cleaning and in agriculture, we can make a difference today. on the one hand, we are ensuring that statutory minimum wages must be adequate and must provide for a decent standard of living, and, on the other hand, we are strengthening the position of social partners and collective bargaining throughout europe. the directive is catering for the national traditions and labour market models all over europe. we are not imposing a statutory minimum wage on any member states. on the contrary, we have added extra safeguards for the nordic models. yesterday, in coreper, they managed to find a compromise, and today i think it’s our turn. so put a plus on the report and let’s start trilogue negotiations. it’s a plus for those people who work hard and still cannot make ends meet. so, on behalf of dennis radtke and myself, i urge you to vote in favour.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the international day for the elimination of violence against women and the progress of the ratification of the istanbul convention (2021/2979 (rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, the 25th of november was officially designated by the united nations general assembly as the international day for the elimination of violence against women, in the year 2000. today, the promises made over 20 years ago are still valid. i reaffirm the commission’s strong stance on combating all forms of violence against women and domestic violence. while marking this day remains important to continue raising awareness and mobilising all actors to take firm action, i would like to remind this house that our efforts go beyond the 25th of november, of course. together with president von der leyen and vice—president jourová, we have spoken out clearly on this matter and we have put forward a series of actions that will make a difference to women and girls across europe. in march 2020, the gender equality strategy set out ambitious actions, policy objectives and goals to strive towards a union of equality, free from all forms of violence against women and girls. as stressed in this strategy, the eu’s accession to the council of europe istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence is a key priority for this commission. the istanbul convention is a comprehensive and powerful legal instrument to prevent and combat gender—based and domestic violence and protect victims. it remains the gold standard for the work we do within the eu. the recent opinion of the european court of justice on the istanbul convention allows the council to explore the way forward. the commission remains fully supportive of the eu’s swift accession to the convention. however, as previously announced in this house, we cannot keep on running on the spot, especially since, in the light of the court’s opinion, the date of the eu’s accession to the convention is not certain. we need an eu instrument addressing violence against women and domestic violence via binding obligations on member states that are enforceable by the commission. taking the court’s opinion into consideration, we are now examining how to best take forward the announced legislative proposal. early 2022, the commission will table a directive to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence. the proposal will be comprehensive and will build on the objective of the istanbul convention ensuring that eu member states have effective measures in place to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence and support victims. but it will also address recent phenomena of violence against women, which have become so visible under covid times, such as digitally based violence or domestic violence. in december, the commission will also table a proposal to trigger a council decision to extend the list of europe crimes to include hate crime and hate speech. if this is achieved, the commission would be able to propose an eu level criminalisation of hate speech and hate crime on grounds of sex and sexual orientation, amongst other grounds. these measures will be accompanied by a set of other measures aimed at eliminating violence against women, such as a recommendation on the prevention of harmful practices and the launch of an eu network on the prevention of gender—based violence. the work on these two initiatives will start next year. both actions will focus on the importance of the pre—emptive measures and on the education of boys and girls from an early age about gender equality and non—violent relationships. moreover, the commission continues to fund organisations and projects working on the ground to eliminate violence against women and girls.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, another day dedicated to combating violence against women, and we note with sadness and disappointment that the phenomenon of gender-based violence is still widespread in the union. the hard evidence is hell. seventeen million women in the european union suffer physical or sexual abuse every year, and 3,000 die as a result of domestic violence. it's shocking. during the lockdown, incidents of violence and sexual abuse increased dramatically, and the emergence of a specific form of sexual violence on the internet is also cause for concern. we emphasize that violence is not only an extreme form of discrimination against women. it is a flagrant violation of human rights and a brutal insult to man by man. on my own initiative, as rapporteur of the legislative report on gender-based violence on the internet, i asked the commission to include online violence in the list of serious crimes under article 83 (1) of the treaty by means of a legislative proposal and to promote action in the member states both to prevent the crime and to protect the victims. when we get to the crackdown, the crime has already been committed. despite the intensity of the phenomenon, six member states have not yet ratified the istanbul convention. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, one victim every six hours in europe, every six hours. these are numbers, these are stories, that speak to each of us, speak to each of us, because each of us, directly or indirectly, has experienced that violence. regardless of our social status and religious affiliation, regardless of our living conditions, because whether physical or psychological, whether implied or blatant, as it often is, violence crosses all our lives and remains an unbearable, unbearable limit to our dignity, our freedom and, ultimately, our life. so, commissioner, mr president, we must ask ourselves today: i would like to ask the commissioner whether this emergency is at the top of the priorities of the european institutions and of this house? the answer is no, because it's not. it is enough to consider that we have not yet been able, for example, to ratify the istanbul convention, which is a minimal instrument. we should go much further, much further, and we have not been able to do that either. we are hostages to illiberal and anti-democratic governments which continue to block even the smallest measures that would be needed to protect women and not to turn this day into just another day of remembrance for the victims. it can't be just that. we need to go beyond that, we need to give those women answers. there's no more time. we don't have any time. women are killed by men, who are partners, former partners and husbands. it is not a natural disaster, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a flood, it is not an earthquake! these are crimes, which are committed by men, in the name of a specific culture called patriarchy, and which we, from here, starting from here, must overthrow and defeat.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. two years ago, the president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, as a candidate for the post, committed herself to accelerating the ratification of the istanbul convention, and it is high time that she fulfilled her promise. in this term alone, parliament has already called on the commission and the council 50 times to take action against gender-based violence, including urgently ratifying the convention. i've applied for it 21 times myself. the cjeu confirmed that this process could be completed by the council acting by a qualified majority. there are no legal obstacles, waiting for unanimity is just a political excuse. commissioner, we've talked many times here about the polish government, its violations of the rule of law, its violations of human rights, women's rights. i have been very critical of the government and condemned its anti-democratic actions from this place many times, but in 2020, this government changed the law, introduced a police order for the perpetrator of domestic violence to leave the house, enabled the immediate isolation of the perpetrator from the victim. it's concrete. what specific action has the commission taken? has she at least prepared a draft legal act? i'm going to say something that may come as a shock, but maybe it will motivate you. one would think that the pis government, at least at the legislative level, has done more in the last two years than the commission for women, victims of domestic violence. commissioner, the state's inaction in this matter is also a violation of the rule of law, the state's inaction in this matter is an authorization for further violations of human rights in relation to women. your inaction on this issue is a license for member states to ignore and attack the istanbul convention.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! we need to talk about violence and help break the silence of its victims. one in three women in the world has experienced physical, psychological, economic or sexual abuse. unfortunately, women and girls in europe also continue to experience the very specific and cruel violence of female genital mutilation, and the practice of marriage of underage girls to adult men is also taking place in the european union. i regret that this issue was not raised in the commissioner's speech or in the european commission's position. are you pretending that these heinous crimes don't exist? cyber-violence, including stalking, hate speech, and the distribution of pornographic material, is also an increasingly common form of violence. i believe that anything that's illegal offline should also be illegal online. data shows that domestic violence has increased during the pandemic, as victims have been forced to stay in lockdown with their perpetrators. last year, in my country, poland, which you're so interested in, the anti-violence law was passed. the new domestic violence rapid response procedure involves isolating the victim from the perpetrator and ordering them to leave the apartment immediately. please follow our example, let's share good practices. we may be united by cause, but we are divided by ideology.
mr president, madam commissioner, members of the house of representatives, we all agree that ending violence against women is really our common goal and task, without politics. but the istanbul convention, i have to say, after 30 years of anthropological experience, that making it binding is simply divisive, because it brings in elements driven by ideologies that are simply unacceptable to the conservative christian communities that are represented in this room. symbolically, it cannot create european unity, because it does not offer a consensus-oriented solution, but ideologically, you understand and feel that it creates a very big struggle. in 2011, we in hungary ratified the council of europe's directive on combating violence against women and domestic violence and all the provisions of the conventions on its prevention that are really about women and for women. fra's study 14 showed that 28 percent of women in hungary were victims of intimate partner violence, compared to the eu average of 33 percent. hungary is fighting to reduce violence against women. we don't believe in ratifying documents, we believe in action.
i call the first vote.
we now continue the debate on the commission statement on the international day for the elimination of violence against women and the progress of the ratification of the istanbul convention (2021/2979 (rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! it's the year 2021. gender-based violence should have been a thing of the past, but it's not. this is a common occurrence in many european homes. the accession of the union as a whole to the istanbul convention is blocked. meanwhile, the polish prime minister has referred the convention to a pseudo-tribunal. let's not kid ourselves, as soon as they get a chance to blow the whistle and find something to distract people, like they did with abortion, they'll blow the convention. we need to look for alternatives. a union directive on preventing and combating gender-based violence is necessary. the seriousness of such offences is sufficient to make them european offences. i expect the commission to put forward legislative proposals in this area. the eu institutions must act when the fundamental rights of women are not respected, when their safety is threatened. that's what the citizens of poland expect. i'll say it again and again: poland is not pis, poland is sosnowiec, where, thanks to the initiative of activists and the support of the president, we have had a women's rights rondo for a few days. this grassroots action shows how citizens feel about the government's treatment of their grandmothers, mothers, sisters and daughters. and finally, a little bit of the painful truth for you, right-handers. you are the threat to the family, not the mythical gender. you who turn a blind eye to domestic violence, attacking the provisions of the istanbul convention, which commits to introducing concrete solutions to protect victims and prevent violence. you're leading to a demographic disaster. young polish women don't want to give birth in poland. physically you're here in europe, but mentally you're closer to afghanistan and the taliban who rule there.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. ladies and gentlemen! violence against women is not a matter of nationality it is a global phenomenon and is present in all social groups, regardless of age, education, religion or social status. violence against women can take many forms and it does not matter what form it takes, because any violence against women should be effectively punished by the justice system and strongly condemned. the creation of a coherent and effective system to combat violence, not only against women but against every human being, is a task that falls to the member states. only a well-enforced law can significantly reduce the incidence of violence against anyone who comes into contact with it. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the situation of women in afghanistan, who face various forms of violence every day. has the world forgotten their suffering? these women, like all of us, deserve to live in safety and dignity. unfortunately, it's not, and there's no sign of any change, because we're doing nothing or very little.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the situation in somalia (2021/2981(rsp))*. ____________* see minutes.
the author. - madam president! - i have to go. the resolution on somalia highlights the difficult situation in the region, including the deepening humanitarian crisis, food insecurity, violence against women and children and the still unfinished electoral process. it calls for the protection of internally displaced persons and refugees, the release of journalists, the abolition of the death penalty and the establishment of an independent judiciary. with the number of people in need of immediate assistance and protection projected to increase to 7.7 million by 2022, we have put a strong emphasis on increasing humanitarian assistance. reports from the un and the somali government indicate a rapidly worsening drought that could lead to extreme conditions by next spring. already, some 2.7 million people suffer from a lack of access to safe water, sanitation, food and animal grazing. the humanitarian crisis is exacerbated by the fact that only 3% of the population is vaccinated against covid-19. the resolution draws attention to the negative impact of the pandemic on education and health. it emphasises the importance of climate change and its negative impact on the economy. we strongly condemn sexual violence against women and girls. we expect you to take precautions. we call on somali leaders to complete the process of electing a lower house by the end of this year. the increase in women's participation in elections and the election of 26% of women to the upper house were welcomed. i thank my colleagues from the other political groups for their cooperation in drafting a joint text for a resolution.
- a writer. mr president, i should not tell you that the situation in somalia is particularly worrying. the conflict is a drag on the country's stability, development and prosperity. the country is plagued by terror, violence, political instability. climate change is also taking its toll, with the resulting humanitarian catastrophe of the highest order. let me give you the numbers. 2.9 million internally displaced persons, 6 million people in need of humanitarian aid, almost 1 million children at risk of acute malnutrition! can you imagine that? i find it hallucinatory that i have to say that here on this podium. our support for that country is therefore important. listen, we've been doing a lot of things: 35% of all humanitarian aid to somalia comes from europe and the member states. but if we want to guide the country forward, we have to continue those efforts, we have to continue our aid, use that aid as a lever to bring about change. commissioner, i have a number of priorities that i would like to share with you in order to help somalia out of this enormous crisis. pushing for elections, that's where it starts. the european union calls on the member states to take all necessary measures to ensure that the rights of women are respected and that they are not discriminated against. today, i can ask you that! support the country in its fight against armed groups. security is the best guarantee of development, as we know. and finally, focus your attention on the most vulnerable: the many abused children, the many malnourished children and the many child soldiers.
author. – madam president, people in somalia suffer from political instability, terrorist activities, drought and food insecurity. 45 million people are on the edge of famine. 2.9 million people are displaced. the humanitarian situation is rapidly worsening. the extended electoral process and covid-19 have deteriorated the human rights crisis even further. for the society and democracy to start functioning, it is essential to bring the elections to a conclusion without delay. it is also disappointing that the number of women in the upper house falls short of the agreed 30% quota. without women and young people, who form a majority in somalia, rebuilding a nation is not possible. somalia also faces gender-based violence and abductions, sustained attacks on journalists and media workers. this must come to an end. we need stronger support from the eu and member states for somalia. we need to protect those that advocate for human rights and keep the authorities in check. we must strengthen our support for human rights and environmental defenders in somalia and support dialogue of civil society with the authorities. when all our instruments and support is not enough on the ground, i also call for the eu and the member states to facilitate the issuing of emergency visas and provide temporary shelter to the human rights defenders in eu member states.
author. – madam president, the economic impact of the covid-19 pandemic, seasonal floods, plant disputes and the gradual withdrawal of the african union mission, increased insecurity and instability across somalia. among the direct consequences, the humanitarian situation, and especially food security, has been deteriorating even further throughout somalia. there are now close to six million people in need of humanitarian assistance. in addition to this, the terrorist group, al-shabab has stepped up attacks, ambushes, suicide bombings, and targeted assassinations of government officials. i deeply regret al-shabab’s attacks, which deliberately disrupt the electoral process in somalia. we cannot remain neither idle nor indifferent to this deteriorating situation. the eu and the other relevant external action bodies must urgently address humanitarian access constraints in the country, as well as support the strengthening of somalia’s democracy. we should intensify our help by all possible means.
madam president, we are witnessing a very serious, almost inextricable situation in somalia, where terrorist activities, human rights violations, political instability and food insecurity are intertwined. on the one hand we have a terrorist group affiliated with al qaeda, called al-shabab, which is responsible for terrible atrocities, causing the deaths of thousands of civilians and forcibly recruiting thousands of children. and very recently, last saturday, a journalist, abdiaziz mohamud guled, was killed in a suicide bombing ordered by jihadists. on the other hand, we have very weak, corrupt regional and national authorities who have introduced abominable legislation against women and girls and who commit abuses against journalists, trade unionists and human rights activists. and all of that, that's six million people waiting for food assistance, two and a half million people on the brink of starvation and a failed state. the european union must of course continue to provide humanitarian aid and perhaps even increase it. but i believe it must also avoid the complete collapse of somalia. this requires action in favour of more stable institutions, capable of bringing together all the subnational components. what's the risk? the real risk is that we have a new afghanistan in the horn of africa. europe cannot allow this to happen. she needs to do more.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, it is true that somalia is facing a major political crisis, aggravated by the coronavirus pandemic and repeated climate shocks, which are worsening the humanitarian situation and contributing to the economic stagnation of the country. in addition, as my colleague mr maurel has said, there is the security situation in the country, particularly because of fundamentalist groups, such as those listed, such as al-shabab, but also many others who are now active there and are generating a certain amount of crime in that region. i would like to speak in particular of the 800 000 children in somalia who are now threatened by malnutrition. what we are asking for is to work on security issues, which are essential in this region, but also on humanitarian issues, which i believe are also our responsibility and duty to help these malnourished children. there is also the issue of journalists, who are particularly targeted in relation to the issue of human rights. there is no democracy without journalism and without the means to defend journalists in the region and therefore, here too, a mechanism of protection, especially for human rights defenders and journalists, must be advocated.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: somalia is facing the worst food crisis in 20 years. it's the epicenter of the crisis in this part of africa. the economic impact of covid-19, seasonal flooding, plagues of desert locusts are all contributing to the fact that the level of food insecurity is going to increase there. humanitarian operations in somalia are facing major difficulties. and yet, the international community, donors, humanitarian organizations, are doing a tremendous amount of work to come and help and support the somali people. for that, we have to thank them from here. however, it should be noted that in somalia only 20% of those in need of immediate assistance receive assistance. the political destabilisation of the country since the early 1990s has made it difficult for humanitarian aid to be delivered. the european union must therefore be a leader in the international arena in order to contribute first to stabilising the situation in the country and to allow humanitarian workers to reach those most in need with the necessary aid. somalia cannot tackle poverty and malnutrition on its own. coordinated action and multilateral cooperation are needed to save somalis from starvation and, in the long term, to rebuild infrastructure and boost economic development in the country. tomorrow in wroclaw, there's a conference i'm organizing about hunger as the greatest shame of the 21st century. and we'll talk about best practices for helping people.
madam president! i apologize for the delay, which is due to my disability. we've been wary of russian imperialism for years. russia wants to change the cold war security architecture. it does this by using, among others, the military, as in chechnya, georgia and ukraine, by cyber-interference of various trolls, by a disinformation campaign, for example in russia today, but also by proxy forces, as in belarus, or the wagner group currently being discussed. it's a hybrid campaign. the wagner group is a private military institution that has intervened in ukraine, in libya, in africa. is it only the threat of intervention by this group in mali, in the sahel, that has caused a certain sobering up, that we are wondering how to stop it? we need to appeal, put pressure on russia to stop the logistical, financial, political support. we also need to support ukraine in its efforts to bring the wagner group to justice.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the current challenges of congestion in international seaports and the increase in transport costs affecting the european union require global action in view of the global nature of maritime transport. the adoption of binding regional measures may have the opposite effect and exacerbate the current disadvantageous situation. among the solutions proposed requiring the involvement of the european union at international level are: the establishment of an international system for the exchange of information on the situation on shipping lanes and congestion in key seaports, as well as the identification of alternative ports for cargo handling, the development of global solutions for port operations, the designation of transport workers, seafarers, port workers, logistics operators as key workers and thus enabling them to function in the event of restrictions imposed to counter the pandemic, and finally making maritime-related professions more attractive. the experience gained should now be a valuable input to the european commission's contingency plan for freight transport in the european union.
on behalf of the the left group. – mr president, i welcome the debate on congestion at international ports and increased transport costs affecting the eu. this debate has particular relevance in my own country of ireland. as an island nation where, pre—brexit, much of our exports had gone via britain to the continent. it is important we continue to develop transport links between the island of ireland and europe. increasing port traffic to and from ireland, whilst important, needs to be complemented with increased access to these ports from across our island. this means investment in key infrastructures such as rail. such investments should aim to increase freight and passenger services all across our island. indeed, it is time for the irish government to act and re-open ireland’s western rail corridor. the reopening of the western rail corridor would not only be an investment which tackles regional imbalance, but it would also be an investment in sustainable transport and assist our efforts to reduce carbon emissions. the rail line would provide a link from the west and northwest of ireland to the deep-water ports of foynes and waterford, providing a significant opportunity for economic development and helping to reverse the decline of our region. it would not only benefit our all—ireland economy and communities, but our environment as well.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this debate, and i will pass on your comments to commissioner vălean. the commission, within the realm of its powers and competences, is willing to address your concerns about the functioning of the market, ensuring europe’s competitiveness, and the proper functioning of the maritime supply chain. currently, it would seem that regulation and market intervention would not usefully substitute market mechanisms and sorting out congestion problems and logistic chains, and imbalances between demand and supply. however, in markets that are heavily intertwined, common shared actions, would appear as the most appropriate responses. fighting congestion on both the sea side and land side would in particular appear relevant.
the debate is closed. the meeting will be suspended for a few minutes. it will resume at 4 p.m. with the announcement of the results of the second round of voting today. (the sitting was suspended at 3.48 p.m.)
the minutes of the 22-25 november part-sessions shall be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next part-session. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at these meetings to the persons and bodies named in them.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 25 november 2021.
as we open our plenary session here in strasbourg, our thoughts go out to the victims of the terrorist attack of 11 december 2018 that struck the heart of the city. we remember the five people who lost their lives with respect and sadness, and our solidarity goes out to all the other victims, to the families, to the city of strasbourg and to the french people. more than ever, we must defend the values and freedoms that are the foundation of our pluralistic, diverse and inclusive society. this is perhaps our most heartfelt tribute. i suggest you all observe a minute of silence. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
the minutes and approved texts of the meetings of 22, 23, 24 and 25 november 2021 have been distributed. are there any comments? (the minutes of previous sittings are approved)
following the appointment of mr johan danielsson as minister for housing and deputy minister for labour in the swedish government, parliament takes note of the vacancy in his seat as from 30 november 2021, in accordance with the rules of procedure. following the resignation of ms evelyne gebhardt, parliament takes note of the vacancy of her seat as from 2 february 2022, in accordance with the rules of procedure, and informs the national authority concerned accordingly. the competent authorities of germany have informed me that mr karsten lucke has been elected as a member of the european parliament to replace mr norbert neuser as from 11 january 2022. i welcome the new member and remind him that he has full rights to sit in parliament and its bodies under the conditions laid down in the rules of procedure.
the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the principle of proportionality. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom, the united kingdom and the united kingdom on the application of the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to the european parliament, the council and the commission.
the s&d, renew europe and id groups have informed me of some decisions to amend the appointments to committees and delegations. these decisions will be entered in the minutes of today's sitting and will come into force as from this announcement.
several committees have decided to open interinstitutional negotiations under article 71 of the regulation. the reports, which constitute the mandates for these negotiations, are available on the plenary website and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. a number of members or one or more political groups equal to at least the average threshold may request in writing, by midnight tomorrow, tuesday 14 december, that decisions on the opening of negotiations be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in the house is received within the said time limit, the committees may enter into negotiations.
i would like to inform the house that since the end of the session on 25 november i have signed, in accordance with rule 79 of parliament's rules of procedure, together with the president of the council, three acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. i would also like to inform the house that on wednesday i will be signing, together with the president of the council, six acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. the titles of these documents will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 157 of the rules of procedure, at its meeting on wednesday 8 december 2021, was distributed. i should like to inform you that i have received a request for the urgent procedure under rule 163 concerning the following legislative dossier, concerning the transitional provisions for certain in vitro diagnostic medical devices and the deferred application of the prescriptions for in-house manufactured devices. this request will be voted on today. under the rules of procedure, only the person making the request and a speaker opposing it, and the chairman or rapporteur of the committee responsible, may be heard. does anyone in the house wish to comment on the request for urgent procedure? there's no one there. i would also like to inform the house that no proposals have been tabled to reject the council's position on mr wölken's recommendation for second reading on the evaluation of health technologies, nor have amendments been tabled under articles 67 and 68. the vote on the amendments to the recommendation, scheduled for tomorrow's vote on tuesday, is therefore no longer necessary. i should like to inform you that the votes have been distributed in several rounds, taking account of the number of amendments tabled and the number of requests for votes on separate and distinct parts. this distribution may, however, be subject to change. information on the distribution of votes in different rounds is available on parliament's website under the heading 'priority information and documents'. the agenda is therefore approved. i should like to inform the house that i have received a request for a procedural motion and i shall give the floor to mr joachim kuhs.
we will take the appropriate decisions, of course, as we have always done, following the advice of the health authorities.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the president on the 30th anniversary of the dissolution of the soviet union and its importance for the future of russia and europe (2021/2995 (rsp)). ladies and gentlemen, to start this debate, we must go back 30 years. the collapse of the soviet union was a process rather than an event, and yet it was unimaginable to many. the long period of the cold war is over and many of the former soviet union member states are now members of the european union. the transition to democracy takes years, as does the creation of new institutions, new procedures and the change of habits and mindsets. our relations with russia are at an all-time low, however, and the current crisis on our eastern border does not bode well. i believe it is our duty not to give up european values and to support the russian people in their desire to transform their country. democracy is very difficult to build, but it is also easy to lose if we don't take care of it. the nature of democracy is essentially based on trust, the trust of citizens in their institutions. this trust must be renewed every day, grown like capital and cared for like the best investment.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today is the 40th anniversary of martial law. the suffering and struggle of the poles is also responsible for the changes in europe. i pay tribute to all of them from this chamber. 30 years ago, the leaders of russia, belarus and ukraine signed an act to dissolve the soviet union, a state that throughout its history persecuted people within its borders, but also those outside, subordinate to it. events such as operation poland, katyn, the holodomor were marked by genocide. modern russia has invaded ukraine, georgia, supported a dictator who turned against his own people in belarus. in the spirit of the first solidarity congress, and its message to the peoples of eastern europe, i wish ukrainians a peaceful life in a sovereign, integral state, belarusians to get rid of the dictator and shape the state as they want, and russians to a democratic statehood that clearly breaks away from the legacy of stalinism and stops external aggression.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not this december marks the 30th anniversary of the end of the soviet union. it is time to take a different look at european history and the lessons it can teach us for the present. i am sorry to say, however, that in the light of the debate so far, some of my colleagues are not interested in differentiation but in taking sides. once again history is being used to discredit the aspirations of a society free of capitalism and fascism, and to further the confrontation with today's russia, or simply to tell nonsense, as my colleague from the idf group has just done. yes, there was in the soviet union - a product of stalinism - the absolute domination of a state and party bureaucracy that had distanced itself from the ideals of the workers' movement, suppressed all opposition and persecuted millions of people. but a movement which has placed the liberation of man from exploitation and oppression at the centre of its policies, and which is equating it with fascism, which was and is aimed at destruction, inequality and lack of freedom, as has happened here today, is simply absurd. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. the european parliament must not be silent about the enormous toll of blood, the 27 million lives paid by the peoples of the soviet union in the second world war. and when we talk about european history, we must not forget the cold war. and it is all the more incomprehensible today that its mistakes are being repeated even after the dissolution of the warsaw pact. the expansion of nato eastwards to russia's western border, although ruled out by then german foreign minister hans-dietrich genscher, has violated russia's security interests. further expansion could lead to another catastrophe. the constant saber-rattling of the warriors at nato headquarters in brussels, the repeated threats of sanctions by the commission and the council, are exacerbating this confrontation. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is not the only one to be attacked. thus, criticism of the policies of the putin government, however wrong the russian authorities' actions against the human rights organization memorial, are justified: a new cold war on european soil is not helping anyone. what is needed instead is a new european policy of détente. and that goes for both sides. nato must stop its provocations against russia, just as russia must guarantee the peaceful development of its neighbours. the means to do this are diplomacy and dialogue. let's use it.
mr president, 30 years after the overthrow of socialism in the soviet union, anti-communism and the persecution of communists are on the rise. that's a sign of weakness, not strength. you're trying to shield the exploitative system you serve. your promises of peace and prosperity under capitalism have been shattered. competition, wars, interventions are killing and uprooting peoples. your bankrupt system is draining the working people, creating unemployment and poverty, homeless people looking in the garbage. in the soviet union, unemployment was a foreign word. there they didn't die waiting for a hospital bed to empty or for oxygen to be found because there were no health groups to cash in on human suffering, on the need for a vaccine. there were no millions left without insurance, no pensioners without work, no child without a nursery, education was conquered. socialism is the one that crushed fascism and the one that solved for decades the biggest, most pressing problems that plague billions of people in capitalism. that is why, whatever the mechanisms of the system may do, it remains the future and the only real way out for the people.
of course, parliament will always be attentive to the reasons of dissidents, of the opposition in the russian federation, of those who are fighting for freedom in that country. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the collapse of the soviet union in 1991 was of historic significance for europe and for us hungarians. we must never forget the dark era of the soviet union, which destroyed the lives of millions of people, including tens of thousands of hungarians. the greatest tragedy of the transcarpathian hungarian community, the so-called malenkij robot, when the occupying communist power deported nearly 30,000 people to forced labor, they became victims of stalin's dictatorship because of their nationality or belonging. in autumn 1944, the occupying soviet army rounded up all hungarian and german men between 18 and 55 years of age and drove them on foot to szolyvá. cold, hunger, and the cruel treatment of soviet soldiers caused many to die on the way to the concentration camps. those who survived were hauled in cattle cars to remote labor camps. although people were told they would only be taken for three days of restoration work, we now know that the "little work" was forced labor for many years, and many never returned home to their families. those who returned were shrouded in silence, their lives marked by captivity, humiliation, forced labor, the horrors they experienced. sadly, neither the victims nor their relatives have been compensated, nor have they been asked to apologize for the suffering they have endured. it is important that we remember those who lost their lives due to the cruelty of the soviet totalitarian dictatorship. we must do everything we can to rehabilitate the victims of communism and prevent such a thing from happening again!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am particularly honoured that my initiative and that of my political group to combat gender-based violence and online violence is voted on today at the last plenary session of the european parliament this year. gender-based violence, both online and offline, is deeply rooted in the structural inequalities in our society. it is still silent and constitutes one of the most serious violations of human rights. the situation is further exacerbated by gender bias, gender stereotypes and the continued manifestation of historically unequal power relations. in today's digital age, the internet and new technologies are rapidly creating new digital social spaces and have fundamentally changed the way people meet, communicate, interact, socialize and, in fact, coexist. forms of gender-based violence, facilitated by the internet and new technologies, are becoming more and more common. however, online violence is not a new form of violence, but a continuation of the offline phenomenon. it has a profound impact on the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals, on their dignity and lives at all levels. in our time, online violence is emerging as one of the main forms of violence against women, with increasing rates across the european union that should concern us. in particular, around 7% of women in the union have experienced cyber-harassment in the last 12 months and one in 10 women up to the age of 15 years, while this form of violence appears to be more prevalent among younger internet users, with one in five young women in the european union aged 18 to 29 reporting online sexual harassment. at the same time, during the two years of the pandemic, the widespread confinement to the lockdown homes has resulted in an increase in internet use, especially by girls and young women, resulting in a dramatic increase in this heinous crime, across all the member states of the european union, but also around the world. the internet delineates a wide range of emerging forms of violence, ranging from the posting of offensive comments and images, blatant privacy violations, hate speech, to intimidation with threats and sexual abuse, punishable by the criminal codes of all countries. because legislation is always moving slower than technology, but mostly tracks the evolution of life, it is important that we take the steps now that will allow us to shield the rights of victims of online violence from future criminal acts. in this context, the legislative initiative we are being asked to vote on today aims to tackle the increasing phenomenon of gender-based violence online. it takes a holistic approach to criminalising certain behaviours, but also to supporting and protecting the victims of those behaviours. we call on the commission to adopt immediately, by means of a directive, minimum rules on the definition of the crime of violence online and to include online violence in the list of serious crimes, using as a legal basis article 23 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it also called on the commission to promote actions to prevent this crime and measures to protect and rehabilitate victims. as regards prevention, we are particularly focusing on education, especially during the teenage years, on raising awareness through information campaigns and, of course, on promoting healthy role models, because with this legislative proposal we aim to eliminate gender stereotypes and to promote research, if it is understood in depth that the root cause of all forms of gender violence is inequality and the sick attitudes that have been maintained for years. in addition, in order to protect and support victims of gender-based violence online, the report includes actions to protect and support victims, with particular emphasis on the need to improve and facilitate reporting and to avoid secondary victimisation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful organisms and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms. violence as a behaviour is found in modern democratic countries because of unacceptable perceptions that are not in line with the rule of law. in particular, violence against girls and women in any form, as an exercise of power, is a brutal attack on fundamental rights, the european ideal and every human value, which is why zero tolerance is self-evident and unilateral. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i think we all agree that the achievement of the elimination of gender-based violence will be for the principles of the european union and for european citizens the hallmark of european civilization.
rapporteur. – mr president, i quote: ‘it’s a pity your mother did not have an abortion. seriously. poland would be more beautiful without such a parasite.’; ‘you should be shaved bald, you disgusting creature.’; ‘a slut betrays her country, don’t you agree with me? because i think it’s a pity that the polish underground state does not exist today. you would be treated accordingly.’; ‘you won’t cheat your genes, you red pest, but at least you won’t have offspring and, if i ever meet you, i will spit on your face with pleasure.’; ‘i regret that they do not hang for betraying one’s country these days’. these are just examples, quotes, of cyberviolence that i receive on social media platforms every day – and i’ve chosen the more delicate ones so as not to offend you, my colleagues, the president and the commissioner – and i am obviously not the only one. fifty—two percent of women and girls have experienced cyberviolence solely since the covid—19 pandemic started. the numbers are even higher among female politicians, activists, journalists and all other women who participate, or try to participate, in online public debate. gender—based cyberviolence is a challenge posed by modernity, but it is at the same time just a new face of an old, well—known enemy: violence against women. in the 21st century in the european union, gender—based violence is manifesting every day and everywhere. women cannot feel safe at home, women cannot feel safe in public places and women cannot feel safe on the internet. the root causes of gender—based violence in all its forms are the same. these root causes make the cyberviolence that women face very specific and different from the one faced by men: sexist hate speech focused on appearance or private and intimate life, image—based sexual abuse, cyberstalking by a former partner, threats of sexual violence, including rape. these are just examples of gender—based cyberviolence, which make women withdraw from digital, political and social life. it is not only about personal impact, it’s about the quality of our democracy. we simply allow women to be silenced, we allow them to be excluded from public debate. i have seen the cyber dimension of gender—based violence evolving. as a lawyer, activist and women’s rights defender, i’ve been engaged in combating gender—based violence for over 20 years now. firstly in ngos, then in public administration, later as the deputy commissioner for human rights in poland and, currently, as a member of the european parliament, i’ve always been standing on the side of women and other victims of gender—based violence. this is why i’ve been honoured to work on the legislative initiative report on gender—based cyberviolence as its co—rapporteur, and i am proud to present it to all of you today. it includes recommendations for measures to be adopted in the areas of prevention, protection, support, reparation of victims, prosecution and criminalisation, as well as data collection and reporting. it stresses that all actions should be victim—centred and have an intersectional approach. moreover, with regard to personal scope, it covers not only women and girls, but also lgbtqi people, who experience cyberviolence on the basis of their gender identity, gender expression and sex characteristics. this report should be a very strong message from the european parliament to the commission, emphasising yet again that we do not agree with the commission’s failure to act against gender—based violence and that we demand specific action. the legislative measures recommended in this report should be included in a comprehensive directive against gender—based violence in all its forms, including cyberviolence. the more precise we make it, the better. it’s about the law, it’s about human rights, it’s about democracy. we need to guarantee that every woman is safe from violence. i would like to thank my co-rapporteur, ms vozemberg—vrionidi, for the collaboration, the greens advisers and, last but not least, my team, for their work on the report. to conclude, i would like to address all haters with the words of maria peszek from the song ‘like a gun’: ‘words can hurt, words can kill’. remember, you are responsible for what you are doing.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. today, exactly 30 years after the collapse of the soviet union, we are talking in the european parliament about gender-based violence. these themes were brutally intertwined after the war, in my home upper silesia. in 1945, when the war was ending for many of those liberated from the camps, for thousands of silesian women hell was beginning: silesian women raped, mutilated, killed by soviet soldiers. the memory of those victims commits us today to work to end gender-based violence. to keep everyone safe, whether the violence is happening in person or online. we have tools to keep young women safe, especially young women, because they are the most vulnerable to cyberbullying. the internet cannot be the digital wild west, a space without law. i thank the rapporteurs for this project, particularly in their strong support for the call by the european commission and the member states to recognise misogyny as a form of hate speech. it's time for safety, equality and mutual respect. and proper sex education, but that's a topic for another discussion.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. we all agree that we must effectively tackle the inequalities between women and men in both social and professional life. let's look at the gap in pay inequality, which has been getting smaller lately, but it's still there. discrimination against women in pay is one of the most serious obstacles to effective gender equality. the elimination of these disparities is a task which should be a priority for the member states. similarly, in the employment sector, there is a significant gender gap in unemployment during the covid-19 pandemic. ladies and gentlemen! reducing the disparities i have mentioned can have a real impact on equality between women and men in the european union. but the question is whether the issues that the report addresses, such as lgbt rights, legal abortion, reproductive and sexual health rights, will lead to women earning the same as men or to full parity in the positions they hold. i don't think so, personally. and i ask you, commissioner, please don't fight christmas, because it's absurd and nonsense. please fight for equal pay for equal work for men and women.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. sir, send a reporter to the station! i share the view that the standardisation of tools, data sources and hta methodologies should be promoted and that unnecessary duplication of work should be avoided. i am in favour of an hta where the results of the joint clinical assessment report are duly taken into account but not mandatory. the other initiatives on hta i would call better action today. nevertheless, as the saying goes, sometimes the best is the enemy of the good. additional solutions may be potential obstacles and difficulties in the context of the organisation of the healthcare systems of the member states, in particular with regard to the decision on the level of reimbursement of medicines, but may also lead to discrepancies between national and union data. i believe that a compromise between the better and the current good would be to develop a common position in the context of the expected level of work and to establish common standards for assessment methods. the evaluation should be left to the national level. nevertheless, i appreciate the work of the rapporteur, thank you very much for it, and although we sometimes disagree, i really respect your commitment.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. madam vice president! ladies and gentlemen! the digital market act is intended to restore fair rules and competition in the european digital marketplace. we are bound by the treaty on the functioning of the european union, bound by the violations committed by the internet giants to the detriment of european citizens and businesses. the new responsibilities for the largest so-called access gatekeepers, indispensable in business-to-consumer online relationships, are based on court cases. we replace individual lawsuits with evidence of violations of the law that is enforced on a daily basis and affects everyone. for the dma to be effective, and not just ambitious on paper, it has to focus on the big guys. it is also good that the majority in the committees supported my proposal to exclude small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of interoperability, i.e. the interplay of the same services between different companies for the purposes of social media communications, as we now have for telephone calls, sms and e-mails. but we need secure interoperability, and that's where the line needs to be drawn between cybersecurity and privacy. the ability to interact with users from different platforms will reduce costs and time, while encouraging security guards to go beyond competition in terms of network effect or number of users, to compete for example on lower prices, functionality, confidentiality or reliability. as the epp co-rapporteur, regardless of the outcome of the vote, i congratulate mr schwab on a good compromise. in voting on the amendments, let us ensure equal treatment for european companies and platforms open to european companies.
madam president! we have seen a strong year-on-year increase in the interest in trade and services in the digital single market. this fact, while obviously beneficial to all concerned, also carries a number of risks. competitive and equitable access for businesses to customers is the cornerstone of the modern digital economy. users expect reliable and efficient online tools, while also expecting a service that is best suited to their needs, rather than the model that best suits the dominant online platforms. the implementation of the digital markets act will provide users with a fair and predictable environment for the digital economy and will promote growth and competitiveness by introducing common rules in the single market. it is important to remember that the proper definition of the responsibilities of the platforms acting as access gatekeepers will be crucial. in this respect, the agreement reached provides protection against unfair practices in the area of digital services regulated by the digital markets act.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! as a former minister of digitalization in poland, i wanted to emphasize very strongly that this is a very important moment and a very important step towards building a european digital single market. and i'm glad that these two complementary acts, the dma and the dca, we're going to be able to proceed with this agreement. this particular act, this regulation, is aimed at the biggest players and the biggest digital players. i think the economic thresholds are set adequately. what's important is the closed catalogue of services, what's important is the very strong fine tool that we can use in cases of unfair practices and avoidance of duty. the dma is also a measure that allows european operators, namely small and medium-sized enterprises, to develop. i think we need to support this process. and as a counter-rapporteur, as the person who worked on this document, i wanted to thank all the other rapporteurs for their work together, and the rapporteur for the final interviews.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the proposed act establishing 2022 as the european year of youth seems to be a valuable initiative, but today's ideologisation between the commission and the european parliament raises questions. will the proposed programmes reflect the traditional values of our civilisation: christian, national or family values which positively shape the personality of young people, or will it be leftist indoctrination which is so dominant in eu politics? will this project be used to impose a leftist worldview on young people? wouldn't this be an offense against traditional values, against parents who have the right to raise their children according to their own worldview, according to their own beliefs? during the communist era in poland and other central european countries, efforts were made to ideologise children, to imbue them with communist propaganda. and today, in our schools, our children are being taught an ideology no better than the bolsheviks. i hope this isn't the way to create a new man. it used to be homo sovieticus, the soviet man, it will be homo europeus, the european man. let's defend the right of our youth to learn without leftist indoctrination.
mr. chairman, please! the pandemic has deprived young people of many opportunities to meet friends, meet new people, or experience and explore new cultures. we cannot make up for lost time, but we are proposing today to declare 2022 the european year of youth. the aim is to listen to and engage young people and to propose concrete opportunities for young people. we also need to bridge the generation gap. young people today are less interested in traditional forms of participation, but they are actively standing up for what they believe in. we are committed to listening to their voices, as we are doing now at the conference on the future of europe. we want to work together to shape the future of the european union, taking into account the aspirations of our young people. the european year of youth should lead to a change in the way we involve young people in policy-making, decision-making on climate, social affairs and digital human development. young people must be at the heart of our policies and political priorities. i hope that with joint action at european and national level and a budget of €8 million for this purpose, the year will be a success. as a father of three, i am convinced that we must empower young people, because their diversity, courage and boldness are essential for our future as europeans.
mr. chairman, please! the european youth year 2022 is an opportunity to combat the negative impact of the pandemic crisis, which has hit european youth very hard. the economic slowdown has affected the job opportunities of young people. long-term isolation, distance learning have left their mark on all levels of education. the pandemic has hit especially young people who are not in education, employment or school. young people from the most vulnerable groups suffer particularly, and youth unemployment and poverty are on the rise. we must invest in young people and fight for their inclusion in the labour market. action for young people in particularly difficult situations, such as young people with disabilities, young people from rural families, young people from large families, should also be a priority. therefore, initiatives under this year should lead to a visible improvement in the situation of european youth.
madam president! señor borrell and all the useful idiots! we're back to the debate about russian imperialism, and the conflict has been going on for eight years. we respond to any russian escalation with a call for dialogue, forgetting that russia is the creator of the problems, not the solution. russia is creating these problems and is waiting for dialogue to get further concessions from us, not to reach a compromise between us. he blocks all peace initiatives in ukraine. or when we start to reckon with russia instead of compensating it? i would like to ask our german colleagues and the new government in berlin: will only russian interests continue to be taken into account, as mr heugen, mrs merkel's adviser, once mentioned? will the arms embargo, including the arms embargo, continue to apply to ukraine? will the process of rapid rapprochement between the union and ukraine continue to be blocked until eu membership? will germany take a hard line in the normandy and minsk formats? will france, which will soon take over the presidency, also use the presidency to ensure that the normandy and minsk formats are put into effect? will this continue to be the reset policy? there is no definition of punishment and sanctions. the full list of these punishments and sanctions was discussed here today, in this room. we have a deficit of will to apply these sanctions and penalties, so let's act, i urge you, not to meet in a month or two for another helpless debate. i would like to wish all ukrainians living in the occupied and annexed territories a merry christmas and a happy new year!
ladies and gentlemen, the house of lords! putin has attacked ukraine twice in the last two years. there's a third attack coming, and it's a real threat. it's blackmail against ukraine, but it's also blackmail against europe. he wants to be important, he wants to be called, he wants to be talked to. this is not the way, mr. putin. europe must be strong and united, it must act together and actively respond immediately with sanctions, a package of sanctions that will be economically painful. we also need to actively help ukraine, because ukraine needs economic help, and also a modern army. we should guarantee her that. the eastern partnership, moldova and georgia also require our immediate support. we must be united and all those who deny and oppose this are putin's henchmen. and lies like the one we just heard, we have to respond to with force. all of putin's friends are agents of the kremlin. we have to be clear about this and we have to marginalize them as far as our community is concerned. you have no right to call yourselves patriots. you act against the national interest of your own societies, because your societies want to be safe, they want energy security, they want financial security. and finally, if you are a friend of putin, you are an enemy of europe, an enemy of your own citizens.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in recent weeks, hundreds of thousands of russian troops have been mobilized on ukraine's eastern border. this is not the first provocation, but it does bring up disturbing memories. almost eight years ago, a similar escalation ended with the illegal and unlawful annexation of the crimean peninsula. under the helsinki accords, countries have the right to self-determination, and conflicts over borders should be resolved through diplomacy. nevertheless, russia has not hesitated to violate the sovereignty of other countries and change borders by military force in the past, and it seems that they are now willing to do so again. the action is an attack on the helsinki agreement, and it is contrary to the european security order. the ukrainian people must know that we in europe stand by them, that we stand by their right to self-determination and by the agreements and principles on which we have built a peaceful and democratic europe.
madam president! during the european union's huge border crisis with belarus, for which putin is certainly partly responsible, russia has amassed over 100,000 troops on the border with ukraine, the most since the soviet invasion of afghanistan, while stepping up its hybrid warfare tactics and disinformation campaign. therefore, the fears of a potential second invasion of ukraine seem more than justified. no one can doubt that the current russian regime is threatening peace and security throughout europe by once again seeking to change borders and take away sovereignty from more countries. in this context, it is clear how wrong some european countries were to adopt a policy of appeasement, with germany at the head, and allow putin to build the nord stream 2 pipeline, significantly increasing europe's dependence on russian gas. i believe that russia's demands for a euro-atlantic future for ukraine and its energy blackmail of the european union and its partner countries are unacceptable. ukraine cannot be treated as a bargaining chip in putin's political game. that is why i am calling for consideration of a significant tightening of sanctions, including the previously proposed exclusion of russia from swift.
madam president, president putin is promising not to invade ukraine if we promise that ukraine will never be admitted to nato. but president putin, we were at the same nato summit in bucharest in 2008 at which we, nato, did not grant ukraine a membership action plan, and we have actually stuck to our decision. whereas you, president putin, have since then, invaded georgia, invaded crimea, invaded donbas, shot down mh17 and deployed iskandar missiles into the kaliningrad oblast. before that, you broke the budapest memorandum of 1994, which promised ukraine independence and inviolability of borders in return for ukraine’s nuclear arsenal. mr putin, your invasion manifesto of july this year is based on a lie. russian speakers in ukraine are not russian, and if you don’t believe me, ask irish members of this house whether they want to be ruled from london again just because they speak english. if you invade again, your kleptocratic regime might come unstuck, and i know for sure if you invade again, the solidarity of this house should not be with the invaders, but with the invaded, with the victims, and that victims of aggression deserve our help in defending themselves.
madam president! the european union has a common (and unquestionable) view that state sovereignty, the inviolability of borders and the non-agreement to change borders by force are the basis for security in europe and the world. hence the clear position on the sovereignty of ukraine and its territory. we note with grave concern the increase in tensions between ukraine and russia and the build-up of military capabilities on the border. we are committed to the idea that political dialogue is the only way to find a lasting solution to the current crisis. any suggestion by russia that it might use force to resolve the current crisis should be met with our firm opposition. but if an attack were to occur, russia would face an unprecedented response in the form of economic and political sanctions. any aggression can't be of any benefit to the aggressor.
madam president! the next weeks and months will be a great test for the two great world projects: for what the european union is and what nato is. is it a force, a player in the global market, in international politics, or a collection - i don't want to say a bundle - of different interests that are played out by the blackmailer? aggression against ukraine is also aggression on the polish-belarusian border, it is putin's joint projects to complete the construction of nord stream 2 and to feed himself with billions of euros to pursue his imperialist policy, as well as putin's policy that is to lead to the destabilization of the european union and nato. unity, strength, consequences, not self-interest. this gives us a chance to say no.
rapporteur. – madam president, the world does not come to rest: afghanistan, civil war in ethiopia, hunger as a result of climate change in madagascar, hunger and violent conflicts in the sahel, military escalations in yemen, displacement in the midst of a pandemic, to name just a few. the report on new orientation for the eu’s humanitarian action comes at a time when crises are being exacerbated, and when the number of people suffering from humanitarian crises has increased from around 90 million in 2015 to nearly 240 million this year. its aim is not to suggest tailormade solutions to the crises we face to date, but to provide policy recommendations that mitigate the crises in general. following the communication the commission published in march this year, the eu’s humanitarian action, the report underlines the four fundamental principles of humanitarian action: that is humanity, impartiality, neutrality and independence. they are the core of humanitarian action and must not be compromised. some challenges: we are alarmed at the number of serious violations of international humanitarian law. we therefore need close monitoring of violations. responsible individuals or entities have to be listed in relevant eu sanction regimes. gender—based violence is another serious aspect: 70% of women become victims of gender—based violence and conflicts and disasters. given the number of people in need is rising, the humanitarian budget needs to rise as well. the european member states should spend a fixed share of their gni on humanitarian aid, and we call on the commission to report on the disbursement. the humanitarian—development—peace nexus should become the general approach of programming in order to bridge the gaps between the policy areas, while the distinct character and principles of humanitarian aid have to be respected. so far, a few words on the report. i feel honoured and i’m thankful that i was the standing rapporteur for humanitarian aid and had the opportunity to be the rapporteur on this important fight. this is my last report and my last speech in the european parliament. i would like to use my speech today in the plenary to say goodbye and farewell to all of you. i was always fascinated by development cooperation. i started in the 80s in nicaragua with the solidarity group when this country was on a really good path. when i became a member in 2009, from the beginning i was in the committee on development (deve) and committed to the values. and i was on the delegation to the acp and for me it was my environment that allows me to work on policies that construct a better future for the people in partner countries. during my mandate, the contact with people in partner countries remained very important to me. what i learned from them inspired me and gave me strength for the work in parliament. this is why i want to thank you for all your cooperation and support during the last years. i thank you, commissioner janez lenarčič, for the close and trustful cooperation directly between us two, even last year and the one before at christmas. i want to thank commissioner jutta urpilainen for a fantastic input from the development side. i thank you, colleagues, for the balanced and good cooperation that we generally have in the committee on development, but also in the delegation to the acp. i thank my colleagues from the s&d family, from the german spd delegation, and especially i would like to mention my coordinator, udo bullmann, and thank him and his prudent management of our working group and, udo, the continuous support you gave. a big thank you goes to the deve secretariat and i would like to mention, because he was very much involved in this report, manuel manrique gil, who also supported me in a number of other important files. thanks to the s&d team and the longstanding support i had and to my own team. my work in the european parliament comes to an end, and it was a good time. i have heard that there is a life outside parliament and i will work more actively for my foundation, kick for help, with sports and especially football projects. in developing countries, the foundation helps youth, girls and women to develop team spirit, fair play and self—determination. it was nelson mandela who said – and this is how i want to conclude – that sport has the power to change the world. let’s use this wonderful opportunity more in our developing cooperation. let’s just do it! thank you very much.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, i want to thank the european parliament, the committee on development, and in particular, the rapporteur, honourable norbert neuser, for putting this topic on today’s agenda. the report highlights key priorities for eu humanitarian action going forward. the text recognises our ambitions for the european union as a global power in aid delivery. in short, it shares our common vision for the future. in view of recent worrying trends, this is also a very timely report. according to the latest global humanitarian overview, nearly 274 million people are now in urgent need of humanitarian aid. at the beginning of this year, the number was 235 million. meanwhile, the donor base remains far too narrow. a small number of donors provide the overwhelming bulk of humanitarian aid. that is the case globally, but also within the european union, and the gap between existing needs and the available resources is growing ever further. more needs to be done to address this funding gap and to support those in need. this is why the european commission adopted a communication on eu humanitarian action earlier this year. that communication is there to keep adapting, rethinking and improving our approach for the eu to stay at the forefront of global humanitarian action in the interest of the most vulnerable people that we want to help. honourable members, i am pleased to confirm that we are already taking concrete steps to address many of the priorities that feature in this report. first, the commission is pushing to expand the resource base both within and outside the european union. of course this requires a sustained effort over time within europe and internationally, and it goes without saying that this house, this parliament, can be of great help. we are currently engaging within the european union with like-minded and non-traditional humanitarian donors, to grow the overall pool of humanitarian resources available. in the meantime, we will continue working to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of humanitarian aid by embracing innovative digital tools and by resorting more to anticipatory funds. in line with the grand bargain commitments, the commission is also focusing on the quality of funding. we know that it must be more predictable. we know that it must be more flexible and better suited to local needs so as to provide the greatest possible impact for people in need. we are working on this. we have just launched new multiannual pilot programmatic partnerships with the international federation of red cross and red crescent societies, with unicef and with the fao. these come next to the full programmatic partnerships that we already have in place with ngos since last year. second, to ensure that our aid is delivered swiftly the commission is developing a new european humanitarian response capacity. this will address potential gaps whenever traditional channels are unavailable, and it will be built on the example of the eu humanitarian airbridge by embracing a team europe approach. the report also emphasises the importance of international humanitarian law, and this brings me to my third point. we are putting compliance with international humanitarian law at the heart of the eu’s external action. for example, the commission is setting up a new eu-level coordination mechanism. our goal is to improve reporting on possible violations around the world and strengthen compliance. we are also advocating for the consistent inclusion of humanitarian exceptions in eu sanctions regimes. the eu is committed to avoiding any negative impact of restrictive measures on vulnerable people. in parallel, the european union is calling for unrestricted and unimpeded humanitarian access to people in need. we have done so, for example in the cases of afghanistan, ethiopia and myanmar. the commission is also pressing forward with the fourth strand of work – the localisation of humanitarian aid. we plan to engage even more with local actors, including women-led groups, to improve their own-preparedness, response and resilience. in the face of climate change, resilience more than ever needs to be at the heart of our work in the regions systematically impacted by disasters and emergencies. and lastly, we will continue to address the drivers of the humanitarian needs by linking short-term assistance with long term solutions. we all agree that humanitarian aid alone cannot put an end to conflicts or crises and this is why we remain focused on putting the humanitarian-development-peace nexus approach into practice, and we are expanding on the work already in place. honourable members, let me take this opportunity to reaffirm my commitment to engage with all of you as we pursue our common goal of providing relief to those in need. i would like to most warmly thank honourable norbert neuser for his work not only on this report, but as the standing rapporteur for humanitarian aid. i have greatly appreciated your strong commitment to eu humanitarian action. thank you once again for your very good and timely report, and i look forward to our discussion.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i've been in humanitarian work for 26 years. i am concerned to see the number of people in need of humanitarian aid increasing rapidly each year. today, humanitarian crises last on average more than nine years. aid is often inadequate and humanitarian law is often violated. in the report we prepared together, we focused on several areas. and we think that the key one is the area of integrating education into humanitarian aid. education is included in development aid, but it's not enough. children and young people in conflict areas and in refugee camps should have unconditional access to education, which is not always the case. otherwise, we will be dealing with lost generations, as we are already talking about the generation of the war in syria. in this respect, the european union's policy should be based on a combination of humanitarian, development and peace-keeping activities. the document calls for increased funding to fill the gap in global humanitarian funding. one way is to require member countries to allocate a fixed proportion of their gross national income to humanitarian aid, as is the case with development aid. we also want to ensure that humanitarian aid is financed flexibly as needs grow. we would like the eu's external action to focus more on compliance with international humanitarian law, including the protection of humanitarian workers, which can be achieved through the eu's mechanism for monitoring such violations, structured dialogues and trade agreements, and if necessary by imposing sanctions on countries that do not comply.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, the question of the amount of humanitarian aid extended to the extreme by the western countries must be corollated by the question of its effectiveness and its justification. first, it cannot make up for the shortcomings of national authorities indefinitely. the 32 million or so displaced or refugees in africa, for example, must be offered lasting solutions in their own countries instead of our subsidies alone. in addition, there have been numerous scandals surrounding the management of these funds, from the artificial inflation of beneficiary lists to the extortion of humanitarian workers, notably by the islamist terrorists of al-shabab in somalia, from which some ngos have been removed. the fact that niger or nigeria have been declared persona non grata by recognised organisations at one time illustrates the tangible risks of diversion to the benefit of belligerents or terrorists. i myself have asked for clarification on the tindouf camps, which are de facto under the control of the polisario front, but i have been unsuccessful. it is also illusory to claim that the european humanitarian aid to afghanistan, which is supposed to be quadrupled, will not pass through the taliban at all, since the taliban will necessarily intervene in its distribution. they will also impede the exercise of women humanitarian workers, with a repercussion on afghans and their children. the european union, the world's largest donor, cannot compromise for the benefit of regimes or entities that we reject and against which we have sometimes fought to the death of our own soldiers.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. given the current global situation and the growing humanitarian needs, we need to find a way to keep the gap in quality of life between our part of the world and the developing world from widening. i agree that the european commission and the european external action service should develop a strategy to link humanitarian aid with development and peacebuilding. humanitarian aid, development programmes and peacebuilding are not independent processes. all of them are needed at the same time. the report also rightly highlights the alarming situation regarding violations of international humanitarian law. the european union should not only monitor such cases but also use all possible tools to prevent them. the report rightly noted the benefits of the airlift. and these kinds of solutions should not only be used during a pandemic. however, i think that the report has not adequately highlighted the role of civil society, and in particular of religious actors, with whom we need to work together if we are to reach those most in need. it is the church's missionaries, the first ones, the long-term ones in the field, who provide the basic social services and remain in the field when many others often leave. the european commission should therefore adopt a strategy for partnership with churches and faith-based organisations in the field of development and humanitarian cooperation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission wants to step up its humanitarian action, considering that it is already the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid, with 36% of global aid. but what happened to the tens of billions of euros on which the eu has always sent back requests for greater transparency? what we do know is that we divert rivers of money into the pockets of countries such as turkey, which use it to increase their power of blackmail against us, or into the pockets of ngos, which use it to facilitate human trafficking to europe, without any tangible results in terms of development of third countries or geopolitical benefits for europe. now the eu wants to step up its humanitarian action without worrying about making a mea culpa of a totally failed strategy, but instead worrying about finding new ways to encourage immigration, for example by using climate change as yet another excuse to trigger the reception mechanism. you call this european humanitarian action? i would rather call it europe's humanitarian suicide, financed, moreover, with european money.
mr. chairman, please! it is very good that we are talking about the future of the european union. but we must not forget that it is the present that creates the future. unfortunately, even in this room, there are those who refuse to help desperate people fleeing violence, who tolerate the transport of migrants to the forest for freezing, who are afraid of strong climate action or who are outright deniers of change. our approach is not only inhumane, but it's also very short-sighted, because the migrations that you're so afraid of will reach a much larger scale if we don't stop climate change. and the same people who are now burning plastic in their furnaces, creating smog, will shout "no to immigrants!" we can and must prevent that. the key is education, education, and more education. and the means for a just transformation. united, with the necessary powers and resources, this is the european union we must be in the face of new humanitarian challenges.
mr. chairman, please! this is a zero-one situation. if we want the western balkans - as one polish poet wrote - to be the work of other devils, if we want the western balkans to serve satraps like putin, like undemocratic china, and unfortunately also like turkey, in order to destabilise the situation in our countries, then let us leave the western balkan states to themselves. human trafficking, illegal migration, arms trafficking, organ trafficking, money laundering, corruption are not just problems of the western balkans. we are also being hit by a barrage of bombs, as are the member states today. if we leave the western balkans to themselves, these other devils will use this region of our continent to - as churchill once said - remain the "soft underbelly of europe" to destabilise the situation in our countries. we must therefore do everything possible to ensure that the fight against organised crime in the western balkans is also a fight for our democracies, our states and our services. as a former minister of the interior and administration in the government of the republic of poland, i am proud that the polish border guard, the polish police, are today supporting the fight against crime in the western balkans.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the tokyo nutrition summit held at the beginning of december drew attention to the alarming reality of malnutrition in the world: 800 million people are hungry, more than 140 million children are stunted, 20 million babies are born underweight and malnutrition is the underlying cause of almost half of all child deaths in the world. these figures are particularly alarming as the covid-19 pandemic will make them worse. the european union must therefore step up its aid to states in difficulty in order to overcome hunger. she has to do this for two reasons. the first is obviously a humanitarian reason. we cannot remain indifferent to these human tragedies, but our intervention must be planned to be effective. emergency aid is essential, but it is not enough. it is also, and above all, necessary to help these states to ensure their food security in the medium and long term. a joint fao, unicef and who document on the state of food security in the world has proposed six solutions that are worth considering. the second reason for intervening is to defend european interests. the migratory submersion is a worrying phenomenon. africa's population will increase by four times by the end of the century. if we do not ensure food security in the poorest countries, hunger will drive hundreds of millions of men and women to europe. we must therefore intervene, because i believe that two processes are necessary to protect us from excessive immigration. the first is to protect our external borders, if necessary by walls. the second is to show solidarity with the people who are suffering from hunger, so that they can live in their own countries in decent conditions.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! the scourge of hunger has become a fact of life in the modern world. today, nearly 6 million children under the age of five suffer from hunger. this is more than 50% more than in 2019. one in three children in the world is malnourished. every year, 2 million of them die from lack of food. the scourge of hunger continues to spread to new regions of the world. it is estimated that 40 million people are food insecure today. at the 'food for development' summit in tokyo, government and private donors pledged more than $27 billion to tackle the global crisis of malnutrition and hunger. this is a very valuable initiative. these are very valuable statements. but we must remember that food waste is a separate problem. it is unacceptable that we are producing enough food to feed the entire world population, while millions of people suffer from hunger or malnutrition. the european union has the means and the capacity to remedy this. we need to use them properly to end the scourge of hunger that is the shame of the 21st century.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report touches on the important issue of workplace democracy, which allows workers to have a say in shaping the changes taking place in the european union in the digital and green transition. the ecr group strongly supports the european works council directive, which aims to strengthen workers' rights to organise, to conclude collective agreements, and to freedom of assembly and association. we therefore agree with many aspects of the report, and its first draft was a very good text which we could support in its entirety. sadly, the text gradually deteriorated over time, and many compromises were questioned. adverse provisions, such as calls for sanctions to comply with the directive or the extended mandate of the european labour authority, have been removed. unfortunately, there are still many elements that we are not able to accept. the most extreme demand is the call for parity in the supervisory boards of all private and public companies. there are also a number of invasive solutions, such as calling on member states to remove all national legislation related to collective bargaining or a provision to introduce minimum eu rules on participation and representation on supervisory boards. the ecr group therefore abstains.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the environmental and digital transition facing our companies and our workers, a new way must be found to make this transition inclusive. this requires, among other things, more democracy and transparency at work. giving workers a voice will ensure better support for a just transition that leaves no one behind. that is why we socialists and democrats demand a reform which will guarantee, in the form of quotas, fair representation of workers in all their diversity on company boards. in a social europe of upward convergence, the responsibility of enterprises for social and fiscal dumping is also a crucial issue. a revision of the directive on information and consultation of workers should be initiated in order to strengthen workers' rights in relation to matters affecting the economic and employment situation of the undertaking. promoting sustainable governance practices is rightly mentioned in the report. a concrete example would be the setting of a maximum ceo-employee ratio. finally, our europe is part of a globalised world and must play an important role. we are convinced that europe must be heard as a responsible partner in respecting the fundamental values it defends within its own borders. that is why we socialists and democrats call for the rapid adoption of new binding measures on the duty of vigilance and corporate responsibility. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: this report is not a 'work for work' or an 'occupational therapy' for this parliament! no, it is a clear answer to the demands of our citizens. just one year ago, 88% of respondents to a eurobarometer survey confirmed that a social europe is personally important to them. this means a europe for equal opportunities, working conditions and social protection and inclusion. we know that there is no such thing as a fair working environment without participation and participation.
president, mr bishop, thank you for the excellent report, commissioner, it is very important to have a say at work. it is a healthy situation for workers and employers which is essential for our economy. europe is a community of core values and in that we must treat workers in the right way. the workplace is very important for the employee to be motivated to do his job properly. safety is of paramount importance to an employee in the workplace, but so is health. and that's in everyone's best interest. the european population is 50% over 50 and it is important to keep europeans healthy for longer, so that they can participate in society for longer. it is also important to have healthy employees who can work flexibly longer if they wish. i'm almost 66, i might be retired, but work can be a lot of fun if the conditions are right. so i encourage as many people as possible, if they like it, to work longer. i therefore urge you, commissioner, to pay more attention to preventive health, to active policies to encourage people to adopt a healthy lifestyle, because healthy people can participate in our society for longer, can work longer if they want to, and can live independently for longer. that is good for the economy of europe. the values and standards we have in europe are so important. so, commissioner, i call on you to make preventive health care policy and to promote healthy lifestyles in policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, strengthening the instruments of democracy in the workplace is now a necessity in order to manage the impact of the digital ecological transition on society and employment. too often, strategic decisions by companies, concerning work organisation, investment, mergers, acquisitions or even mass redundancies, are taken without any involvement of the workers' representatives or without even informing them. we need to change direction. in recent years i have been involved in a european project, together with colleagues from fisac cgil and uni europa, which analysed the effectiveness of the current european directives on worker involvement and i am pleased to note that many of the conclusions we drew are also an integral part of mrs bischoff's report, which i thank. the time has come for a revision of the european works councils directive to strengthen and make effective the right to information and consultation. these caes are an essential tool, but they are imperfect and underused. we shall shortly be starting work on the legislative own-initiative report on the reform of works councils and i am convinced that we will be able to find the necessary ambition to add a new element to the construction of the social europe of tomorrow.
mr president, irish trade unionists have raised with me their concern, which i know they’ve communicated to the commission, that post-brexit the strategic use of ireland as headquarters for european works councils has increased. and why is this a concern? because ireland’s implementation of the works council directive is haphazard. i am pleased the commission has confirmed to me in writing that it is in dialogue with ireland to ensure the law is fully applied, so that workers here can enjoy full works councils rights. moreover, we must make sure that the right to works council representation is guaranteed throughout the eu, that the irish government implement the outstanding aspects immediately and that workplace democracy is prioritised in the eu. workers’ rights and representations are not optional extras. they are hard-won rights and must be protected even at billion-dollar multinationals.
mr. chairman, please! the debate we have heard today has led us to the conclusion that, for the left and the right, both of whom are represented here in the european parliament, human work is not only a special asset but also a vital social asset. the european union should strongly support member states' efforts to provide workers with information about and opportunities to participate in decision-making processes at the workplace. it is therefore necessary to strengthen the union's toolbox, in particular by adopting an ambitious framework directive that streamlines the existing rules and strengthens the position of workers with regard to their right to information, consultation and participation in undertakings. i believe that the resolution we are adopting today clearly and comprehensively identifies the key needs and conclusions for the democratisation of the labour relationship. i would therefore like to thank my colleague, the rapporteur, gabi bischoff, for the preparation of this important document. we expect the european commission to take appropriate action now and to submit appropriate legislative proposals to parliament.
mr. chairman, please! in a few days we will be celebrating christmas, the birth of christ, but for many europeans, christmas is a time of fear. they want to be happy, they want to be happy, they want to spend it with their families, but at the same time they are worried because europe is going through so many crises right now. the one that's been talked about so much here, the one about the pandemic, the one about the threat to our border from the belarusian regime and putin, and also the one about europe becoming very impoverished, the europeans becoming very impoverished. the european economy is starting to have serious problems. and that's what i'd like to focus on first. first, we need to consider why this is so. you're talking about the need to accelerate these ambitious energy, climate goals. yes, we have said it many times: the climate must be protected, it must be saved, it must be changed in a way that will give future generations a better life. but it cannot be done at the expense of the europeans. it cannot be based on the romantic notion that the "fit for 55" package will make everything better. no, he's not gonna make it better. it will lead to even greater problems and impoverishment for europeans. so, first of all, we need to focus on revising this idea. we must consider whether the ideas that are there serve the europeans or are against them. thank you very much. thank you. merry christmas to you.
mr. chairman, please! the only response to the global challenges that covid creates is solidarity and responsibility. it's clear to me that we should be giving more vaccines to developing countries. we expect the same from other world leaders. if we don't vaccinate the majority of the world's population, we'll never be free of fear. and fighting the pandemic also requires us to take more responsibility. while 77% of citizens across the union are already fully vaccinated, in poland the figure is just over 50%. refusal of vaccination increases the risk of hospitalization and severe disease. overwhelmed hospitals and overwhelmed doctors can't carry the aid to others in need. i call on the polish authorities to take decisive action to promote vaccination and to impose restrictions on the unvaccinated. saving lives, not political calculation, must be the first priority of any government. enough of your stalling and your 500-plus-death-a-day program. only responsible cooperation between government and citizens can defeat the pandemic. it's the only way you can prove that every life is a miracle to you.
mr. chairman, please! the absent commissioner! fellow workers! today, the words "war" and "fight" are very common. the battle is well marked: the pandemic, the situation on the polish-belarusian border. there are even announcements of sanctions. it's a pity that they come from those who don't want to block the construction of nord stream 2, like the ppe chairman among others. but we forget about another fight, another war. the war that the european commission is waging against the europeans. that is, ladies and gentlemen, allowing the ets, the european carbon levy system, to drain the pockets of citizens. yes, there are provisions in the directive that allow not only to appoint the appropriate services, but also to conduct an investigation. we cannot be held hostage to speculation and theft. the "fit for 55" package is just a variation on this ets. i call on the european commission to end the war with the europeans.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! the current policy of fighting climate change is accompanied by a very specific threat: rising energy prices and instability of supply. it is shameful that this winter, as politico suggests, europeans will be forced to put on a sweater and warm up. currently, one mwh in austria costs 3 times more than a year earlier, in poland 2.7 times more, in france 3.5 times more. and yet, the availability and affordability of electricity has been our great civilization achievement so far. a 2020 eurostat survey already showed that as many as 8% of the population of the european union are concerned about not being able to heat their home. but the european commission is not listening, it is not speeding up, and it is not seeing the problem in the fact that the richest will get richer and the rest will bear the real costs of the green revolution. the leaders of the member states should therefore finally engage in a courageous and frank debate on the policies represented by frans timmermans. someone has to put the brakes on this road, because at the end of this road, there is only inflation, unemployment and poverty. we are not fit for poverty.
mr. chairman, please! yesterday in my country, poland, a person was suffocated every two minutes. and he suffocated. more than 660 people died in poland yesterday. the virus knows no borders. the virus is not known to be in the schengen area. so what if peter liese says that in germany today, you can't go anywhere without a vaccine. mr. postle, you just cross the bridge and you can go anywhere. if we don't coordinate our european efforts to fight the virus, we will lose. the efforts and hardships of buying vaccines, covid passports, will be in vain if they are not valid everywhere. it's not the fault of people who get cancer, die of cancer, because they can't get to a hospital, because that's where people with covid are, and people die of covid, that they have a government that is kneeling to the virus. it's not the fault of doctors and paramedics that they can't deal with people with covid just because they have a government that is on its knees to the virus. it's our responsibility. we are here, in politics, in the european parliament, to protect the health and lives of the people. and the covid passport must become a valid document, because it's not the people's fault that they have irresponsible leaders. and that is our responsibility. the covid passport is in europe today, and in parts of europe, it's just not there. and that one bridge i was telling peter liese about, that's the one bridge that people are dying on.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the topical and urgent subject (rule 162) of the european commission's guidelines on non-exclusive language (2021/3021 (rsp)). as in the case of the recent monthly sessions, the possibility of voting at a distance from parliament's contact offices in the member states was provided for. i would also like to remind you that in the plenary chamber the speakers still take the floor from the main speaker. please check the list of speakers and come to the platform when it is time for you to speak.
madam president, please. you know, when i was a child, i lived under a system that dictated what hungarians could think, say and do. i thought we left this world behind us once and for all in 1990. in response, the commission has now put a list of prohibited words in a document we have obtained, including 'holy christmas', 'christian' and 'citizen' and 'ladies and gentlemen'. so brussels has launched a cultural war in the name of political correctness. the holy father calls this ideological colonization, and i say enough is enough. it was enough that some felt entitled to formulate dictates. does mrs. dalli realize that you are invading our traditions, our cultural heritage, and interfering with the work of linguistics professors? mrs. dalli also lied, because it's not a half-finished job, it's already been molded into a colorful and fragrant form. it's not enough to withdraw this material, my fellow mps. the idea of a language guard being run by the commission is itself outrageous. the material should not be corrected, but thrown in the trash, and mrs dalli should be dismissed by the president of the commission. and i wish you all a blessed christmas.
madam president, vice-president schinas, the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg, with so many legislative matters to deal with, and here we have a supreme example of a matter that should not have come to this podium because it is not a legislative act, not even an official commission document, not an official commission communication, but an internal working document recommending the use of inclusive language to prevent the mechanical or, even worse, unconscious reproduction of clichés and stereotypes from the proven experience that stereotypes lead to the reproduction of prejudice. prejudice is the seed of hatred, and hatred leads to violence and hate crime, and to exclusion, of course; therefore, it is completely out of place for the display from this tribunal of personal religious beliefs under the hypocritical invocation of religious freedom - which no one has questioned and which, in any case, would be included in the motto of the european union, "united in diversity" - and confuses citizens about a false debate and an even more contrived object. the only explanation is a concession by the mainstream right of this house, the people's party, to what political science calls the 'culture war', which is a forced and artificial confrontation between values, symbols and the meaning we give to words, and all i can say is that with this the right of this house, the people's party, is playing the game to the extreme right. so this is a matter that should never have come to the european parliament's gallery: we are not here to exhibit our personal religious beliefs, but to respect each other in our diversity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a merry christmas and a merry christmas to the christian traditions. a europe which wants to ban the word 'christmas' and the christian names 'joseph' and 'mary' is not and will never be our europe. because europe is either christian or it is not europe. this is the great teaching of schuman and of pope john paul ii, the holy pope, who defeated the evil empire embodied in soviet communism. we must be proud of our identity and our values and europe should be proud to claim its judeo-christian roots. instead, we are witnessing the continuing folly of a europe which wants to deny itself and erase its history with the ridiculous excuse of not discriminating against some muslim immigrants. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. what would europe be without the symbols of christendom? without the churches, the bell towers, the art? europe is christian, not muslim. europe is not eurabia. those who enter our homes, those who come to our countries must adapt and must respect our traditions, our history, our rules. it is the immigrants who must integrate, not the other way around. italians are the most supportive people in the world, but nothing and no one can ever erase our identity and our christian roots. merry christmas to all of you and your families.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, each member of the european parliament must know his rights and obligations, like every other citizen. i believe you can agree with this, despite the fact i have just broken three rules given by the commission’s guidelines. byla jsem v šoku, když jsem se dozvěděla o těchto pokynech. pane místopředsedo komise, chci vám poděkovat, že tyto pokyny jsou již minulostí, ale přesto i tato diskuze ukazuje, že je tato debata důležitá pro budoucnost, aby se to neopakovalo. mottem evropské unie nadále zůstává „jednotná v rozmanitosti“ a tím by se měly řídit všechny instituce při komunikaci. ale ony pokyny evropské komise tuto diverzitu naopak potíraly pod záminkou jednoty. ve jménu korektnosti nesmíme pošlapávat naše křesťanské kořeny a stydět se za to, že slavíme vánoce. anebo nesmíme si zakazovat zobrazování žen jako maminek, které se starají o děti. korektní vyjadřování by mělo odpovídat naším společným hodnotám. podobné byrokratické iniciativy, jako je tato poslední, ničí práci komise a prohlubují nedůvěru v evropskou unii jako celek. některým to možná připadá směšné, urážlivé, ale já to považuji za velmi nebezpečné. proto bych chtěla vyzvat, aby v komunikaci byla využívána hlavně slušnost, citlivost a zdravý rozum. očekávám, že se komise poučí a chyby se už nebudou opakovat. přeji všem požehnané vánoce a hodně zdraví do nového roku. i wish you a merry christmas and a happy new year!
madam president, commissioner, commissioner weber, i hope you are ashamed of what you have done. it's an embarrassing fake news show. and you know it. you are also well aware that at this time there was another debate to be held today, one much more important to the average european man or woman: the debate on rising energy prices, inflation and poverty. at this hour. i'm going now. meanwhile, we are having this shameful spectacle, the witch hunt, which you, your group together with these populists - because they applaud you today - are organizing against europeans and europeans. this is really embarrassing. today you stand in the same row with kaczynski, with orban, who are raising their hand against women, against minorities and afraid of a language full of respect and tolerance. and you two stood in the same row together today. and that's the most embarrassing part. today, europe needs peace. europe needs responsible politicians today, because this document from the european commission will not abolish christmas. they'll be wiped out by irresponsible politicians who will do nothing to stop inflation, rising prices, declining wages. these politicians will eliminate christmas because people won't have anything to put in their pots or on their tables for christmas. and you obviously don't care because you prefer to scare people.
thank you very much, mr. ambassador. i recommend rule 171 and 172 of our rules of procedure and rule 10 (1). please take the time to read these rules of procedure.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the recovery and resilience instrument state of play (2021/2996 ((rsp)). i would also like to remind you that no question-and-answer session will be held in any debate at this monthly session and no blue cards will be accepted. as in the case of the recent monthly sessions, the possibility of voting at a distance from parliament's contact offices in the member states was provided for. i would also like to remind you that in the plenary chamber the speakers still take the floor from the main floor. please check the list of speakers and come to the platform when it is time for you to speak.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the pandemic has affected all of europe, and that's why the recovery plans were created. poland has shown solidarity by guaranteeing the loan, and the european parliament expects poland to renounce its own constitution. no, we will not give up our sovereignty because we do not want a single european state. poland has never defrauded eu funds. a very senior official of the european union admitted this recently, and i asked him about it. but it is against poland that resolutions are adopted, even though the average european hears much more about corruption in bulgaria, malta or the list of 2,500 spanish lawyers to ms jourová, because the spanish legal system is simply not good. so it turns out that for now, the rebuilding fund is a political instrument for the so-called "us". the most important decisions in poland and hungary are made in parliament, not on the hunt and not in the castles. today poland is defending europe from lukashenka and putin, and your socialist and liberal colleagues are building nord stream 2 with putin, and your socialist colleagues are on putin's payroll and sailing on yachts with putin. as christmas approaches, i wish the european commission to return to christian values and to treat workers, states, nations and their economies equally. and then finally, i have a question, because we're dealing with a huge inflation. shouldn't we start talking about a review of all grants today, because at 10 percent inflation, this aid to the pandemic-hit countries is just going to be much, much less valuable?
madam president, an illegitimate constitutional tribunal that undermines fundamental rights, that attacks the primacy of eu law, and that now declared that the right to a fair trial, as laid out in the european convention on human rights, does not apply to polish citizens. judges being suspended for applying eu law. prosecutors moved to the other end of the country simply for doing their job. i mean, it is pretty obvious by now that poland does not have a functional independent judiciary any more, and the commission obviously knows all this. it must, because otherwise it would already have greenlighted the rrf funds going to poland. the big question remains. if an independent judiciary is a precondition for receiving rrf funding, why does this not apply to all eu funding? why has the european commission not yet triggered the rule of law conditionality? i guess that it is because the european council a while ago wrote something into some document. let me remind you of this, commissioner. not the european council, it’s the eu institutions supervising the commission. it is this house, the european parliament.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. well, you're blocking funds for poland because you don't like the polish justice system. and i know how to solve this problem. i refer to the texts of "libération": what if poland organised its justice system in the same way as you organise your justice system in the courts of the european court of justice and the court of auditors? so, political recommendation for judges by the government -- judges who are paid by your political parties -- and then the entertainment of politicians, judges and lobbyists on hunts, in castles and other places, often at the taxpayer's expense. the budget commissioner is having dinner with the judge who is supposed to control him, and then there's silence in this european parliament. just like you can talk from morning to night about the independence of the judiciary, about the rule of law, about this topic - silence, censorship. you can't talk about it. so i have an idea for you: why not poland implement your european, modern system and then you unblock the funds? because you learn from the best.
madam president, commissioners and ministers! the european recovery fund regulation requires consultation with local, regional and national authorities. the european commission also stresses that it will cooperate with regional authorities in the exchange of information. this is obvious, because transparency, monitoring is essential. it is difficult to expect to carry out effective reforms to modernise the economy, the environment or digitalisation without the involvement of local authorities. but the fact that the polish government is not meeting the requirements of the european semester cannot stop the implementation of these reforms, because firstly, society is waiting for them and secondly, they are our common goal. so i wanted to ask you two questions in this example. first, is this not a good time to think about revising the legal basis and yet not to introduce in the future the element of the possibility of direct cooperation with the regional authorities in a situation where some government is slow in implementing the requirements, the conditions? and secondly, is the polish situation today special, because really the polish society is waiting for these measures - they are necessary and needed, and expected... could the agreement between the commission and the polish government not include such a mechanism?
madam president, commissioner dombrovskis, commissioner gentiloni, ladies and gentlemen, today 22 member states have received a positive assessment of the recovery and resilience plan, and among them is italy, which is the country most closely followed by the european commission. we have nevertheless pointed out in every possible way that the italian plan does not respect the priority of reducing gender, generational and above all territorial inequalities. this is because the italian government is held hostage by a single party in the north which does not allow it to absorb the resources which were allocated mainly to the south with the aim of appropriating them later. the south lacks day nurseries, but the italian government is building them in the north. the south lacks infrastructure, but the italian government is building it in the north. the south is short of staff, but the italian government is hiring in the north. now, i think everyone in this room realizes that if italy fails, the whole of the european union fails. so i say at this point that if europe fails, it is your fault because we have warned you and you have the duty to watch.
the more progress that can be made in the recovery and resilience facility, mr president, the more it becomes clear that the european union has used the rather dramatic circumstances of the coronavirus pandemic with a very dubious cynicism to push its own political agenda. most governments have eagerly embraced the coronavirus to expand their power, including the european union. suddenly, the european union is now active in areas that were previously the exclusive competence of the member states. suddenly the european union is allowed to issue its own debt securities on the financial markets and to impose its own taxes on its own resources. the old debates on this subject were finally ended in a wave of bewilderment in favour of the centralised unitary state which the european union is becoming to the detriment of the member states. the fictitious money that the ecb picks up out of nowhere out of nowhere, more than thin air in an endless spiral of debt creation is shamelessly used by the european union as a political weapon with which to deny money to member states that are not sufficiently submissive to that centralized state. on the contrary, those member states which do follow the lead - such as the member state of belgium, where i come from - and which blindly approve all the manoeuvres of the european commission, are rewarded with this crown money and are given crown money for everything. we have recently discovered to our surprise that belgium is receiving crown money for new listening devices for its state security and intelligence services. as i said, the european union and corona, it's a story of brutal cynicism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the good news is that the european court of justice has confirmed the link between respect for the rule of law and nextgenerationeu funds. it dismissed the actions brought by poland and hungary against the regulation establishing that link. however, this regulation is limited to requiring respect for the rule of law as regards the management of the funds only. what happens when a state circumvents the rule of law in other areas? in this case there is no automaticity derived from a regulation, in this case there is the discretion of political decision, which can also block funds, for example by not approving the reform plan on which the request for funds submitted by each state to the commission depends and the european council has used it, because the polish plan has not yet been approved. what will happen if a member state violates the rule of law provisions of the european court of justice in the future, but has already approved its plan in nextgenerationeu? for example, the spanish supreme court has leaked that, as far as our immunity is concerned, it considers that spanish law is superior to european law. so what will the commission do in this case to avoid a scandalous double standard with poland and hungary? is it taboo for the commission to sanction a western country in the union?
the commission has already done so. a lot of good news about the corona rebuilding fund today. but let me say that from the point of view of budgetary control i have a very different picture. how is it that italy, spain, france have such big problems? i mention these countries only because it is in the newspapers, and often. why are there so few projects? why are so many administrations not prepared, so unprepared that the projects are not coming until 2022 or later and not today, not in the crisis, when the money is urgently needed? so unprepared that local newspapers are reporting that the funds could be intercepted through corrupt channels? many have warned. we have these problems of lack of absorption capacity in structural policy too. i am not going to repeat the mistakes we made here, allowing more and more time and more and more lax rules. we insist on real crisis aid in budgetary control and not on an endless n+x rule with crisis aid when the crisis is over. we insist on the publication of the beneficiaries of the grants. we insist on digital transparency of project processes. the board today, what was presented, is a start. if the member states do not deliver fully, no further money may be paid. we will address this clearly in the discharge to the commission.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your cooperation with the commission. the czech republic has already received almost a billion euros, slovakia over 800 million, croatia the same. instead of the 13% allocation from the kpo, poles will get skyrocketing inflation, a weak zloty and uncertainty for christmas. the objectives of the instrument for reconstruction and resilience, i.e. the green and digital transformation, are something poland needs to invest in. unfortunately, due to party squabbles in the ruling group, this year's christmas will not be celebrated in poland. the polish government has a grinch face today because although the prime minister has already handed out so many checks without covering the prescribed regions during the campaign, now he is taking away the poles' development opportunities. the aforementioned rfu is also a historic opportunity for poland. all you have to do is follow the rule of law. ladies and gentlemen, in the context of poland's gradual departure from europe, as a pole and a european, i will say something that everyone in this room will understand: "all i want for christmas for poland is the eu".
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. the instrument for reconstruction and resilience is an extraordinary testament to european solidarity in the face of extraordinary challenges. the european commission borrows to get that money into the economy as quickly as possible. and that's why he's happy that this money is going to most of the european countries, including countries like spain, which were hit by the pandemic crisis, but before that by the financial crisis. i'd like that money to go to poland. but i understand why they don't float. there are concerns that the investment money could turn into a campaign fund or enrich oligarchs in power. in the european union, all money is conditional. the terms of the european commission's approval are clear. they are the same principles that poland agreed to and that brought us into the european union, because an independent judiciary is an investment-friendly climate. it's also a guarantee that the funds will go to a good cause. so it is in the public interest to have these conditions in place, because it protects citizens from abuse of power. it's in the interest of the economy, because the economy is in dire need of investment. and these are my wishes for the coming year 2022. i wish it were.
i have to say, madam president, i am not going to go into detail. the implementation of the reconstruction fund is proceeding as planned. in the first interim balance we can see that the mutually agreed criteria for spending the funds are being met. the implementation of the reconstruction fund thus represents a successful example of european solidarity and effective european coordination of investment policy. the reconstruction fund thus stands out positively from the previously ineffective coordination of economic and financial policies in the eu. this, together with the stabilisation of a european investment fund from 2026, may become a model for future eu economic and financial policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. this means that all agreed criteria must be met. and as long as poland and hungary cannot, because of the lack of rule of law, explain how they intend to implement criterion 10, namely to prevent, detect and remedy corruption, fraud and conflicts of interest in the use of funds, neither country should receive any funds from the reconstruction fund.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, no reforms, no money. without reforms, the funds will be frozen. that 's right . our countries must enhance equity and administrative efficiency while protecting the environment and mitigating climate change. but what if the un denounces that the judicial reform in italy leaves environmental crimes unpunished because of too short a limitation period, leading to substantial impunity for ecoreaters, who require complex investigations on a par with organized crime? what if simplification becomes deregulation, promoting unreliable and inefficient technologies like carbon capture and storage, incinerators, gas infrastructure, methane, producing more polluting and climate-changing emissions? if economic, social and territorial cohesion is not promoted, as article 4 of the regulation requires, but a competitive system of calls for tenders between municipalities is increasing the social and economic impact of the crisis, particularly on women in the less-favoured regions? the commission must take action to protect the most vulnerable citizens, otherwise the rrf will not only be the tombstone of the hopes of reversing the course of the south and the disadvantaged regions, but will condemn the next generations to an unsustainable debt.
madam president, commission, council, we are now at the point where we can assess the operation and implementation of this new instrument, an instrument which had to be negotiated very quickly in the autumn of last year and which is certainly bearing fruit in good time and fruit necessary to help the recovery process. we were just getting to know the scoreboard today. a few hours ago, before this debate began, we were able to go to that website. and the plans of the countries that are well-targeted and well-designed are being approved and are receiving funding. i think it's a success. we must take care of this success, we must protect it, because the commission also opened the debate on the future of taxation rules a few weeks ago. the debate on fiscal rules is certainly directly linked to the possibility of maintaining this structural debt issue in the european union, an absolutely central instrument for this crisis and for future crises, which we hope will be long in coming.
madam president, at the beginning, the rrf was presented as an equal partner of the cohesion policy. we were told that they would both live alongside each other in harmony and a balanced relationship. what is the current status quo, though? we have 26 national plans submitted, 22 approved. we have three partnership agreements submitted, one approved. we have eur 56 billion disbursed out of the rrf, we have zero from the cohesion policy. so something went wrong. i don’t like this to be the last programming period of the cohesion policy. i don’t like to participate in a parliament that killed our policy. so what we need now from the commission is a flight plan for each member state of where to land in order not to lose precious european funding. not a single euro should be lost. i think it is possible because these are the same governments that have to conclude the last programming period, the same governments that have to start the new one and to deal with the rrf, so they need some help. please help them not to lose our european funding.
i am not going to go into detail. we cannot talk enough about the eu's roadmap. it is the core, the heart of nextgenerationeu, and some things are still not clear to me. on the one hand, we wanted the social partners, civil society, citizens in all member states to be involved and involved in the projects of the future in which we are investing. on the other hand, it was quite clear that this money was not being invested in the past, it was not being used to fill budgetary holes, but was being invested in new initiatives for the future. i have not yet been made sufficiently clear about this either. the billions of dollars of reconstruction funds must not only be invested in future projects, but also in people. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we must ensure that, commission and european parliament, and we will do so. it's part of our control so that we invest in the future and not the past.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first of all, thank you for your constructive feedback. the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) is a new and unique instrument. it comes with great expectations but also with its challenges. the commission will continue to do its best to make sure it will bring benefits to all europeans with tangible results on the ground, with assistance also available from the technical support instrument. never in the history of the european union have we seen such a strong impetus and commitment to reforms as with the rrf. it allows member states to address reforms that have long been needed but were difficult to tackle. it will have a lasting impact on each of our countries and on the european union as a whole. while some assessments take longer than others, i can assure you that the commission applies the same standards to all member states. at the same time, we will be protecting the eu’s financial instruments and its founding principles and values. the recovery and resilience facility is firmly on track. in general, we see good progress across member states even if we will only reach cruising speed in 2022. together, we have achieved a great deal in this first year of implementation. next year, with your continued support, we will progress further as we look forward to securing economic growth, job creation and increasing the resilience of the european union as a whole.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have three remarks in my intervention. first, i feel a prevailing atmosphere of pride in this house, and i think we should not be reluctant about this pride because indeed the achievement is a common achievement and it is a big one. of course, we did not solve all the problems of our institutional architecture, but the commission, parliament, the member states all played a significant and important role in reaching this big achievement. also for our citizens, i think we have to keep this clearly in mind as it is important. the second point: of course, the pandemic is not over, and we are all worried about the possibility that new variants are again pushing in the wrong direction. but this is a reason to further underline the importance of this common recovery strategy because we know that the impact of the pandemic and of these variants is quite dangerous, but at the same time, we know that the economy is in recovery. in a certain sense, the economy has adapted to the pandemic despite the new infections and the new risks, and this is the reason why it is now important to steer this recovery in the right direction with our priorities and with our targets. the third point: in many interventions, it was very clearly requested that there is close monitoring on the ground of the implementation of the recovery and resilience facility, and this is the commitment of the commission, as my colleague valdis just said. so rest assured that first we will negotiate the remaining plans without double standards, but with full respect for the country-specific recommendations, including those connected to the rule of law, and for the protection of the financial interests of the union, and second, that we will closely monitor the implementation from member states of these plans because we need success. so we need these plans to give an added value connected to our priorities and we need to implement the targets and milestones that are in our plans. so i think we had a very good start this year, but we have a lot of work to do beginning from next year.
the chairman of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been given a very important role in the european union. the coordinated response to the covid-19 pandemic at european union and national level has enabled us to move from crisis management to recovery. an ambitious policy and funding agenda, adopted at eu and national level, will help us ensure a sustainable and inclusive recovery, so that europe can successfully transition to green and digital after the crisis and become more resilient to potential future crises. the benefits of the measures and policies are already being seen across member states, with the economy having reached pre-crisis levels earlier than initially expected. the recovery and resilience mechanism, which is part of the european semester, will be a key instrument in the coming years to achieve the green digital transition that all member states and the union as a whole are committed to. transparency and regular dialogue between the institutions must continue during the implementation phase of the programme. the council will continue to count on the support of the european parliament and the constructive participation of all meps for the successful implementation of the mechanism. thank you so much.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. it was clear from the introduction of the recovery and resilience mechanism that this instrument would be problematic and used to impose the agenda on brussels officials without taking into account the specificities of the member states. you're throwing around some numbers, printing billions of euros, promising a bright future. and at the same time, we have an energy crisis and an economic crisis that is deepening, and thousands of businesses are closing down under the pressure of the negative factors that are building up. on top of that, you're trying to convince us that the current situation with the mechanism is a bed of roses. not only is this not the case, but policy analysis shows that next generation eu spending will not help economies as quickly and effectively. we see that many of the countries have failed to submit their plans on time. and the bulgarian plan was returned for revision and used for hand-wringing and interference in our internal affairs, which is something completely unacceptable. this mechanism is another colossal failure of the european institutions. unfortunately, the price of this failure will have to be paid by all of us, the european citizens who are participating in this insane experiment.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic has been and remains an extremely difficult and painful experience for europeans, and i am proud that we have been able to work together to develop a tool that will effectively counter the negative economic consequences of this crisis. i am therefore pleased that 22 recovery plans have already been approved by the commission and that almost €55 billion in advances has been paid to member states. but it pains me all the more that poland is still not among those countries. polish local governments and businesses are as eagerly awaiting these measures as their counterparts in other eu countries. they are also in a very difficult situation because the polish government is keeping them in check, preventing them from planning their spending responsibly and thoughtfully for the coming year, because they still don't know if and when they will receive the promised funds from the reconstruction fund. i fully agree that poland must fulfil all the obligations imposed on it by the european semester, in particular in the area of the rule of law. however, the poles cannot be the victims of the government's irresponsibility, and that is why i call on the commission to follow the call of the european parliament in october this year and to use all the tools available to ensure that polish citizens are not deprived of eu funds and to find ways to transfer funds directly to the final beneficiaries.
in writing. the recovery and resilience mechanism is a good opportunity for member states to restore their economies and make investments that address the economic and social imbalances caused by the pandemic. the implementation of the national plans is largely the responsibility of the member states and their success is determined by the way the plans have been drafted and the efforts of policy-makers to implement the proposed reforms. the european parliament and the european commission are responsible for monitoring the implementation process on the basis of performance indicators and a new system of continuous evaluation which allows the european institutions to analyse in detail the work of each member state. in the case of romania, the current government has repaired the mistakes of the previous executive and adopted a mechanism for implementing the pnrr that should have been done a long time ago, our country being in a position to access the advance without being able to use the available resources. therefore, there is a need in romania, as well as in other european countries, for a continuous dialogue between all political forces and social and non-governmental actors in an attempt to build a pact on the implementation of the plans in each member state. the success of the mechanism may allow the european union to institutionalise this long-term funding system.
in writing. – the objectives behind the creation of the eu recovery and resilience package should not be fudged by considerations which are extraneous to the urgent need to relaunch the european economy and staunch the outflow of government funds that is increasing massively the public debt of all member states. the preparation period for most national programmes is over and the disbursement of financing has begun taking place. a major dispute however remains: the conditionality to access rrf funding. this is especially contentious when it comes to economic country specific recommendations aimed at pressurising member states over policy objectives where it has previously been impossible to do so. the commission here retains broad discretion in assessing whether a national plan contributes to addressing effectively all – or a significant subset of – challenges identified in the relevant country-specific recommendations. yet such discretion should be law-based, and not based on the policy approach of the commission office in charge. finally, from a planning aspect, policymakers must at this point also redefine the facility in view of what could clearly become a prolonged pandemic. consequences remain difficult to foresee but one can already conclude that in size and format, the recovery fund is likely not to be enough to contain the unforeseeable impacts of the pandemic.
in writing. the eu's recovery package is moving slowly but surely. by mid-december, 26 of the 27 member states had submitted a plan to the commission for the implementation of the rescue package, and 22 of these had been approved. to date, €54.2 billion worth of aid has been paid to member states. however, poland and hungary are again in the grip of grief. the commission has called for certain changes to be made to safeguard the rule of law and to combat corruption, but these have not been accepted. poland has even threatened to use its veto to stop the eu's climate package if it does not receive the aid. fortunately, the commission has stood firm. the eu is not a bank machine from which countries that violate our common values can simply withdraw money. the principle of the rule of law, which is linked to the recovery package, should continue to be upheld, even if it is challenged by countries which do not respect these principles.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on plans to undermine further fundamental rights in poland, in particular regarding the standards of the european convention of human rights and sexual and reproductive health and rights (2021/3014(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for inviting the presidency of the council to intervene on this topic. the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms represents an unprecedented historic achievement. it has been ratified by all eu member states and sets common rules and standards on human rights, democracy and the rule of law for 830 million people across the continent. the european court of human rights is in charge of implementing and interpreting the convention and ensures that fundamental rights are fully respected in each and every member state. the convention and the court jurisprudence play a fundamental role in eu law, as confirmed by the charter of fundamental rights and the jurisprudence of the court of justice of the european union. the accession of the union itself to the convention, which is currently being negotiated, is a priority of the council, as was already presented here during the presentation of the presidency programme. this is indicative of the key role that the convention plays in the protection and promotion of the fundamental rights in the eu acquis. with regard to poland, the council remains seized of the article 7(1) procedure and continues to closely monitor the recent legal developments and other evolving issues in the country. a state of play on the situation in poland was discussed at the general affairs council yesterday, with the commission giving a thorough update on all relevant issues. with regard to sexual and reproductive rights, the issue of abortion in particular is highly sensitive and complex from both an ethical and legal perspective. it touches upon some of the most fundamental questions. the european court of human rights has consistently ruled that the member states of the council of europe enjoy a wide margin of appreciation as to whether, and under what circumstances, abortion is permitted under the national law. as far as the european union is concerned, primary law confirms that union law does not interfere with constitutional provisions and other national legislation of the eu member states relating to abortion. in accordance with article 168(7) of the treaty of the functioning on the european union, union action in the field of public health should respect the responsibilities of the member states for the definition of their health policy and for the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care. in this context, the european pillar of social rights states that everyone has the right to timely access to affordable preventive and corrective health care of good quality. in addition, in its february 2021 conclusion on human—rights based recovery, the council stressed the need for universal access to quality and affordable reproductive health information, education and health care services. thank you very much for your attention, and i look forward to your interventions.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members, thank you for putting this point on the agenda of the plenary. president von der leyen in this house already explained, on 19 october, the deep concerns that the commission has with regard to the rule of law in poland. at the time, she also offered the cancellation of all eu actions that we are deploying to change the things we need to change in this context. the commission considers that there is a clear risk of a serious breach of the rule of law in poland. it’s for this reason that it adopted the recent proposal in accordance with article 71 of the treaty. this procedure is still ongoing, and just as the minister mentioned yesterday, we provided at the general affairs council an update on the state of play. the commission has also undertaken other steps to protect the rule of law in poland. in particular, it launched a number of specific infringement procedures and successfully requested interim measures from the court of justice to protect the independence of polish judges. the commission is also very concerned about the recent rulings of the constitutional tribunal and will not hesitate to make use of its powers under the treaties to safeguard the uniform application and integrity of union law. honourable members, on 15 july the commission also launched an infringement procedure against poland in relation to the so-called lgbt ideology-free zones resolutions adopted by several polish regions, counties and municipalities on the basis of a lack of sincere cooperation on this topic. let me be very clear. lgbtqi-free zones have no place in our union. this is not our model of society. this is not our europe. the commission services also engaged in a dialogue with the polish authorities concerning the amendments of the 2014-2020 polish regional programmes, to which, as you know, react-eu funds are being added. as a result of this dialogue, all regions which had adopted such problematic resolutions, namely the regions of lubelskie, małopolskie, łódzkie, podkarpackie and świętokrzyskie, have now replaced them or amended them. they also committed to ensure non-discrimination on grounds of sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. the commission services have resumed the negotiations on this basis of the react-eu programme amendments in relation to those five regions. as always, the commission will continue to monitor the compliance with the principle of non-discrimination. my colleague, commissioner dalli, also addressed this house on 20 october on the occasion of the first anniversary of the de facto abortion ban in poland. as you know, legislative powers in this area lie with the member states. moreover, in the area of public health, member states are responsible for the definition of their health policy, and the union’s competence is in general limited to encouraging cooperation between member states and, if necessary, to lend support to their action. nevertheless, the commission reminds that, even when exercising their exclusive competences, member states must respect fundamental rights, which bind them by virtue of their national constitutions and their commitments under international law. all women across the european union should have access to good-quality healthcare and treatment. sexual and reproductive health is integral to our general health. women’s rights are a gauge for the overall situation of fundamental rights. we at the commission will continue to monitor the developments in all member states concerning, in particular, gender equality, and just like the european parliament, we are following the developments in poland particularly closely in that regard.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, last month, the polish constitutional tribunal deemed unconstitutional article 6 of the european convention on human rights, which says that everyone is entitled to a fair and public hearing within a reasonable time by an independent and impartial tribunal. this is the latest assault on the integrity of european and polish rule of law. today, there might be another one. undermining the standards introduced by the convention on human rights (echr) is one of the battlegrounds in the total war against the rights of the citizens. it is a dangerous path to be taken by any democratic state. the european convention on human rights is not just some document. all 27 member states are parties to the convention, and the eu itself is currently negotiating its accession. it is a cornerstone of what a democratic political reality should look like, and it is so happening now that when the norms of democratic politics give way to authoritarianism, it is usually women who are first to suffer. their reproductive rights are questioned and their health is threatened. by issuing its anti-abortion ruling of 2020, the polish tribunal violated the private space protected by article 8 of the echr. the new government proposal to register all pregnancies and miscarriages in a medical information system is straight from orwell. two women are known to have already died in my country as a result of fear induced in doctors by that inhumane ruling. this week, the committee of ministers of the council of europe called on poland to execute the judgments of the strasbourg tribunal on abortions and to ensure effective access to legal abortions and prenatal examinations. in a letter to the polish foreign minister, the secretary-general asked poland to explain how it ensures the effective implementation of its obligations under the convention. we shall call the polish government on that thousands of times, if needed, until it returns to the democratic path.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. on 7 october this year, the polish constitutional court, massively intervened by the ruling party in poland, declared at the request of the minister of justice and attorney general who are the same person that the treaty on european union nothing less is incompatible with the polish constitution, which means that poland and its government no longer feel bound by the primacy of union law over polish law, nor do they feel bound by the common values of article 2, nor by the principles proclaimed in article 3 and the objectives contained in the treaty on european union, which include the area of freedom, security and justice, bound by mutual trust and mutual recognition, which is the only way judicial cooperation between european union member states works. the polish constitutional court - which has been overwhelmingly intervened by the government - declared on 24 november that the european convention on human rights of 1950, which comprises 47 member states, including all the member states of the european union, is also incompatible with the polish constitution. the question is what more can we expect. the conference on the future of europe hears from young people across europe an increasingly insistent question: 'how long are we going to tolerate this challenge that is costing poland a million euro a day in fines as a result of its stubborn failure to comply with the judgments of the courts of justice, both the european court of human rights and the court of justice of the european union?' and they wonder when polexit will happen, given that the european union has no article allowing the expulsion of a government that is clearly challenging the values of the union. and i say to you: that's not a good picture, that's not good news, nobody wants polexit. this european parliament expresses the european citizenship of the 40 million poles and defends it against its government, in defiance of the law of the union. how long, poland?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. - madam president! - i have to go. polish women live in fear. in fear of being forced to give birth to a fetus incapable of surviving. afraid that the oppressive state will register them as pregnant and then prosecute them for miscarriage. afraid that a government official would intervene in their divorce case to protect the sacred institution of the family. these are legitimate concerns based on the further actions and ideas of a power that hates women, lgbtiq people, refugees and asylum seekers, and in turn violates their rights. we don't know who or when the next one will be. i often hear the question, how did this happen? the answer is simple: by inaction, by compromise, by postponing human rights issues. but these ideas are not new. have the previous polish governments made a conscientious assessment? has the european commission made a conscientious assessment? the commission, which is supposed to be the guardian of the treaties, the rule of law and human rights. commissioner, when exactly will the commission finally apply the conditionality regulation? when will it specifically use the other powers available to it to prevent further violations by the polish government?
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. commissioner, i was sad to hear your speech full of half-truths, lies and manipulation and i want to protest strongly. i am speechless when the commissioner, the representative of the european commission, repeats fake news and untruths. you said that three provinces have created lgbt-free zones in poland. please tell me the addresses of the zones in poland that lgbt people are not allowed to enter. and i apologize to the local governments you mentioned. this is far from right. the european commission should be the guardian of the treaties, that is, to ensure that its powers are not exceeded. and you are the one who is going beyond the powers that have been entrusted to you and defined in the treaties. health policy, as well as justice, you should know, is the exclusive competence of the member state. the european commission, which is supposed to be the guardian of the treaties, is brazenly ignoring it. let the european commission take care of you, commissioner dalli, commissioner for inequality and exclusion. there are so many real problems in the european union. please stop humiliating poland and the poles and address the issues that are within your competence, such as speculative emissions trading. and i'm asking you not to disturb me.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis of the rule of law in poland and the attacks on civil rights, which particularly affect women and the lgbtq community, are further alienating the country from common european values. the erosion of the independence of the judiciary and its use as a tool for achieving political objectives has reached such levels, especially with the recent decisions of the polish constitutional court, that the primacy of european union law and the european convention on human rights are being called into question. protests continue over severe restrictions on abortion and the health risks to women, but new proposals from the government are coming, such as the introduction of a centralized registry of pregnancies and miscarriages. the control and punishment of those who do not meet the standards imposed in the field of sexual and reproductive rights is an aberrant plan against which the european union must react strongly. respect for human dignity and fundamental rights cannot be a free zone in any member state.
madam president! the european commission has presented a draft amendment to the migration and asylum rules for poland, latvia and lithuania. he's in such an unacceptable shape. on the eastern border of the union, there are only a few thousand applicants for international protection. there is no need to take any extraordinary measures, just follow the law. the state of emergency, which was imposed on 2 september and unlawfully extended on 1 december, the violation of the rights of hundreds of thousands of people living in border areas, and the humanitarian disaster caused by the exclusion of humanitarian organisations from the zone have contributed to the deaths of dozens of people. the commission's proposed rules will lower the standards for applicants for international protection, which will be arbitrarily decided by a border guard officer. therefore, i object to the provisions that would remove the application of the return directive to persons who have been denied the right to submit an application. this means that these people can be deported to belarus, which is an attempt to legalize the practice of deportation. the commission's support for the polish government's actions amounts to an acceptance of the government's human rights violations and thus undermines the union's core values. i suggest that the commission realistically assess the situation on the polish-belarusian border and i invite you to the border.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. well, it's hard to hide, but thanks to the law and justice government, the hell of women in poland continues. and we have another debate on that today. let us recall that in early december, the polish parliament was working on a bill that would punish abortion, assisted abortion, and miscarriage with 25 years in prison. recently, the law and justice politicians came up with the institute of family and demography. why would you do that? of course, to de facto control, monitor pregnancies and possibly take away further rights. at the same time, the ministry of health is consulting on a draft pregnancy registry, similar to those registries we know from disastrous, dystopian series like "the handbook". this is all happening in 2021 in the heart of the european union. what's the effect? the effect is chilling, chilling to millions of women, girls, mothers who will simply be afraid to get pregnant. we've seen these examples before. we remember these examples. we know the names of women who are also victims of the law and justice policy, when it comes to the violation of women's rights. so i appeal to the european commission: this is another debate in which we are discussing the regression of women's rights. today, women in poland have fewer rights than when poland joined the european union in 2004. it's time to take decisive action.
madam president, patriarchy has always hated women. that is why we had to fight for every single millimetre to have control over our own bodies. that is why we still have to waste so much energy just to get what should actually be obvious: our body, our rights. let us be clear: this whole debate has nothing to do with avoiding abortions. it is all about controlling women’s bodies. it is about the exercise of power. the latest proposals in poland again speak volumes about this. the battle over our bodies and our lives is on again, unfortunately, and we can already see the consequences. two women died in poland just this year. we can already see the chilling effect it has on doctors who did not perform abortions despite the fact that the foetuses were dying, posing a threat to the women’s lives. we will never be silent about tragedies like this, no matter how long it takes. we stand with everyone who defends freedom and fundamental rights.
madam president, commissioner, i wonder: do you really care about unity? so why attack a member state? it is poland that is protecting human rights as they were enshrined in 1948; we are grateful to it for doing so. abortion is not a human right: this perverse interpretation ends the protection that should be provided to us. poland is sovereign to govern according to its laws, and does so while remaining faithful to its faith, culture, and traditions, and also to its own jurisprudence; it is an interference by the union to question the rule of law. poland has already suffered the oppression of ideologies. it is not only protecting itself, it is protecting us all from the degeneration of the culture of death that is being promoted here in the european parliament. life has an absolute value. dear poland, do not give up; gentlemen, think again: the imposition of ideologies is leading to european disunity. i end by wishing you all a merry christmas with your families.
madam president, it is ridiculous that almost no plenary session has passed here lately without a debate on poland. well, perhaps it is frustrating to some of you how our central and eastern european member states, like poland, are confident, successful and stable, and they know what they want, and they are not afraid to make decisions based upon their own competences. they do not need tutoring from the west anymore. maybe that is what you take so badly. you constantly abuse the concept of the rule of law, of democracy, of respect for each other when you attack these governments solely because you have an ideological difference, but that is not the same as a rule of law problem. you have to understand that member states created and maintained a european union and not the other way around. even if some of you dream of a federal europe, well, that is not going to happen if member states do not want it. member states retain the right to organise their educational system, to defend their borders, to organise their judiciary, to decide about family matters, health care issues, etc. these are national competences. so i demand more respect for poland and the polish people.
madam president! when the inhumane sentence was handed down, one of the judges of the constitutional court, professor leon kieres, expressed a different opinion. i would like to quote some of his main thoughts to show once again that this pseudo-judgment of this pseudo-tribunal is incompatible with the polish constitution. because the constitution doesn't give you the right to life. it is a natural law, a natural law, which the state can neither give nor take away. the law, unlike morality or religion, should not require heroism and make demands that go beyond the ordinary, that is, demands that are impossible for the average recipient of these provisions to meet. the constitution requires and recognizes heroism only in the public domain, in wartime, even at the cost of life. but this is not about war, because in the private sphere, the polish constitution guarantees freedom of conscience, freedom of religion and the right to decide on personal life. and the role of the state is to leave the decisions to the people who are directly affected by those decisions. people who will live with the consequences of those decisions for the rest of their lives. i thank my colleagues for their solidarity and i would like to stress once again that there is no conflict between european law and the polish constitution. this is a conflict in which on one side stands european law and the polish constitution, and on the other side stands the polish government, which is breaking the law and breaking the polish constitution.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. there's nothing more valuable than a human life. we in poland are well aware of this and we fight for every human life, with special protection and care for that which cannot make itself known - unborn life. the european union institutions have no right to assess or instruct member states in any way as to how they legally organise the protection of unborn life. union law is clear and transparent on this issue. the court's judgments explicitly refer to the primacy of national law. instead of dealing with the issues that are important to the people of europe, we waste time on debates that, in my opinion, do not make much sense. we are running away from the energy price issue because for the european union institutions it is a direct admission of errors in the energy and climate policy. by remaining silent, we are eliminating the problems of integration of refugees from africa and the middle east. even though there is no logic in this debate, and the commissioner himself says that the eu treaty does not provide for member states to be blamed for this, you are still discussing it. so in closing, however, in a christian way, on the occasion of the approaching christmas season, i wish all of you joy and peace of mind. may the newborn jesus christ give you courage and bless you all!
(start of speech off the microphone)... in the european parliament for several years now. today's debate should be truly alarming, because the polish government is using state institutions to restrict human rights, including such essential rights as depriving women of the ability to decide whether, when and how many children they want to have. this is the daily life of a polish, a european woman. the daily practice is also to violate the independence of the judiciary and to subordinate the constitutional tribunal to the will of the authorities. it is a political court that makes judgments that restrict the human rights deriving from the european conventions and the eu values. it is clear that the european commission's inaction and compromise must be exhausted. it's time for action and principled politics. if that is not possible, the question will be asked more and more often: why poland?
i'm not going to let you get away with this. you have asked me many times here in the european parliament how it is possible that polish society, which is over 80% pro-european, allows governments of lawlessness and injustice. and it's really very simple. in poland, for 30 years there was no proper civic education, but in the government media, propaganda and misinformation have reigned for 6 years. and the pis government is restricting the freedom of the polish people bit by bit. like a bulldozer, it's pushing the country east into the hands of putin. the european parliament does not understand. he doesn't like her. he has a complex about her. in poland, pis is not pronounced mi, unia is pronounced mi and oni. this is a very dangerous phenomenon. we know them from the uk. the last decision of the pseudo-tribunal is the foundation for building the eastern order in poland. the european court of justice is being cut off, and it is in it that polish citizens can seek justice. because instead of citizens, the pis wants to have a population. the people are easier to rule. but it won't go away. strong civil society is a fact in poland. that's what kaczynski is afraid of. and that is where european money should be going, to citizens and local authorities, close to the people, directly.
in writing. we are witnessing how during this plenary session the largest factions of the european parliament are once again pushing for a debate whose title itself is aggressive and has nothing to do with an objective assessment of the facts to once again repeat slander against poland in this forum, to attack a sovereign country and its government just because it stands in defense of inalienable rights and values, which should be guarded by both the ep and the ec. my country is accused of "plans to further undermine fundamental rights", which is already absurd in the title, in an era of such real threats as the development of the covid-19 pandemic or a physical attack on the eu's external borders - real, not imagined. this debate should therefore be interpreted as a deliberate avoidance of important issues that require action. it is easier to attack poland and its government than to prevent an energy crisis in europe, because it would be necessary to admit the wrong policy of speculative trading in co2 emissions. it's easier to put a sovereign state under ideological control than to consider where the death-chants of civilization in this room, who call access to abortion a basic human right, are leading. poland has defended and defends fundamental rights and has always taken care of the health of its citizens, regardless of their gender, religion or beliefs, and please remember that.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. this year, there have been more than 38,000 attempts to cross the polish-belarusian border illegally. in december, there were 838 such attempts. in the past 24 hours, a group of 40 aggressive young men, mostly citizens of iraq and syria, with the support of belarusian intelligence, tried to force our border. i want to emphasize once again: this is not a humanitarian crisis, this is a hybrid war that belarus, with the support of russia, is waging against poland, lithuania and latvia. the best example of this is the fact that the activities of the belarusian services, which helped these illegal migrants to force their way through the polish-belarusian border, were personally supervised by general roman podlinev, deputy head of the belarusian border guard. turning to the council decision on temporary emergency measures at the external border with belarus, i would like to note that while i understand the commission's responsibilities and powers to take a legislative initiative, i am disappointed that the polish side was not able to refer to it at the drafting stage. this only confirms my country's concern that the opinion of the member state directly concerned by the european commission's proposal is not sufficiently taken into account, also in the context of the work on the migration and asylum pact. in my view, such a course of action is not in accordance with the spirit of article 4 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and hinders the adoption of such measures which could have the full support of the council. i am afraid that despite the intention of the proposal itself to stop further waves of migrants from belarus entering the european union, in the end this initiative will prove counterproductive and will ultimately confirm the creation of a new migration route. there are also legitimate concerns that the publication of the decision in this form will encourage further illegal attempts to cross the borders of the european union.
madam president! we are rarely faced with a decision that could be described as the devil's alternative. when we talk about the solution to the situation on the border between belarus and the european union, we are aware that this is not just about the refugee problem. we are talking about acts of state terrorism carried out by the belarusian regime terrorism in which deceived and harmed people seek a better life in europe and are used as weapons. we cannot allow the boundaries of our community to be violated. we cannot allow the regime in belarus, which we do not recognise, and which is unfortunately backed by its allies in moscow, to flout our rights. therefore, special regulation is necessary. but at the same time we must not forget our principles, the fact that europe has supported and continues to support the people who are being harmed and persecuted. a few hours ago, we were awarding the sakharov prize. especially at a time like this, we must remember human rights. special regulations cannot become the norm. we need to develop a sanctions mechanism that makes it so that pushing people across borders is no longer political gold for anyone. it would be an unprofitable and immoral enterprise in every sense. very close to the borders of belarus and the union, in the prince kant said: "the starry sky above me, the moral law within me". any special regulation cannot abolish this moral right, because it is the foundation of the union, of our community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of questions which arise in connection with the temporary emergency measures for the benefit of poland, latvia and lithuania. the proposal does not mention any concrete problems with the asylum systems in these countries, but it does highlight the increased migratory pressure and the humanitarian crisis caused by the actions of the belarusian regime. it is stated that solidarity is to be made operational, but no mention is made of any form of relocation. the possibility of extending the registration of asylum applications for up to four weeks and only at specific points close to the border, as well as the application of border procedures, which may last for 16 weeks, allows the fictio iuris of non-entry for a longer period. the question then arises whether this will result in more de facto detention camps for those seeking international protection and who are victims of political exploitation. the measures seem to be aimed primarily at strengthening border security by facilitating detention and deterrence instruments rather than at sharing responsibilities in the field of asylum fairly between member states.
the respected chairman! my dear colleagues! every day, illegal migrants sent by lukashenko still try to cross the border of belarus with latvia, lithuania and poland. it is an unprecedented aggression against the european union, when a neighbouring country uses its people as weapons. let's not be naive, this is not a refugee crisis, this is a hybrid war. we are doing the right thing by not allowing illegal migrants into the european union! it is the duty of every nation to protect its borders! it is easy enough to criticize border states for those countries in the middle of europe that do not have to worry about border protection. however, all member states should actively help to strengthen the border with belarus, which is also an external border of the european union. european funding should also be used for the construction of the flag, as the physical barrier is the basis of protection. the european commission's proposed interim measures to facilitate the deportation of rejected migrants are a good but insufficient step. legislation should provide for a much broader scope for a robust response to such hybrid attacks, also in the long term. we must also take a firm stand against russia, which is both supporting lukashenko and threatening our comrade ukraine. the kremlin only values the strong positively because western democracies have been unyielding and have unanimously warned of very painful economic sanctions in case of further aggression. hopefully, that will bring the aggressor to his senses and stop him.
mr. chairman, please! two weeks ago, i was at the polish-belarusian border with four meps. we saw people there, left alone, helpless, cold, scared, wandering in the woods. it's indescribable. and not to be shown, because the media cannot freely report on their fate. and they're not freely accessible to humanitarian organizations. fortunately, there are residents and activists who are united in initiatives like the border group. they care about everything. i thank them from the bottom of my heart. and for showing a different, decent side of society. on the other hand, there are those who talk about god and family, but when it comes to witnessing to those values, they let their neighbors sleep in the cold in the woods. i'm not going to do this. i don't agree and i appeal to you, the rulers of poland: get to work, start treating people humanely. the union will help you. the project under discussion identifies the possibilities for support. firstly, frontex, which supports border control. secondly, the easo, to help register and process applications. third, activate the mechanism of protection of the population: tents, beds, heaters for migrants. the union offers opportunities, you just have to seize them.
mr president, the state-sponsored instrumentalisation of migrants against the eu member states and its partners has some history, as russia used it some years against finland and norway, and recently, lukashenko’s belarus against lithuania, latvia and poland. weaponisation of desperate migrants and organising human trafficking becomes a political tool of non-democratic countries to influence democracies through increasing domestic political tensions, heating public debate and imposing additional financial burdens. the eu response in practical measures definitely must be proportional, timely and effective. above all, it must be adequate to the state of emergency activated by some of these member states. again, commissioner, i am absolutely convinced that instrumentalisation of migrants is a crime which qualifies to be punished under the magnitsky human rights sanctions regime. i call on the european commission to come up with the needed proposal with no delay.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. it was not poland, it was the european union that was attacked, but it was not anyone else, but poland itself that once again defended the borders of europe. and you keep saying something about poland: that it can't take care of another person, and that poland still lacks solidarity. i don't know if you know that recently in poland we celebrated another anniversary of the outbreak of the november uprising, which broke out partly because young poles did not want to follow russian orders and suppress the uprising of belgians fighting for freedom. how many of you know about this, how many of you remember it, since you keep blaming the poles for not fighting for values? someone said today that poles lack solidarity. it was the polish solidarity in 1989 that overthrew, destroyed communism. and you, the many immigrants who have nothing to do with europe, who despise our values, you welcome with open arms, and the polish "solidarity", who recently arrived in luxembourg, how did you welcome them? you greeted me with barbed wire. and that's when you really have to think. because europe has a lot to look forward to, and you're trying to destroy this whole civilization, all these values, and build something completely new, something foreign to europe.
mr president, as we speak, an unknown number of people is stuck in the polish-belarusian border zone. but that’s all we know. the polish government still denies any access or help to the victims of lukashenko’s depraved political games. suspension of asylum rules, though, is not the answer. poland should accept easo and frontex assistance instead. did you get guarantees, commissioner, that in return for the extra funding you propose they will start processing asylum requests of people that have reached, or will reach, polish soil, as they are obliged to? i have been a staunch supporter of reinforced sanctions against lukashenko since the summer. you’ll find me on your side. but regarding what we do on our side of the border, i hope to hear a few reflections of humanity, compassion and real solidarity. is that too much to ask?
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, since this will be the last engagement under the slovenian presidency, let me thank the minister for his work, and minister, please transmit to all your colleagues in my areas of competence – home affairs, skills, culture, education, sport, youth – my thanks for the great work done by the slovenian presidency. honourable members, i have listened to your views very carefully. thank you for that, i appreciate your input, and i would like also to start by saying that i find some part of the criticism that we received totally unjustified, and if i may say so, contradictory. mr kofod and his friends accused us of basically letting everybody in, and from the other side of the spectrum, we are accused of legalising pushbacks and keeping everybody out. obviously, these two things cannot happen at the same time, and none of these things happened at the same time actually, because none of this happened at all. what we are trying to do, and i think it was very clear in my opening statement, is, with this article 78(3) procedure, respond to a specific request that the commission got from the heads of state or government to do something under the exceptional circumstances of a major hybrid threat and attack that concerns three of our member states that were in urgent need of solidarity. article 78(3) is not an arbitrary procedure. it is grounded in eu law. it’s part of our constitution, of our primary law. it’s in the treaty. so there is nothing arbitrary by someone who discovers or wakes up in the morning and tries to set up an ad hoc exceptional procedure. it is in the treaty. it is grounded in eu law, and i feel very comfortable when i base action on the basis of the treaties. it would have been the contrary that would worry me in particular. having said that, i am the first to admit, and i said it, that this is an exceptional situation, an exceptional procedure. under no circumstances should this be seen as the new normal. it will not be the new normal for the very simple reason that we do not do migration policy through exceptional measures. we want to do migration policy with a major european agreement under the new eu pact for migration and asylum. that’s what we need. we don’t have it yet. i’m confident we will get it. also, with the support of this house. in between, because the term ‘instrumentalisation’ is not only a term that we discovered just like that: it’s happening. and the term does not concern, of course, the poor people who are freezing in the forest. the term concerns the collusion of international smuggling networks with a regime that is using them to attack the european union. i was there. i knew, i saw in iraq that the council of belarus was actually the central point that was marketing the whole visa regime. so this has nothing to do with the people. it has to do with those who want to attack us, and it has to do with what we will do to prevent other people attacking us in the future. precisely because this house has a role to play on migration policy, and to move beyond the exceptionality of article 78(3), we have proposed yesterday in the schengen border code, a new system that would allow for a more orderly management of accelerated procedures in terms of instrumentalisation. parallel to that, it is the european union that is leading any effort to organise humanitarian assistance on the ground. it is the european union that finances the iom and the unhcr to provide shelter to the most vulnerable. it is the european union that finances the return flights of the most vulnerable so that they can start their lives back in their countries of origin, and it is the european union that is already helping with readmission help to those who want to start a new life. i would like again to stress that this procedure, article 78(3), is not a normal migratory procedure. this is an emergency situation, and this is something that we are called to counter. it will not stop. we will face it in the future, too, and it is in a situation where the european union should also be seen able to counter these attacks, to have something to say to those who want to attack us. and we will do that with the force of eu law, with the force of this parliament, of the council, of primary law. we will not do it under any sort of arbitrary procedures, and we should not forget that since we are discussing article 78(3), that this is also a time-limited period of six months that only affects three member states. so with this proposal, we’re showing in practice that those member states which feel they need the help, the solidarity of the european union, will get it. we have done so in the past, and we will do so whenever challenged again in the future.
the chairman of the council. mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been given a very important role in the european union. as we have seen in recent weeks, a determined and comprehensive crackdown on the belarusian regime, which exploits migrants for political purposes, is beginning to bear fruit. through joint diplomatic efforts, we have also succeeded in breaking up part of the migrant smuggling network that was leading only those migrants to belarus. the member states most affected by these hybrid attacks must continue to receive our strong support. at the same time, we must protect our european values and respond to the humanitarian needs of the people who are being brutally exploited by the belarusian regime, including by working to enable them to return home. the eu must continue to support its member states. under no circumstances should we allow democratic values to be undermined. we must act decisively to alleviate the situation on the border with belarus, while ensuring that such or similar unconscionable acts are not repeated by third parties. it is clear that we need to take a holistic approach to combating hybrid threats and mitigating their potential impact on the security of the european union and its citizens. in this process of finding a long-term solution, we also need intensive interinstitutional cooperation. the council will continue to work towards a constructive dialogue. i would like to thank all members and the european commission for the good cooperation during the slovenian presidency, given that this is my last appearance before the european parliament. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament's budgetary powers are fully exercised. that's it. merry christmas and good luck in your future endeavors. - thank you. - thank you.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. the issue of the exploitation of refugees at the eu's eastern border is a problem that we have not been able to resolve for many months. poland, lithuania and latvia need the support of the union, but the proposal for emergency measures discussed today could have very inhumane consequences. under european law, refugees can apply for international protection to the guards they encounter. however, the commission's proposal is designed to change this. it is hard to imagine how we can expect a person who wants to apply, a person who has been living in the forest for months, starving and freezing, on the verge of exhaustion, to be able to reach the nearest application point, which may be 20 or 30 kilometers away? what the commission calls 'more orderly handling of notifications' will in practice mean fewer notifications and even more graveyards in the border forests. there is also a serious controversy over the possibility of speeding up the border procedure, which is actually an endorsement of, for example, the polish exit system, through which the polish government, contrary to international standards, gets rid of migrants by preventing them from re-entering the territory. the eu's white-gloves project that we are discussing here is an attempt to get rid of the problem, without regard for our fundamental values, which include respect for human dignity and human rights.
in writing. the migration crisis with belarus is therefore back on the agenda for this plenary session. i had already warned about the arrival of migrants through this route in 2019. it is regrettable that common sense measures, such as the building of physical barriers, are rejected by the european commission. the proposals we have today concern the extension of the deadlines for registering asylum applications and the acceleration of return procedures. all this is commendable, but unfortunately it is far from sufficient. this wait-and-see attitude in the face of the migration disaster is all the more damaging as the european ship now takes on water from all sides. in the south, bosnia and herzegovina is facing a never-ending crisis, with the same human tragedies every winter. and this is despite the fact that more than 80 percent of those arriving in this country are economic migrants who will never be granted refugee status. recently, a new aid package of €2.5 million was announced. in addition, in 2012, a study commissioned by the european parliament already warned of the infiltration of islamists via this route. for our citizens, the migration crisis is therefore a major security risk.
in writing. poland and the baltic states, when defending their own borders, also protect the external borders of the union, fulfilling their obligations as member states. we hungarians, as we have done so far, will continue to help our polish friends to stop the mass illegal migration at the external borders. the european commission would not help to protect the external borders this time either, but would continue to manage migration. and in 2015, the hungarian border fence showed that mass illegal migration can be stopped. europe can only be safe with strong external borders, and the union must finally change its permissive migration policy, which for years has been seen as ineffective, and instead finance the creation of physical barriers. their effectiveness is obvious. so far, hungary has spent more than 590 million forints to stop migrants at the southern border of the union. it is time for brussels to contribute to our efforts and costs.
in writing. the european commission has presented a draft amendment to the migration and asylum rules for poland, lithuania and latvia. he's in such an unacceptable shape. on the eastern border of the union, there are only a few thousand applicants for international protection. there is no need to take any extraordinary measures, just respect the law. the state of emergency, which was imposed on 2 september and illegally extended on 1 december, violates the rights of hundreds of thousands of people living in border areas. a humanitarian disaster caused by the exclusion of humanitarian organizations from the zone has contributed to the deaths of dozens of people. the commission's proposed rules will lower the standards for applicants for international protection, which will be arbitrarily decided by a border guard officer. the commission has also proposed that the provisions of the return directive be amended to include the right to return for persons who have been refused the right to apply for a return decision. this means that these people can be deported to belarus, which is an attempt to legalize the practice of deportation. the commission's support for the polish government's actions amounts to an acceptance of the government's human rights violations and undermines the union's core values. the eppo pointed out that belarus is not a safe third country to which nationals of other countries applying for international protection can be sent. the commission and the council cannot ignore these facts in their further work on the project. the commission should make a realistic assessment of the situation on the polish-belarusian border.
the increase in fuel prices has been a constant over the past year. we could list a number of internal and external factors which have led to this rapid increase, but i think the most important thing is to ensure that all european citizens, regardless of where they live, whether or not public services are available, are not deprived of the use of cars, airplanes or trains because they cannot bear the costs associated with fuel or new taxes. the solution for countries like portugal is not the train over the plane or vice versa. the solution is to create sustainable mobility of all modes of transport, according to the characteristics of each territory. the energy transition and the focus on sustainable mobility will penalize the most polluting vehicles to discourage their use. we must therefore ensure that european citizens have support measures to avoid social exclusion for those living in sparsely populated areas, in island regions and in the outermost regions. we have long been calling on the commission to approve a posei in transport and energy, which is central to regions of my country such as madeira and the azores, supporting the extra costs of transport for people and goods and also serving the inland territories of portugal deprived of other means of transport than the road. the cost of this transition will fall mainly on the citizens, on the middle class. it is therefore urgent that we work together to ensure that temporary measures, support and delegations are put in place so that transport poverty levels are not reached.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the transition we have been working on for some time may be unfair, that is to say, it may generate social costs that exceed the value it produces. we must prevent this contradiction from occurring. how can this be avoided? we have found that there are some very welcome attempts by the commission, for example the establishment of a social climate fund to offset the increased costs, but the risk of that instrument, as someone said before me, is that it is rather contradictory. why would you do that? because the resources that feed it are determined by tools that very often are the same tools that have caused the cost increase. a certain way of re-designing the ets, for example, is a very technical question but not without significance. so the energy mix that we often talk about, the technology mix that we often talk about, is the only solution, so that the social impact of this ambitious transition does not become such that it turns the green deal that we're talking about into an experiment on the skin of families, on the skin of the most vulnerable in society. the technology mix, technology neutrality is the solution to make the cost of transition sustainable, as are our environmental ambitions.
mr. president, if we make the price of gasoline two euros, we won't save the environment. if we put a carbon tax on airline tickets, we're not going to improve air quality, we're going to take people off planes. it's very easy to talk about solar energy, wind energy, but in the summer. now in the winter we all heat with coal and gas, including this room right now. i see the birth of a new type of politician, i call them helicopters, because they soar in the clouds, they occasionally land on earth, they make a little noise and dust in people's eyes, and then they fly away again. they must know that they will meet the reasonable resistance of all of us who still walk the earth and talk to people. i believe in the market. and when electric cars become good enough, and better than conventional cars, people will start buying them themselves, and without having to vote in this room. when technology allows us to harness the power of the sun and wind for almost nothing, i assure you, no one will go down to dig anything underground. that's it. everything else is an illusion. and the bills are high. often in combination.
mr president, mr commissioner, mobility is essential for the daily lives of european citizens, of course for employees, service providers, for ordinary citizens. in 2016, the average citizen in europe walked 36 kilometers a day, which is quite a significant distance. but it is becoming increasingly clear that today's transportation system is not sustainable. for a variety of reasons: emissions, environmental impact, human health, of course. alarmingly, over 80% of this transport is by car, which of course implies major social and economic impacts. i would like to mention a few dimensions of transport poverty in this context. first, people don't have the means to use this transport. states or regions are not investing enough in alternative modes of transport, which are more affordable and, of course, also more environmentally friendly. and there's really no good access to those destinations for shopping, for medical care, for work, of course. what do we need? of course, collecting data on where and how much of a problem there is. i want to emphasize, for example, that transportation in cities is about six times more accessible than in the countryside. we cannot afford to tolerate this discrimination any longer. and of course there's room for the european commission. in this respect, it could help facilitate the transfer of good policy solutions between member states, regions and local authorities. merry christmas to everyone from prague.
member of the commission. – mr president, it is, as usual, a pleasure to listen to colleagues here in the house and you are all very much up with the times with your debates, and i can see what is worrying you. it is worrying what is going on right now in europe with energy prices but we have to be aware and differentiate a bit between what is actually transport policy and what is the global market and other global effects on the issue. what is interesting, and was raised by you, is to discuss the cumulative effects of various measures in the fit for 55 package, which are beyond transport policies directly. the truth is that the commission’s modelling estimates the cumulative effects of the different policy proposals over time. this is true not only for cost but also for benefits, such as important air quality or reduced fossil fuel import bills. importantly, as the modelling has shown, the proposed measures interact and stress on each other. so the right mix of policies lessens the possible negative impacts and enables greater ambition. road transport provides an example of this dynamic at work. improving co2 standards for cars and vans will ensure the supply of low emission vehicles. a mix of taxation and carbon pricing provides incentives for the purchase of low emission vehicles, ensuring demand. and finally, providing support for installing charging infrastructure will ensure that the transition is feasible. so this would be the plan that explains the package. let’s hope that the market also will kick in somewhere in all this story, and then we will have a more natural and solid transition. what are we doing in transport to address the complexity of the issues brought about by the transition? this is highlighted in the smart and sustainable mobility strategy. you discussed it and you looked at the basket of measures i was proposing and you said it was ok, because it is for the transition, it is for each mode, it is for multimodality. we are adding brick by brick to this construction of the sustainable future of transport, the last one being yesterday with the ten-t regulation. so i trust that if we are discussing and approaching it from all angles, looking at the threats but also the benefits, looking at the costs but also at where we can reduce the costs in other parts, it might in the end come to a positive result. the emissions trading system (ets) was discussed in particular. it’s true that the ets is proposed for roads and buildings and this is something new. and of course, we don’t want to create an effect which would lead to poverty in transport for people because of the increase in prices. the measure envisaged by the commission was the creation of the social climate fund, which will channel around 25% of auction revenues from the new ets to counter energy and transport poverty. the fund will support measures and investments intended to grant improved access to zero- and low-emission mobility and transport. member states are also able to give temporary direct support to vulnerable households to absorb the ets immediate price impact – indeed, from their budgets, in answer to mr marinescu, where else from? the commission, also proposes that the member states dedicate all revenues from the existing and the new ets to these climate-related purposes. and i know very well that in this house, each time we agree on taxes or put a price on the externalities, we ask that the money collected will go towards innovation and green policies so that the cost of these externalities will be reduced over time. apart from the social climate fund, all the others, as i said in my initial speech – the social fund, the just transition fund, the cohesion fund – are all envisaged to support this transition and the eventual impact of the ets on buildings and roads. but the ball is in your court and i’m looking forward to your debate in the european parliament on this topic. we are here as a commission to support this debate and look forward to a good outcome from it. in transport policy, in particular, if you look at all the measures, a basket of measures we are proposing in our strategy, you will see that it all makes sense for a solid transition towards more sustainable and smart transport.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. poverty and inequality in transport, raises a central issue in planning the green transition, which must be fair and inclusive for all. complex environmental challenges inevitably intersect with social challenges in the context of transport availability and accessibility, emission reduction and dependence on fossil fuels. the increase in transport costs, as well as the lack or absence of public services to facilitate mobility, have a significant impact on the daily lives of citizens who depend on them most, and can be a barrier to access to healthcare, education and employment. the need to facilitate mobility and improve connections is felt especially in rural, peripheral and island areas. considerable resources will be required to address the social impact of the green deal on low-income households, micro-enterprises and transport users. moreover, given that the ten-t network should ensure economic, social and territorial cohesion, accessibility and connectivity of all areas of the eu, including the most remote ones, thereby stimulating their development and reducing inequalities, it is necessary to update the methodology used to achieve those objectives accordingly.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the european year of railways (2021/3016 (rsp)). i would remind members that there are no spontaneous speeches in any of the debates of this session and that no blue cards are accepted. as in the past, parliament will also be able to receive contacts from its liaison offices in the member states. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time.
member of the commission. – mr president, one year ago i addressed this european parliament plenary to thank you for your support to adoption of the decision to declare 2021 the european year of rail. one year later, i’m very happy to be with you again to take stock of what we have achieved and to outline what the year has delivered. as the end of the european year of rail is approaching, i can confidently say that there is a strong appetite for rail in europe. despite the covid—19 pandemic, the european year of rail has been welcomed with great enthusiasm by the sector and beyond. so far, we have received more than 350 proposals for events and activities. the connecting europe express, a dedicated train that travelled across europe in september and october, visiting 26 countries in 36 days, has been one of the main highlights of the year. it truly lived up to its name, as it brought together national, regional and local authorities, society at large and the rail sector. it encouraged more than 40 partners from the sector to join forces to set up an unprecedented pan—european rail service, clearly showing that europe is stronger together. at every one of the more than 200 stops along the journey, we were welcomed with great enthusiasm by national, regional, local authorities, stakeholders and citizens, including some of you. we also collected one or more flags at each of these stops, which means that by the moment we reached our end destination in paris, we had gathered more than 200 flags. so what a beautiful way to symbolise the unifying power of railways in europe. however, the connecting europe express also illustrated very well the many obstacles rail still faces and needs to overcome to become the preferred mode of transport. ideally, the connecting europe express should have been one single train, but the lack of interoperability between some parts of the european network meant that we had to have three different trains to fit the different gauges used in europe. and this is only one part of the story, as our journey across europe highlighted many other issues that we still need to address to fully benefit from rail’s sustainability potential. so, my takeaway from the year of rail is that we need more and better rail. as to make rail more attractive, we need to make rail more reliable, flexible and cost—effective, which is not possible without further innovation and digitalisation. i’m happy, therefore, that in november, the council adopted the regulation establishing europe’s rail joint undertaking, the successor of shift2rail. at eu level, the lessons learned from the connecting europe express have already fed into our proposals to boost the rail sector. yesterday, we presented the action plan to boost passenger rail services. this plan builds on efforts by member states to make key connections between cities faster, through better managing infrastructure capacity, coordinating timetables, pooling locomotives, coaches and wagons, and improving infrastructure to make new train services possible. yesterday, in the same package, we also adopted a proposal for the revision of the ten-t guidelines and the rail freight corridors regulation. our proposal aims to ensure a stronger link between good infrastructure and good capacity, creating true european transport corridors for rail. in the ten-t revision, we also build in stronger coordination of investments and the removal of operational obstacles for both rail freight and passengers. and we will continue focusing on rail in our future works, as we will be preparing the green freight package for the end of 2022, in which rail will also play a prominent role. it will be our contribution to make sure that the momentum continues beyond the european year of rail. so thank you very much for your attention and your support during this year full of events.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, the european year of the railways was more than a good idea. the public at large has discovered the train as a key agent against climate change. it has brought together operators and key players to ensure that high-speed passenger transport triples by 2050 and freight by 2050. continuing this initiative means that the next generation funds support innovation and digitalisation in the sector; it obliges states and community authorities to meet their commitments and complete within the deadline the works that must make the trans-european transport networks an interoperable and bottleneck-free reality; and it encourages the rapid deployment of the ertms control system, key to technological interoperability and network and traffic management. the fourth railway package must be implemented, the regulations that fragment the european railway market must be abolished and railways must be supported with the same energy as airlines. because the rail transport sector, because of the pandemic, has lost 50 billion euros in two years. this work programme will enable users, who this year have gained rights from the union, to enjoy trains that are increasingly comfortable, punctual, fast, economical, accessible and with the green label that makes choosing the train an act of militancy for the future of the planet.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the year of the train is coming to an end and it is time to talk about results. results not only of the communication operation of the interconnection mechanism in europe, but also of the relaunch of rail in europe. and that's where the results are! we can no longer just take small steps. it's still worth remembering that we are facing a climate emergency that will hit us hard if we do nothing or not enough. yes, the train is at the crossroads of climate, social, employment and european integration. it deserves ambitious action by the commission and the member states. the train is 15 times less polluting than the airplane for transporting both passengers and goods. the train is the lever for the reindustrialisation of europe tomorrow. clearly, this is a good way to do things for the climate and for jobs. it will take us much more than a year to put the industrial strategy in place and the funding it deserves. but i'm saying tonight, this is where it all starts. no more night trains all over europe, no more rail freight, that's now! we laid the first rails; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the railway infrastructure, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take part in the discussions on this matter. so, colleagues, the train is the transport of the future. let's not stay on the platform, let's get on the train for the future.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, in the european year of railways i accepted your challenge to travel by train from lisbon to strasbourg. three days of travel, six trains, 57 hours. this trip demonstrates that your propaganda has no adherence to reality. the abolition of international links from portugal, representing an unacceptable step backwards of 130 years, is a sign of the process of liberalization and harmonization imposed by the european union on the railways, which is paving the way for the concentration of operations to the extent of the large multinationals and contributing to the degradation of international, regional and local links, which the divestment of successive governments has brought about. the railways, as a structural element of territorial cohesion and the promotion of mobility, require a national public response that responds first of all to the needs of the population and development of each country, providing for long-term investments in the renewal of the fleet with national incorporation in the technological and productive side, the strengthening or replacement of links, the increase in supply, the reduction of fares.
mr. chairman, please! the year 2021 is the european year of railways, an initiative that promotes this particular means of transport. but there are places in europe where you don't have to convince anyone, like the silesian metropolis. commuting by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by train, by by train, etc. and i'm proud of that. unfortunately, we as a union are still not spending enough on rail infrastructure. we still have trains without air conditioning, and instead of stations, we have a strip of concrete in a field. and i'm talking about the whole of europe. security, please. we often hear that the most dangerous neighborhoods in cities are those around the train station. katowice, the upper silesian town where i was born, has shown in a remarkable way that an unfriendly place can be turned into one of the most beautiful and safest railway stations. take the example of the silesian capital in the whole of the union. finally, it is not necessary to promote the railways to encourage europeans to take them. but you have to invest in the railway, the railways, the trains, the stations. this is the heart of the european year of railways, a year that should last all year.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for all their comments. i’m pleased to note their enthusiasm and support for the european year of rail, not just as a showcase for what rail means and will be in our lives in europe, but as an essential part of our transport system. regarding the next steps, when we talk about the passengers, night trains included, you have seen in the action plan we launched yesterday that we have identified a series of actions on which we are going to act in the coming years in order to boost long-distance rail for passengers. that includes, of course, the night train, as long as the project promoters would like it and public service obligations kick in as is intended and has been announced in some member states. regarding concrete action for what’s going to happen next year, we will have a revised regulatory framework for train drivers, regulatory action to improve the capacity allocation and the traffic management process, guidelines for setting truck access charges that support long—distance and cross-border passenger services, a new regulation on multimodal digital mobility services for ticketing, assessment of the need for an eu—wide vat exemption for international trade services, and so on and so forth, together with the eso regulation and interpretive guidelines. so we have a wealth of action identified and ready to discuss for the future of rail. coming back with a word on the last finale of the european year of rail, we are working on the last event. it will most likely take place in the context of the european rail summit, organised by cnse on 21 february under the umbrella of the french presidency. in addition, as announced in the european year of rail decision, we will work on its evaluation and report back to the other european institutions. i think that this evaluation report will again be an opportunity for you – and for us actually – to reflect on the feedback received in the various events and activities organised during this year. just a word on the fact that next year is the european year of youth. the link between young people and rail is very important, on one hand because they are huge supporters of this more sustainable mode of transportation, but, on the other hand, because the transport sector needs more young people to join its workforce. our rail companies are world champions and a valuable source of jobs and growth in the eu, but rail is currently facing an ageing challenge with a large share of its employees expected to retire. so i hope that the european year of youth next year will also be used by transport people as a great opportunity to talk about the opportunities and attract young people to professions in this sector. thank you very much. i wish you a merry christmas and a happy new year.
thank you very much, commissioner. we also wish you and all our colleagues a very happy and blessed christmas and all the best for the year of the young people by rail. the debate is closed.
the meeting is closed and will resume tomorrow, thursday 16 december 2021, at 9.00 a.m. with the request for an oral reply to the commission on the topic metoo and harassment impact in the eu institutions. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the oral question by mrs evelyn regner, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on 'metoo and harassment: consequences for the eu institutions' (o-000074/2021 - b9-0045/21) (2021/2986 ((rsp)). i would like to inform you that for all the debates of this part-session there will be no catch-the-eye procedure and that no blue-card questions will be accepted. as in recent sessions, there is also provision for remote intervention by the parliament's liaison offices in the member states. i would also remind you that the speeches in the chamber will continue from the main stage. so i would ask you to follow the list of speakers and come to the podium when your turn to speak is near.
author. – mr president, gender equality is a core value of the european union, yet the many debates in this plenary week and around it have made it clear we are still far from achieving it. we are indeed in a crisis, not only a sanitary one, a crisis of women and their rights. women’s rights have to be a priority on everyone’s political agenda, also within the european parliament and the other european institutions. we are not only an important political institution, we are also a workplace for thousands of people. and as a workplace, one thing is essential: respect. respect between all of us, no matter the function or hierarchy. and this is why the committee on women’s rights and gender equality has tabled this oral question and drafted the resolution on metoo and harassment in general. it is not the first resolution on the topic. we already had two previous ones in 2017 and 2019. harassment is still widespread in the european union. we know that 90% of victims of sexual harassment are women and that sexual harassment is affecting 55% of all women in the european union. this is more than a quarter of the population, and this number is higher when you ask women in the services sector, namely 61%, and rises to 75% of women working in top management or high-qualification jobs. in addition, we also know that harassment is significantly under-reported, meaning numbers could be even worse than this. so this is why in the resolution we call on the council to finally unblock the istanbul convention. the court of justice recently confirmed that there is no legal obligation to wait on such an important topic like gender-based violence. the council finally has to move; a workplace has to be safe, and harassment is a matter of health and safety, of workplace culture and of human rights. we need to ensure that in the european parliament we have zero tolerance towards any form of harassment, that victims are supported and know where to go and that perpetrators face consequences. in two previous resolutions, we had already called for mandatory anti-harassment trainings, but so far they were only voluntary and, shamefully, only a quarter of all members have participated in one of these basic trainings. we can and we will have to do better than this. the first step? more languages so our members can participate in their native language and targeted outreach and in addition, a public list on the european parliament’s website of those members who are a positive example since they already did the training and, crucially, finally making these trainings mandatory for members, because apparently voluntary measures are not enough. this does not interfere with our free mandate. on the contrary, we ask to be decent human beings towards our employees, so who would oppose that? the details of possible legally sound consequences will have to be discussed in detail and one might be to limit the recruitment of staff because it’s not assured that the staff would be safe. furthermore, we need to run an awareness-raising campaign and prevent any kind of retaliations against complaints, victims, witnesses and whistle-blowers. and in this regard, the resolution also calls for training for all levels of staff and an independent evaluation on the existing mechanisms and bodies. this includes an external audit, as already foreseen in the budget 2021, and, key here is also often transparency. we know that the european commission is reviewing its anti-harassment policy and in view of this, the three following questions are included in today’s oral question to the commission. what are the main elements of the anti-harassment strategies of the commission and other european union institutions and agencies? are there any best practices on preventing conflict and harassment in the workplace and on good office management that could be applied throughout all institutions? and, is training on the prevention of sexual harassment mandatory at the commission and other european union institutions and agencies? let me conclude with the following statement. anyone can be affected by harassment –members, the political staff, the administrative staff. it happened to me, it happened to some assistants and it happened to staff members i know. so we all should be protected in case of harassment, but even more so, we should be allowed to work without such a violation of our human rights. we all have the right to a safe and healthy workplace. we, as the european parliament, could become a good example for other institutions and support them with creating and implementing anti-harassment measures, as well as gender action plans. it’s high time we treat each other respectfully. it’s high time we eradicate any form of harassment.
member of the commission. – mr president, today’s debate touches upon a topic that is of the utmost political importance for the commission. the debate is also very timely because, as ms regner said, as we continue to review the commission’s internal rules and policy on the prevention and fight against harassment, this review is an opportunity to reflect back on the experience gained since the prohibition of harassment was introduced in the staff regulations back in 2004. the metoo movement has provided further impetus for change in the workplace, as have the new ways of working that we have all witnessed since the start of the pandemic. we will listen and learn from today’s debate. staff serving in any of our institutions expect and deserve to be treated with respect. commission staff can access redress mechanisms, which comprise informal, as well as formal, processes: informal with the support of a network of confidential counsellors and the commission mediator, and also the formal complaints procedure. the commission also organises training courses on recognising and addressing harassment. these courses are open to all staff, including from other institutions and agencies. these courses provide staff with a better understanding of the dynamics of harassment, both sexual and psychological, both online and offline, as well as with practical guidance on how, and to whom, to report such behaviour. the commission is currently reviewing its decision from 2006 so as to take account of the experience gained since then in the management of the policy developments in the case law, the metoo movement, best practices across institutions, and the particularities of the post-pandemic working environment. the commission expects to adopt a new decision on the prevention and fight against harassment in 2022, so next year. in line with the principle of institutional autonomy, the different institutions and agencies adopt their own policies and processes to combat harassment. with full respect for this principle, it is also important that we continue to exchange our experiences across the institutions about the different ways of tackling this phenomenon. in this context, the workshop organised by the european parliament’s committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on 21 may 2021, entitled, ‘three years after #metoo – what needs to be done?’ was an excellent opportunity for staff involved in policies to combat harassment in the institutions, including from the commission, to come together to hear how others are tackling this type of behaviour. the commission welcomes and encourages further exchanges of this type, and we thank parliament for such initiatives.
on behalf of the s&d group. a clear message must be sent from this place today: no tolerance for sexual harassment and violence wherever it occurs: on the street, at work, at school or in this house. because the secret of the police station is that not all workers feel safe in the corridors of this house, that sexual harassment and violence can happen anywhere, including in the temple of european democracy. unfortunately, today, in this debate, we have another example of sexual harassment, violence, discrimination being talked about mostly by women. of the 21 people speaking today, only four are men, and two of them will probably be singing the old song again about how violence doesn't exist, that harassment and sexual violence, where 90 percent of the victims are women and it affects 30 percent of women, that it's all made up. unfortunately, the reality is that one in three women in the european union has experienced some form of physical or sexual assault since the age of 15. unfortunately, many boys and many men still don't understand that "no" means "no". but we are not only the perpetrators, we are also the victims. so in this whole discussion, we need to have a special education for boys and men, so that we can finally understand that "no" really means "no". and i would like to make a special appeal to my colleagues here today to use this important instrument. i myself have completed such training in the european parliament on violence prevention, on harassment in the workplace. unfortunately, very few of us have completed this course. i would also like to appeal to my colleagues in the european commission. today, the education, the workshops that the commission organizes are not enough. today we need real action. i would like to finally work in a workplace where i don't have to worry about how my coworkers, my colleagues, are treated. today, i'm not sure they're safe in this place.
mr. chairman, please! once again, we in the european parliament are discussing the problems and tragedies that affect women. it's very sad because it shows how difficult it is to change social attitudes and social permissions and how much courage it takes to say "me too". the courage of some gives courage to others. i think that the metoo movement and the global campaign that showed the scale and the prevalence of sexual harassment of women, the courage of women on the front pages of newspapers who said "me too", gave courage to other women, also here in the european parliament and in the eu institutions. it would seem that every public figure, politician, employer, or supervisor should know where the joke ends and the harassment begins, where that thin line is. but the research and the data show a sad picture. they show that the perpetrator always defends and protects the perpetrator, that the victim is often blamed, and that having power and not being held accountable embolden the perpetrators. i agree with those in this house who say that there can be no tolerance, either here in parliament or in the institutions or on the road or at work or anywhere else, for a woman to feel uncomfortable and for someone to have permission to harass her. i support mandatory training because i believe it is our duty to do everything we can to prevent such situations. but we also have to be aware that training alone is not enough if there is no social criticism of the person and if there are no consequences, both professional and social, that the perpetrators will suffer. and taking advantage of the fact that this is the last day of parliament's deliberations before christmas, i would like to wish all the inhabitants of my podkarpackie, a difficult region, my country poland and all the inhabitants of europe a healthy and peaceful christmas and joy and hope in the new year.
before we continue with the debate, i shall proceed to the opening of the first vote today. we shall vote on the items on the agenda. the vote will take place from 9.45 a.m. to 11.00 a.m. the same voting method as in previous elections will be used. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i declare the first ballot open. you can vote until 11:00. the results of the first vote will be announced at 1 p.m.
the debate is now resumed on the oral question by mrs evelyn regner, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on 'metoo and harassment: consequences for the eu institutions' (o-000074/2021 - b9-0045/21) (2021/2986 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, four years ago the metoo movement was spreading around the world thanks to the strength and determination of a few women who decided to denounce harassment and abuse by men in power. so i want to say clearly, once again, in this house, once again to the colleagues who deny it: it's true, not all men are harassers, of course, but all harassment that women receive is caused by men. that is the truth and that is the truth we must start from. then came the time when they tried to diminish the value of this collective complaint with the cry of "if i asked for it", "don't overdo it with complaints, don't overdo it with metoo", "if some women were harassed it is because they gave the idea that they were available". we have had to listen to discussions about why, even after a few years, the courage to denounce women was found, and this too, ladies and gentlemen, shows once again how tragically women are still twice as much victims. victims the first time, when they're abused, when they're molested, when they're annihilated, when they're raped, and victims the second time, when they're judged for how they dress, what they say, how they have fun, and even if they haven't found the strength to report a trauma immediately. but here, in the house of democracy, we wanted to add our voice to the thousands of women who have reported cases of violence and abuse. it is important, ladies and gentlemen, that the european institutions make their voice heard loud and clear in support of all those who, by their complaints, have opened up a debate which is absolutely necessary. then let's say it together, loud and clear, metoo!
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament should be a model in protecting its staff against harassment. unfortunately, that's not the case. still, three years after metoo, the victims are not coming forward for help. they don't believe in the effectiveness of procedures. they're afraid of being second-guessed, afraid of losing their jobs. for over 20 years, as a lawyer in ngos, as a legislator in public administration, as a deputy attorney for civil rights, i have stood up for victims of discrimination, violence, harassment. i know i'm not alone here, and many of my colleagues from almost all political parties are calling for the necessary changes to effectively protect workers. but if you all don't take harassment seriously, not as a secondary problem, as a private matter, the victims will be left to fend for themselves. if you don't take harassment seriously, you'll be siding with the perpetrators.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that we are in the 21st century, in the midst of a real biodiversity crisis, with entire populations of wild animals literally disappearing. lions, tigers, elephants, zebras, reptiles, the list is endless. we are not talking about the european parliament, but about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament, and we are talking about the european parliament. perhaps all of this is subsidized by public funding from national ministries of culture as cultural and entertainment activities. is this entertainment? is it culture? is this the educational message we want to give and convey to the young? that wild animals belong in a tent in an urban center and not in the wild? no, gentlemen, this is not a spectacle, it is barbarism and has no place in the european union. a european ban on the use of animals in circuses is needed, as demanded by over a million european citizens who have signed a petition to say enough is enough with this unnecessary suffering. the national bans introduced by some member states are not enough as long as there are still states like my own, italy, where there is no restriction of any kind on the use of wild animals in circuses, which will allow this business to continue and survive. the commission must not hide behind a phantom lack of competence in this area. the european union can act and therefore has a moral obligation to do so.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. over a million citizens have signed a petition to ban the use of wild animals in circuses. wild animals in circuses are forced to perform various so-called circus tricks, which are very painful to train, and the ways in which they are trained do not justify the use of wild animals in circuses. certainly the welfare of wild animals is not preserved in circuses. it is important to emphasize that the use of wild animals in circuses has no educational or cultural value. torturing animals in the 21st century to have elephants, zebras, tigers perform tricks is simply unethical. forcing these animals to behave in ways that are unnatural is simply barbaric.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. that's the unnatural behavior that we train wild animals with extremely violent training methods under the guise of entertainment. and when the animals are not allowed to perform, they are locked in cages that are too small or chained to their trailers and isolated. they are not allowed to move, there is no way for them to exert their natural behaviour and, moreover, the animals are stressed and one by one they exhibit aberrant or even dangerous behaviour. on top of that, there are the many and long transports. this is pure animal suffering. we're talking about animals, living beings with consciousness and feeling, not accessories, toys or products to entertain people. i am therefore pleased that 1 million citizens have called for a european ban on the use of wild animals in circuses. 23 member states have already banned the use of wild animals in circuses for reasons of animal welfare, but also for public safety. it's not just an ethical issue, commissioner. hundreds of incidents, including escapes, assaults and accidents, have proved that over the past two decades. let us lend a hand to germany, france, italy and spain. i would like to see a european ban on the use of wild animals in circuses. and together, let's free the last of the wild animals and take them to a place far away from the circus.
mr president, i’m always sceptical about the introduction of bans, especially by politicians who aren’t directly affected by them. i had the same idea about this, but then i looked at the situation in reality. i found out, for instance, that fossett’s, a great irish circus that has been touring for over 130 years, did not oppose a ban on wild animals being introduced in 2018 in ireland as they had voluntarily stopped performing with wild animals in 2005. we have, of course, a full or partial ban in 23 member states, and it actually makes sense at this time to move to a full eu—wide ban because, while some have expressed concern that a ban of this sort will damage the circus industry, i think the example of fossett’s says otherwise. the public at large is no longer comfortable supporting the use of wild animals in circuses and high animal welfare standards, in fact, attract customers. this year, i worked, as the ppe shadow rapporteur, on two files in the committee on constitutional affairs (afco) regarding citizens’ participation in eu decision—making. particularly now, during the conference on the future of europe, it is vital that the voices of eu citizens are heard. the stop circus suffering campaign has collected over a million signatures on their petition to date, exceeding the threshold required for a european citizens’ initiative (eci). we must ask ourselves, why didn’t the organisers of this petition create an eci? perhaps it is because, while we have had six successful ecis to date, including most recently on the use of cages for farmed animals, unfortunately you have to ask the question, how much of an impact have they had? to encourage citizens’ engagement and prevent disillusionment, the commission must do better in engaging genuinely with valid ecis. it’s clear that animal welfare is a priority of many eu citizens and we have a duty to express their will.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. while a total or partial ban on the use of animals in circuses has already been introduced in 23 member states, we should aim for a total ban across the union. wild animals in circuses are forced to behave in ways that we don't see in their environment. their well-being is also seriously threatened. the exploitation of endangered species also undermines international efforts to combat illegal trade and poaching. in 2019, public opinion in poland was shocked by information about the transport of bengal tigers transported in scandalous conditions from italy to a circus in russia. due to the lack of veterinary documentation, the consignment was not allowed to enter the territory of belarus and stopped at the border. tigers were transported in cramped cages and were fed inadequately. one in 10 animals was in agony. the others were in a terrible state. the tigers were rescued only thanks to the quick and professional action of the poznań zoo staff. no animal can be treated like this. it is our duty to oppose such practices decisively. all previous questions to the european commission on the ban on the use of wild animals in circuses have been answered with the information that the ban is not within the competence of the commission but belongs to the member states. if so, the commission should consider including circus activities under the provisions of the so-called zoo directive, which lays down precise rules for keeping wild animals in zoos, licenses such activities and sets strict requirements for the transport and storage of wild animals. i think that is the minimum we need to ensure before the use of wild animals in circuses is completely banned in the european union. i want it done as soon as possible.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to sincerely thank the honourable members very much for sharing your views on this important matter. i have listened very carefully to your voice and i hear what you’re saying. i also hear what more than one million eu citizens were saying when they signed the petition and sent it to brussels, and i understand the legitimate concerns that our citizens have concerning wild animals in general and their use in circuses in particular, and i’m glad that a large majority of member states have already banned the use of wild animals in circuses. but we also know what the treaty says, and we are a union based on the rule of law. the treaty says what the eu can do and what member states should do. and as i said, this is an ethical issue. this doesn’t mean it is not important. of course it is important, but it’s an ethical issue, and the member states are the ones that have the competence and obligation to regulate ethical issues. we do regulate cross-border movement – i mentioned that in my introduction – but the issue as such has to be tackled by member states. and here i would really like to say the following: you, as elected representatives of european citizens, are well placed to gauge the public mood, especially the public mood in those member states that have yet to introduce such a ban on using wild animals in circuses. on that basis, i think it would be good if you could work with your national parliamentary colleagues in those member states that have not yet banned the use of wild animals in circuses and help advocate and deliver change.
in writing. one million citizens call for an end to the use of wild animals in circuses. tigers, lions, bears, monkeys and other wild animals have no place on the catwalk. this kind of activity is no longer valued or sought after. on the contrary, audiences are found where there are high standards of animal welfare and where the circus is committed to its educational and cultural side rather than forcing captive animals to perform unusual activities that serve only to entertain people. let's not forget that wild animals in circuses suffer a number of physical and social hardships, and their training is often based on punishment. animals forced to live in unnatural conditions and confined in very tight cages can react in ways that pose risks to their tamers and to the public themselves. added to this is the stress of the high-pitched music, the shouting of thousands of people, and the dazzling light of the stage. twenty-four member states have adopted legislation banning the use of wild animals in circuses. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. it's time for the institutions to wake up and respond to the expectations of the people.
in writing. the use of animals in circuses poses a threat to public health, to circus workers and, because of the use of endangered species, to biodiversity. but at the same time, and above all, it is a source of suffering for the animals themselves, who are tortured and imprisoned by their 'caretakers'. the use of animals in circuses is just one of many examples of man's exploitation of nonhuman animals, in this case for entertainment. since the beginning of my term, i have been speaking out loud about the need to end the exploitation of animals by humans in all its forms. in my 'five for animals' i put forward demands to ban the use of animals for entertainment, such as circuses, dolphinariums and parrots, as well as for sport and recreation, for testing and education, the use and killing of so-called farm animals, hunting of animals by hunters and fishermen. the vast majority of member states have already prohibited or significantly restricted the use of animals in circuses. the eu, which claims to be a leader in animal protection, is lagging far behind its members and should ban the use of animals in circuses as soon as possible. more than a million citizens have signed a petition to this effect. because as the activists of the polish coalition circus without animals say: "circus is funny, not for animals".
author. – madam president, when the development of civil society and a democratic state with the rule of law becomes a state-prosecuted crime, organisations such as international memorial are liquidated. it’s a well-known and a very sad fact. the plain truth is that putin’s regime perceives the dissolution of the former ussr as a tragedy and the collapse of historical russia. it’s all about the empire of evil, which through the red terror, great purges, mass arrests and executions, deportation and imposed famine, has killed between 9 and 15 million people. my country, lithuania, also paid a very high price with massive deportations and the killing of innocent people. the kremlin tries to silence the victims of bolshevik and communist repressions, who speak with one voice and demand historical justice and acknowledgement, and not to repeat it ever again. memorial international stands for historical truth and the prevention of a return to totalitarianism. putin’s policy, which is built on the glorification of stalinism and the soviet terror policy, must be condemned in the strongest terms as non-compatible with today’s legal norms and european way of life. let me wish memorial international a very happy new year and i hope to see their activities continued.
author. – madam president, by this debate, our humble statements, we pay highest tribute to all activists of memorial. we are extremely grateful for their work in both remits. first, the historic research exposing crimes of stalinist regime in the soviet union, as well as crimes of putin’s regime in the contemporary russian federation. and the second remit, defence of human rights in the russian federation and in the broader region. as a pole, i am really, extremely grateful for their enormous achievements. there are double—track proceedings before courts in moscow. one against international memorial, an umbrella organisation, in the supreme court with allegations of violating the ‘foreign agent’ law, and second one against the human rights centre with even graver allegations of defending terrorists. do you imagine, those noble peoples defending terrorists while it is the russian federation – a country sponsoring terrorism?
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have discussed the european union's relations with the russian federation several times this week. the debate on memorial international today is certainly the most far-reaching debate on the development of society in russia. the threat from one of the oldest and best known civil society organisations is worrying. it illustrates the arbitrariness of the russian state apparatus' approach to civil society engagement and ngos that are involved in the democratic processes of shaping society. the foreign agents act is out of place, as is the flimsy, arbitrary, and conspiratorial action against memorial. we insist on respect for human rights, transparency, honesty and openness in all political action as indispensable conditions for a broad democratic, participatory participation of people in shaping their societies in the eu, but also outside. this must apply in particular to memorial, given its painful experience of the soviet past, as it certainly is for many people, and to all the other forces of a civil society which is increasingly claiming its own right to participate. we call on the russian government to immediately stop the prosecution of memorial. freedom of expression must be guaranteed. and yes, intercultural dialogue must also be allowed to develop freely. at the same time, we are opposed to the reflex reaction of the eu, including this house, to draw a new spiral in the sanctions policy against russia, to mix all the problems of the past and various interests, rather than developing a new and viable strategy for dialogue, which is long overdue.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, let me begin by thanking my colleagues on this important and timely resolution. the crimes of communism continue to reverberate and haunt europe. for many of us whose countries were subject to communist rule and whose families have suffered persecution for our belief in freedom and human dignity, the memory of this brutal regime is not only something in the past. it is something we must continue to remember and remind the future generations, so that such crimes are not repeated again. my own members of the family were killed, sent to forced labour camps and prosecuted by the communists. it is in this context that the work of memorial has been so important in documenting the crimes of one of the most murderous regimes in history – the crimes it has committed against people in the soviet union and beyond. dear colleagues, memorial was established in 1989 by andrei sakharov and others – that was still in the days of the soviet union. it is ironic that an organisation that was able to exist even in the last years of the soviet union, still under the grip of the communist party, is being labelled and forced to close down by today’s regime in the kremlin. the regime of vladimir putin is not only trying to whitewash the history of the soviet union, but also we can see attempts to rehabilitate stalin, one of the most brutal murderers in history. these steps tell us a lot about the kind of regime we are dealing with in the kremlin today: corrupt, oppressive and willing to abuse and manipulate history for its own ends. this tragic history is our shared history. and if we don’t stop these attempts, it might have serious consequences for us all.
on behalf of the s&d group. the history of russia, and the soviet union in particular, is full of unprecedented crimes and atrocities. millions of people were killed, millions were sent to inhuman conditions in the east. millions starved to death, died, and died in camps. despite all the official pseudo-patriotic propaganda, despite countless monuments, this state has not taken seriously its moral obligation to remove the black stains of history, to restore dignity to the victims and to name the known perpetrators. with the establishment of memorial, hope was given to change this. it is thanks to the tremendous work of the memorial people that russia and the world know so much more, and that the names and memories of millions of victims have been restored. russians, ukrainians, lithuanians, latvians, estonians, belarusians, poles, and many other nations owe the memorial a great deal of knowledge. therefore, today's repression of the memorial is not only a fight against an independent association, it is a fight against historical truth, it is the deprivation of millions of victims of crime of the last right to restore human dignity to each of these people. how much contempt for people, for your nation and country, does it take to use state violence to eliminate historical truth? hiding criminals is more important than paying tribute to their victims. if the memorial is to be delegated, the union and the member states should welcome the organisation and its staff. they must be given the conditions to continue their work. their findings are important for the whole of europe. the truth cannot be forbidden.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. russia is the constant anti-hero of our proceedings. russian imperialism is manifested not only in aggression against other countries, but also aggression against its own people, intimidation, repression against anyone who doubts putin's rule. we were talking about ukraine. we were talking about navalny. today we're going to talk about action against ngos, especially those that monitor human rights. a law was passed against them, branding them as foreign agents. the repression against the organization memorial, which investigated and exposed criminal activities, for example in chechnya or in syria by the wagner group, is particularly severe. the memorial also revealed stalinist crimes, such as the crimes against polish officers in katyn and polish partisans in 1945. let's arm the activists of memorial and let's defend the legacy of this organization, its vast database, its collection of documents, evidence of crime. this collection must become the heritage of all europe. let's create a safe space for memorial activists in our countries to open up a collection of important documents and preserve them for historical truth.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: on tuesday we discussed in this house the issue of cooperation with the western balkan countries in the fight against organised crime. i said that leaving the countries of the region to their own devices would inevitably lead to a growing role in these countries, unfortunately, alongside organised crime groups, of countries like china, russia and turkey. these states will not only use the western balkans for business, but they will also do everything to destabilize the political situation in europe. in recent years, we have been hearing more and more about the side effects of business activities in serbia by large multinational companies, especially chinese companies. china has been pursuing its policy towards the western balkans region for several years based on investments in infrastructure projects, but this is only one side of the coin. the other one, the dark one, we're discussing today. the inhuman treatment of vietnamese workers, the supply of investment with corrosive capital, difficult to settle, not transparent, capital flows from authoritarian states - all this must be condemned. but the question remains: will the european union give up the western balkans? do we give our friends to china and russia?
mr. chairman, please! in recent years, china has developed cooperation with the balkan candidate countries, taking advantage of their investment needs. serbia in particular responded positively to the chinese proposals. beijing, in turn, appears to be treating serbia as part of a global "belt and road" initiative, a logistical project that is expected to lead to the modern equivalent of the silk road and increase china's economic sphere of influence. the european union should seek to increase its presence in the balkans in the light of china's growing interest in the region. this requires speeding up membership negotiations and facilitating access to preaccession funds. the issue is the blatant abuse of employees employed by chinese investments in serbia. ngos report that vietnamese workers employed there live and work in inhumane conditions. they want to go back to vietnam, but they have no passports and no money. human rights organizations report that these workers were smuggled into serbia and are likely to be used as slave labor. the serbian government is turning a blind eye. urgent and consistent intervention is therefore needed to protect the rights of these people.
