on behalf of the left group. mr president, seven years after the troika's adjustment programmes, the european commission's technical teams are back. my country knows them well. the last time we were governed according to the guidelines of these technical teams, the european commission did not spare the right-wing government of the day any praise. the result was the greatest economic recession and the greatest social catastrophe in the history of our democracy. these teams recommended even greater deregulation of the labor market, which has skyrocketed unemployment, and they also recommended unprecedented cuts in our national health service, which has left it weakened to meet the challenges it faces today. they always say it's all very voluntary and now it comes masked with good intentions. but we've seen this movie before. and so i suggest that the commission leave its technicians in brussels, give the money to the member states and let those governments that european citizens have chosen, with the programmes that have been paid for, govern. it's called democracy.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i thank marie-pierre vedrenne for her report and i would like to begin by reiterating the european parliament's full support for the rules-based multilateral trading system and, unequivocally, for the wto and its reform. however, in the face of the paralysis of the wto dispute settlement mechanism's appellate body, the european union acted swiftly to overcome the gaps in european legislation and ensure the ability to protect the interests of the union and its member states in international trade agreements. parliament wanted more and went further. we have extended the scope of the regulation to include services and intellectual property rights in the list of eu trade policy measures. both represent a significant and growing part of global trade. the credibility and deterrent effect of the regulation is thus strengthened, and the european union can also take action in these areas as quickly and effectively as in other areas such as goods or public procurement. parliament also succeeded in obtaining a joint declaration on the urgency of a new instrument to deter and counteract coercive actions by third countries. last but not least, i would like to stress the commitment that this regulation should ensure the most consistent application of the mechanism in trade disputes relating to international trade agreements, covering the trade and sustainable development chapter.
mr president, three points on this subject: what is the situation with regard to the increase in vaccine production capacity in the european union? this increase should have been applied to all contracted vaccines and thus avoided delays in their delivery, ensuring accessibility to all regions, including the most peripheral and remote regions, such as the outermost regions. as regards contracts, and repeating what has already been said by several of my colleagues from various political quarters, when will it be possible for members to consult the various contracts in their entirety and with few or no parts censored? and finally, in the interests of transparency, there is an urgent need to set up a european dashboard accessible to all, which will make the process of distributing vaccines and subsequent vaccination in the different member states and regions monitored on a continuous basis, in order to improve the transparency of this whole process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago we started to learn about the virus and we saw the first images coming from wuhan, china. less than 12 months later we have safe and effective european vaccines and all member states have started vaccinating their citizens. the many human losses we mourn should not for one second cause us to give up or to discredit the path we have taken together in the health response, in the procurement of equipment, of vaccines and in the simultaneous distribution of vaccination. but we want more. we want the european union to move forward with a certificate that will allow vaccinated citizens to regain their freedom of movement in the european area, helping to restore normalcy to key industries such as tourism. we want a europe committed to science and to truth. it is not acceptable that in the most advanced economic and social area in the world we have several countries where more than half of the citizens refuse to be vaccinated. disinformation also kills. but if we can say that europe has been up to the task, we cannot always say the same about governments. incoherent and complex decisions and communications are hampering the fight against the virus, and the problems of organizing and distributing vaccines are not acceptable to those who have had so much time to prepare. if lack of resources is sometimes a problem, nothing has cost more than inconsistency, lack of planning and ideological blindness.
mr president, commissioner, there is no doubt that the coronavirus pandemic has hit the world in an unprecedented way. we were unprepared, undoubtedly vulnerable, and as the czech proverb says, time has slipped out of the joint. we have a chance to put this situation back on track. vaccines are undoubtedly a success of science and of course of the pharmaceutical companies, but also of the european union. the virus is here to stay, it's very unexplored. however, at least we have some form of defense. i will not be one of those who criticize the european commission's approach to vaccine procurement. i am convinced that the commission sought to eliminate the risk, based on the facts and data known at the time. what would we be witnessing if the commission had not acted in this way? undoubtedly nationalism and overpayment between member states. vaccines must be distributed equally and without discrimination to all member states and to vulnerable groups. we need more transparency, that's for sure. we need a positive campaign for vaccination and we also need, in my view, a strengthening of the european union's powers in the field of health. and the constant permanence of the production capacity. we cannot be dependent on other parts of the world and be so de facto vulnerable.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i want to thank you first of all for a very interesting and very informative debate. a great deal has been discussed and mentioned and i will try to pick up as many points as possible. first of all, i just want to start by saying that we share the many concerns voiced by many of you here in terms of the covid—19 fatigue and the need for citizens to return to their normality and i wanted to pick up with you an issue that hasn’t been mentioned today but that is extremely important, that we are aware of and that we are looking at and that is the impact that covid—19 and this pandemic is also having on the mental health of each and every european citizen. many of you mentioned the issues of production. i just wanted to share with you that the bottleneck at the moment is not in the number of orders that has been placed but in the worldwide shortage of production capacity. because the strategy has been mentioned a number of times, i wanted to just say that in june we decided with the 27 member states that the eu would not put all its eggs in one basket and that we would really work with member states in order to have a diversified portfolio and that has been achieved because we now have six vaccines all with apas signed, and two so far being authorised as being safe and effective. this shows the power of unity, the power of joining forces and it is what everybody wanted and we were mandated to do: to carry out the negotiations with and on behalf of the 27 member states. all decisions on which vaccine candidates were taken to invest in and how was taken jointly with everyone agreeing on the approach of building a broad portfolio. in october, there was a communication by the commission asking all the member states to be prepared for their rollout for their vaccine strategies and i have said many times in this parliament that finding a safe and effective vaccine would not be a silver bullet; it would not be possible for us to end the pandemic in one day. we are working as closely as we can with all member states, of course, in order to be able to ensure that rollouts move as quickly as possible and in the communication that we issuing later on today we’re asking member states to send information to the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) at least twice a week so we are able to monitor the situation. so we now have two vaccines, which have been approved and are being progressively distributed at increasing speed. every day and every vaccination counts and the stock of vaccines delivered need to be used as quickly as possible. we are working with member states in order to support them with this, but let’s not all forget that this is the first time in history that we are all undertaking such a mass vaccination campaign of this size and of this complexity and we do face already and they will be more challenges down the road, but we are there to support member states and solve these problems as they appear. some of you mentioned the situation that appeared a few days ago with biontech—pfizer. i just wanted to let you know that, from the moment that this situation appeared, i was in calls continuously with the health ministers and we called a meeting immediately of the steering committee together and we are working continuously with biontech—pfizer in order to support them to develop more production capacities in the eu. we are fully mobilised – both the european medicines agency and the commission – to support the ramping up of production as soon as possible. in terms of the importance of doing this together, i have said before that joining forces is the only way to ensure that all member states had access to so many different vaccines at the same time and, as many of you said, at the same price. but now we need to really work as quickly as possible to roll these out and fairness has always been a crucial principle in our strategy. we were very clear about this and we are now asking member states to move as quickly as possible to be able to reach citizens. you mentioned issues of bilateral contracts and parallel negotiations. i will repeat what i have said many times: the purpose and the guiding principle of our vaccine strategy is to avoid parallel negotiations. this would undermine the strategy’s effectiveness. we now have two approved vaccines. we have negotiated delivery of 300 million additional doses of biontech—pfizer. we are awaiting the scientific assessment of the astrazeneca vaccine at the end of this month and the johnson & johnson is under review. we therefore consider that, with these supplies, we will be able to address fully the needs of member states. all member states joined the eu strategy for the covid—19 vaccine and this implies both rights and obligations, and so far all member states are part of the contracts we have negotiated. so, it is not legally possible for them to negotiate bilateral contracts with the companies in the eu portfolio and i have reminded member states of these rights and obligations. many of you mentioned transparency. i will be as brief as possible. we are, as a commission, 100% in favour of transparency, we can show absolute flexibility on this. we have been working with companies; biontech—pfizer has agreed to release its contract and we are now working with the other companies to move forward but we cannot unilaterally decide to disclose confidential information, such as information on prices, under the contracts unless the companies agree. liability was used. liability under the conditional marketing authorisations remains with the manufacturers and holders and they are responsible for the products and the safe use and this is the importance of the conditional marketing authorisation that we had followed. in terms of the global aspect, i believe that when it comes to dealing with a global pandemic of these proportions, we should not be speaking about competition between countries. we saw from the beginning that the ‘first us’ approach does not work and we need to have global solidarity in order to really be a shield against covid—19. this is why we launched the coronavirus global response; this is why we are strong supporters of access to the covid—19 tools (act) accelerator. the issue of diagnostics and therapeutics was also mentioned. we need to work on that as well for all countries and not just vaccines. global access and equal access to vaccines is the reason why we have joined covax and we will continue to support it. in terms of delivery, in today’s communication we will be stressing that we need to work with companies to deliver a clear and transparent schedule for deliveries. i want to just say here that the practical arrangements of the deliveries are laid down in the contracts between the company and the member states and we are doing our best really to help this on a daily basis, constantly on the phone trying to help our member states with issues that appear. wherever feasible we do step in to offer support to the member states and to liaise with the company to help ensure that engagements are respected. the variants were mentioned. this is a very important issue, thank you for raising it. currently there is no evidence that the biontech—pfizer and moderna vaccines would not be effective against this variant but information is still being collected and analysed and ongoing. i’m in constant contact with the european medicines agency for this. typically, viruses mutate so we need to follow it up very carefully, and again today in the communication, we are going to be urging member states to do more genomic sequencing across the eu to identify variants. this is crucial in order for us to share this information so that we are able to follow it. there is no evidence so far that it does not cause more serious illness or that the vaccines are less effective but it does appear that there is evidence that they are transmitted more quickly. and, last but not least, vaccination certificates. this is a common approach across the eu to monitor vaccine effectiveness, it may be needed once citizens are vaccinated. this could reinforce the success of the vaccination programmes in member states. we are in active discussions with the member states on how we will move forward with this because they need to be recognised across all member states and we could also set a global example. we welcome all inputs from member states, including that we had recently from greece, it is an important issue and it is going to be one of the issues as well as the rollout strategies that will be discussed this week at the european council with the heads of state. i will end here. i want to thank you once again for a very important and informative discussion, and i want to say what i have been saying from the beginning, that we will leave no stone unturned until we exit this pandemic because we all understand how important it is that citizens and economies and societies are able to return to a way of life as we knew before. thank you again for the opportunity.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for this debate. i took good note of positions, demands and suggestions, but i also heard, loud and clear, the expression of support for all of the european union to work united and at the eu level, together with the commission. since the start of this crisis, the european union and its member states have closely worked together and mobilised massive resources to fight against the virus. we have managed to develop, to distribute, and to start the process of vaccination. we need to continue, united and in coordination. to start, the vaccination campaign offers a glimpse of hope. we still have a long way to go before we can get to herd immunity so we need to continue to work. we need the commission to support us with the establishment of targets for all member states in terms of the vaccination. we need to have european recognition of tests, and the capacity to produce and discuss the question of the vaccine certificate. we need to continue the genomic sequencing of the virus. we need to produce more data that is compatible and that we can use among member states to get more information. we need transparency in all these processes. only in this way will we get the trust of our citizens. the heads of state and government will discuss all these matters at the meeting that will take place in two days. i think this debate was really informative and very important at this stage. we need the continued cooperation of all the eu institutions in these challenging times. united, we can make the european union and the entire world a safer place. we need to have a common goal in the european union and around the world to defeat this virus. it is clear that no country will be able to defeat the covid—19 pandemic. we need solidarity. we need to talk to other countries about covax and about how we can reinforce who technical cooperation and also work in the european team spirit. united, we can make the european union and the entire world a safer place to fight against this virus. together we stay stronger.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the eu is right to apply an external dimension to its vaccination strategy, as we will not end the virus in europe until we have defeated it worldwide. we must stand together against the pandemic for medical efficacy, ethical principles and to show our value as partners. europe will give partner countries access to part of the 2.3 billion doses guaranteed by its strategy. it also donates €853 million to covax. however, developed vaccines have been monopolized through bilateral contracts by the wealthier countries (13 percent of the world's population), delaying their acquisition by the poorer countries until 2022. two million people have already died. one million in seven months and another in three months. the virus is spreading faster than our vaccine rollout. so we need to address scarcity and distribution. we need more producers developing the vaccine, especially in low- and middle-income countries. we must give them access to the knowledge that develops new and affordable vaccines for everyone. we must move forward along the path indicated by who and its covid-19 technology access fund, considering vaccines as global public goods.
in writing. in the current pandemic situation, vaccines are an important means of fighting the virus and saving lives. the speed with which these vaccines have been developed is remarkable and a demonstration of the enormous potential of science and technology in our day. we believe that vaccination plans cannot be subject to a rationing policy that serves the interests of multinational laboratories that want to have a monopoly on the sale of vaccines in the european union. these multinationals are resisting the subcontracting of other laboratories and the sharing of patents, despite the gravity of the current situation and despite all the aid and the large public financial resources and millions of dollars put at their disposal for vaccine research and production and with guaranteed sales. we cannot accept that the selfish interests of pharmaceutical monopolies should prevail over the right to health and life of the population, and therefore we must act to put pressure on the big laboratories and also find solutions to diversify the procurement of vaccines. because it seems obvious that the solution of joint vaccine purchasing does not allow mass vaccination of populations with the desirable speed.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is of the utmost importance to modernise and future-proof europe's multimodal transport infrastructure in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market and competitiveness, and to support the transition to more sustainable, more efficient and safer mobility. it is therefore very important that all member states have a well-developed network that takes into account territorial accessibility throughout the european union, in particular in the peripheral, island and outermost regions, in order to promote and boost european and international tourism. it is important to take account of the quality of connections, accessibility, infrastructure and prices to and from these regions. the principles of cohesion also require a good transport policy, which leaves no region behind.
in writing. it does not take elaborate or sophisticated arguments to stress the importance of the trans-european transport network. let's just talk about the present, let's just talk about this wretched pandemic that's plaguing us. let us reflect, simply and objectively, on the importance of european connections in the past year. i'm talking about supply chains of basic necessities, whether it's food or medical. i'm talking about the possibility of being transported. i even speak, to be sufficiently emphatic, of the distribution of vaccines. i would like to add another matter which is absolutely relevant: the environment. we must not forget that the european union is a major player in the world economy. we are also working towards the objectives of the european green deal. we therefore have a duty to strive for a rapid and effective transition to sustainable, smart and safe mobility by incorporating new technologies and strengthening the link between transport and infrastructure. the eu's regional cohesion, the cross-border mobility of goods and people, effective access to all european territories, will bring citizens closer together and strengthen economies and the single market. the future and success of the eu and the single market depend on a true transeuropean transport network.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. this is the martyrdom of refugees and migrants in bosnia and herzegovina. a martyrdom that is repeated in other places around our external borders such as libya and turkey. clearly, the local authorities have failed. but the european union also bears responsibility when it outsources the management of migration flows through agreements, or, worse, when it pushes migrants from its borders, with the cooperation of the libyan and turkish coast guards, through the shameful action of border guards from member states, when not with the involvement of frontex, whose director we are still waiting for to resign. the dramatic situation in the former lipa camp has led the union to announce an additional eur 3.5 million to the 88 delivered over the last 3 years to bosnia and herzegovina. we continue to act in emergencies, pouring money on problems, when we need solidarity, sustainable and human rights-respecting responses.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, the persecution, detention and even physical elimination of political opponents, journalists and activists is a pattern in the russian federation. nemtsov, politkovskaya, yushenkov, are names we should remember as some of the examples of murdered critics of the putin regime. after surviving the attempted poisoning and numerous persecutions, navalny has now been jailed for a sentence that i denounced in 2013 as being wounded by irregularities and attacks on the rule of law, and which was also declared in 2018 by the european court of human rights as being politically conditioned. while those responsible for his poisoning remain at large, navalny is being held in the prison where magnistky died. this is a clear affront to the european union and the entire international community. we welcome the call by the high representative for navalny's immediate release and demand that those responsible for his detention be included on the sanctions list.
madam president, after many attempts by the socialists and democrats we are finally discussing in parliament a positive agenda for relations with latin america. one of the conclusions of the ministerial meeting refers to the potential of a bi-regional digital alliance and the issues of connectivity. if the european union is to claim digital sovereignty, we must find partners who share the same concerns and principles with whom we can build a new model. this is certainly the case in latin america. just as the construction of a house starts with the foundations, so too this alliance must start with connectivity and in this the portuguese presidency will have a pioneering role. the transatlantic submarine fibre optic cable ella link will be a digital fast-track for the exchange of knowledge and data, connecting several countries of the union and latin america, and in particular some major research centres on both continents. the eu must continue to support latin america in tackling the serious inequalities that still exist, which are the cause of so many political problems, but also the challenges of the future, and the digital transition is one of them if it is done without leaving anyone behind. mr high representative, if the eu is to be a geopolitical force, it needs partners. latin america is a continent full of them. let's not ignore them.
madam president, mr high representative, allow me to extend a warm welcome to you for your efforts and commitment to relaunching relations between the european union and latin america and the caribbean. i know very well that without your determination, this would not have been possible. the health, economic and social crisis resulting from the pandemic has reinforced the view that multilateral cooperation is not a mere political option. it is a need of the people globally and specifically of the european union and latin america, not only in the fight against the pandemic and in cooperation for access to the vaccine for all as a fundamental right, but also in the construction of a robust recovery strategy that is attentive to combating inequalities, social exclusion and a recovery that is based on technological, economic and social innovation, focusing on the achievement of the sustainable development goals of the 2030 agenda and that can leave no one behind. a recovery that promotes the strengthening of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, which have been so badly damaged in this critical period.
the rapporteur. - madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all my colleagues for their intensive cooperation and dialogue. without this, we would not have been able to produce such a comprehensive and balanced report. the fact that this is the annual report does not and cannot make it a mere ritual. it is a document awaited by many people around the world whose rights are violated and so often denied, and who look to the european union for a sign of encouragement. throughout this report, compared with previous ones, we have seen that improvements are slow and the challenges are increasingly complex. the global threat to democracy and the rule of law, resulting from a combination of factors such as the rise of authoritarianism and populism, the increase in inequalities and poverty, the shrinking space for civil society, the malicious use of information technologies and political interference by external actors, challenges us at every turn. the european union is called upon to take increasingly more action to strengthen democratic institutions and transparent and credible electoral processes, to combat inequalities and to support civil society organisations. the fight against climate change and the defence of the environment and human rights are increasingly interlinked and require a response based on multilateralism. attacks on human rights defenders, environmentalists, indigenous peoples, journalists, political opponents and minorities continue to be a constant. to put an end to them and to combat the impunity enjoyed by perpetrators of human rights violations requires the convergence of states, not only in the adoption of firm conclusions by foreign affairs, but also in firm and assertive action. the setbacks in gender equality, sexual and reproductive health and rights in many parts of the world cannot be counted on our approval, as well as the stigmatization and persecution of lgbti people. child health and education, the eradication of child labour and the fight against all forms of child abuse continue to be battles that do not admit of truce. the need to respond to the plight of migrants and refugees requires determined, supportive and sustainable action, in line with the migration pact. the increase in international tensions and the effect of the activity of non-state armed groups and terrorist organisations on the growth of violence are sources of serious human rights violations and require an increasing effort in cooperation for peace and development. to overcome these and so many other challenges, it is imperative to put human rights and democracy and the rule of law at the heart of our foreign policy and at the centre of european policies. this means using all the instruments at our disposal, systematically introducing human rights clauses in all the union's international agreements, with a particular focus on trade and association agreements, making the implementation of the action plan for democracy and human rights 2020-2024 an open and participatory task, promoting consultation and structured dialogue with civil society and parliament, taking up the uncompromising defence of multilateralism and un reform and supporting the international criminal court, highlighting the effectiveness of our foreign policy through qualified majority voting in the council on human rights issues, moving forward with the establishment of an urgent due diligence mechanism, which removes from our supply chains products and raw materials whose procurement amounts to a violation of human rights, among others. the exceptional nature of the pandemic period between the time of this report and its presentation has meant that it has not been entirely untouched by the subject. we welcome the response to covid-19 by states that have made the right to life and health their priority, but we cannot but express our concern that in some countries covid-19 has led to a decline in standards of democracy and human rights. this crisis cannot be used to consolidate authoritarian powers or weaken the rule of law and all measures to respond to the pandemic must be based on human rights, on non-discrimination in any form and by any person. but if we are to face the future, it is important not to give in to the density of this whole picture and to grasp the signs of hope. the new global mechanism for sanctions for human rights violations, which has long been called for in this parliament, is a milestone in the fight against impunity and i hereby congratulate the high representative for his role in this matter. despite the persistent trend of shrinking civil society space, seeing citizens, especially young people, mobilizing around political and social causes, demanding more and better responses to climate change, in defense of democracy and human rights, shows us that another tomorrow is possible. the demands of the present time do not allow for our resignation. it's time to act. to paraphrase churchill, i would say that it is not enough to say that we are doing the best we can, we must be able to do what is necessary.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, mr high representative, this debate and resolution of the european parliament are part of the continuing interference, destabilisation and aggression against the bolivarian republic of venezuela and the venezuelan people, intensified by donald trump and with the complicity of the european union. this action, which is contrary to the charter of the united nations and international law, imposes coercive measures against venezuela unilaterally and extraterritorially. political sanctions, economic and financial blockade and the theft of assets of the venezuelan state, including through novo banco in portugal, which are aimed, in a deliberate and criminal manner, even in times of pandemic, at the venezuelan economy and the living conditions of the venezuelan people, including the luso-venezuelan community, by hindering the mobilization of financial means to purchase essential goods and medicines. what is required is an immediate end to the sanctions and the blockade and respect for the sovereignty and independence of venezuela and the right of the venezuelan people to decide, without interference, their present and future.
mr president, mr high representative, this parliament has been united in its rejection of the maduro regime and of electoral processes which are neither transparent nor democratic, such as that of 6 december. however, even if the legitimacy of the new assembly is not recognised, we cannot ignore the fact that the previous one ended its mandate in january this year. it's a tough dead end. it's a worse situation than the one we had, which can only be overcome through dialogue and negotiation, leading to credible processes, including local, presidential and legislative elections, with international observation, freedom of the press and participation of all venezuelans. one of the strengths of the european union in this matter, mr high representative, is that it is the only international actor that has a dialogue with all venezuelans. we must therefore continue to speak with one voice against any acts of repression, in particular against members of the opposition, working in particular with the last lawfully elected members of parliament from the 2015 assembly. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be implemented in accordance with the union's macro-financial assistance programmes. it is on the priority for venezuela that we should remain united in this parliament.
madam president, i agree with those who have said that hate speech always ends in violence, that speech against democracy always ends in attempts to destroy it. but we all know, and it has also been said, that trump and hate speech have their supporters on this side of the atlantic, and so forgive me if i cannot take very seriously speeches of shock and indignation at what happened on capitol hill coming from the bench that continues to house viktor orbán's party. in this time, the time we live in, it is a time of struggle for democracy and freedom and all democratic forces have to choose which side they are on and act accordingly. to act accordingly is also to look here in the european union at what gave birth to the far right. the far right feeds on the social wounds that exist in europe too, which many european policies have sought to reinforce, and those who are now anxious to resume the programmes of adjustment for memory problems would do well to take stock of this and to make this historic exercise.
madam president, mr prime minister, we will not bring to this house national debates which only reveal the complete absence of a national and european agenda on the part of a right wing which only clings to cases and does not debate either the priorities of the country or the priorities of europe. but we regret that there is no clear intention in the portuguese presidency's document to discuss the future of economic governance in europe, particularly in view of the increasingly clear intentions of the european right, after a brief interlude of support for economic recovery, to initiate adjustment programmes, pressure on national governments to withdraw support for the economy, a policy that our country knows very well, which has had catastrophic consequences and which the portuguese government should help to combat through the presidency of the european union. i regret that this debate will not be held during the next six months and that our presidency will not contribute to changing economic governance rules that are not in the interests of the european union. i also think that a presidency which gives so much prominence to the social question, even announcing the proposal for the social summit, should also give very important prominence to labour issues within the framework of social issues and this, unfortunately, does not happen and is, unfortunately, consistent with what has been the policy of the portuguese government not to reverse the amendments to the labour legislation from the time of the troika. finally, a presidency which wants to put the climate at the centre of its agenda cannot have as one of its priorities the continuing ecological attack on the free trade agreement with mercosur, which is a sword hanging over the amazon and the ecological balance on a global scale. this agreement must be abandoned and the portuguese presidency of the european union would be an excellent time to do so.
madam president, dear president ursula von der leyen, dear prime minister antónio costa, allow me to begin by saying a word of support to all professionals, especially healthcare professionals, who are working on the front lines of the fight against covid-19. but this pandemic didn't just happen. according to scientific data, it is a symptom of a failed and broken system. i am talking about the way we produce and consume food in a globalised world and, given the risks to public health, the impacts on biodiversity and climate change mitigation, as well as the welfare of millions of animals in europe, i ask the commission and the council presidency whether they will actively seek to ensure that the decisions resulting from the negotiations on the common agricultural policy, now in the trilogue phase, are based on the european plate-to-platter strategy and the strategy for the preservation of biodiversity. the common agricultural policy is not just 34% of the multiannual financial framework. it is a key policy to deliver on the european green deal and the best tool to implement resilient and regenerative production processes.
madam president, mr prime minister, the scale of the problems facing several countries in the european union, including portugal, requires the implementation of measures that are the opposite of those that have been at the root of the decline in labour and social rights, the growing social inequality and concentration of wealth, the weakening and privatisation of public services, the increase in dependency and indebtedness, and the disregard for sovereignty for decades. the gravity of the situation calls for a different approach to ensure employment with rights, the strengthening of public services and the social functions of the state, support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, investment in the strategic and productive sectors, ensuring the sovereign development of each country and convergence in economic and social progress. the so-called 'recovery fund' and the multiannual financial framework should promote the achievement of these objectives by ensuring a rapid mobilisation of resources, taking into account the economic and social reality and the specific needs of each country and without imposing conditionalities that interfere with sovereign decisions. the social summit announced today must not be reduced to a declaration of intentions and policies based on levelling, social regression or measures to mitigate the impact of a planned destruction of jobs. what is required is a pact for employment and social progress aimed at full employment, employment with rights, the eradication of precariousness, wage appreciation. a pact that promotes the defence and strengthening of public services in each country, ensuring the universality of rights such as the right to health, education, social security or housing.
madam president, mr prime minister antónio costa, madam president of the european commission, in a debate scheduled for parliament to discuss the priorities of the presidency of the council for the next six months, where we must focus on saving lives, on saving jobs, an mep from the epp has so far chosen to de-tune the rest of the house, to nationalise the debate and to attack the prime minister of portugal. i regret to note this choice by the epp, the psd. but let us be clear that this is not the time for petty politics, because the portuguese presidency is beginning with great challenges. ensuring european unity as we continue to fight the pandemic, saving lives by vaccinating europeans, rejecting national egos in the process. saving jobs, still saving jobs, now that the third wave of the pandemic has forced us to lock down again, against the will of some hawks who want the precipitous return of the macroeconomic rules that would at this time generate unemployment and hopelessness. if 10 years ago there was money for the banks, all that was needed, now we will not cut the legs of the workers, who are not to blame for this crisis. and also prepare for the future, with an ambitious green and digital recovery that leaves no one behind. we applaud portugal and antónio costa for giving priority to the social pillar. and what progress does the portuguese presidency intend to make in this matter? can we approve the timetable for the action plan for the european pillar of social rights at the social summit in porto?
madam president, prime minister, president, vaccination and recovery are the two most urgent tasks of the portuguese presidency's mission. we have built a robust european response to the crisis, anchored in the mff, the recovery fund, the own resources decision, the recovery and resilience mechanism and the rule of law regulation. the member states have yet to ratify the own resources decision. i congratulate portugal on having already scheduled this decision for the next 29th in the national parliament. of course, budgetary support to economies has to continue beyond 2021 and the general escape clause of the stability and growth pact has to remain active in 2022. the portuguese presidencies have a tradition of leaving legacies, the treaty of lisbon for example. i'm sure the same will happen this time. i would like to conclude by quoting president sassoli, a presidency which will go down in history as having given a boost to the building of the new europe, a task which we all share. count on us, count on the european parliament.
in writing. portugal takes over the presidency at an important time for the eu: on the one hand, we have the entry into force of mff 21-27, on the other hand, we have the need to start working towards recovery from the crisis and, with this, new instruments for recovery, namely the next generation eu. portugal has the opportunity to make its mark in the eu and set the pace in terms of recovery from the crisis, but also in the implementation of the european green deal and commitments to reduce emissions and combat climate change. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the development of the transeuropean networks (tens) is based on the principle of the free movement of persons, and is designed to ensure that the community's internal market is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels. the presidency should make efforts to ensure job creation and job preservation, support smes in the sectors most affected by the crisis and ensure genuine cohesion in the european union. the european union is a global community.
the european union is a great example of a great european union, a great european union, a great european union, a great european union, a great european union. to be fair, without the union, several member states would be facing shipwreck today. the best proof of this is the temporary silence of the populists who for years have made the european project their scapegoat. we can't fail. the recovery plan and the new multiannual financial framework provide a robust response to the crisis, stimulate economic and social investment and job creation, but we have a problem. the slow and bureaucratic pace of the european union is not compatible with emergencies such as the one we are facing today. we have to make sure that the money we are investing to support workers, businesses, health systems, is actually going to be able to be put into the recovery plan and the mff. we must move towards translating the principles of the european pillar of social rights into binding rights. i am confident that the european presidency of my country, portugal, will contribute to this aim, to the social europe we are striving for.
mr president, madam minister zacharias, commissioner schmit, the impact of this pandemic on the economy and on employment, on public finances is still incalculable. it is imperative to protect citizens in health, but also to do everything possible to prevent job losses, to accentuate inequalities and asymmetries, and to increase social exclusion. the european union has built a european response to recovery, this time with the political ambition and funding to make it happen. the social dimension must be an important pillar in the economic and social recovery plans financed by the recovery fund, promoting investment and creating jobs. the digital transition and climate cannot create new poverty and new inequality. on the contrary, they have all the conditions to generate sustainable and quality employment, employment with rights, decent employment. economic and social recovery will only be effective if people are at the centre of policies.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, during this debate, the feac was discussed as a consensus instrument, an instrument of last resort that has the support of all the political groups. unfortunately, in another process, the european social fund process, we are having a very difficult negotiation with the council which, at a time when there is a much greater need for this instrument, wants less funding for this instrument. it is therefore very important that we use this consensus that we have in the european parliament to press the council to take measures to finance this instrument that are commensurate with the needs, but we also need, because this is a last-line instrument, to change the way we think, the economic response to crises, in particular the rules of economic governance because the objective of the european union and our collective objective cannot be to have instruments to distribute foodstuffs. it must be a prosperous society in which these instruments are not necessary.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other shadow rapporteurs for the work we have done on this report. the proposal did not, of course, come to the point where i would have liked it to come, or any other rapporteur would have liked it to come to the point where it came to the point where we had a good consensus on introducing this right to withdraw into community law. unfortunately, a written amendment by the epp opposing this right to shut down came out last week, essentially introducing a three-year delay for the european commission to submit a proposal. a three-year delay, we understand, is intended to prevent this european parliament from approving this legislative initiative in this term, because in three years' time we will be four months away from the elections. the epp has therefore found a way of killing this report without saying so explicitly, and has managed the feat of having the socialist rapporteur make this proposal and at the same time appeal to the commissioner who does not comply with it! we will vote against amendment no. 2 and we think that this is a very bad message to send to the tens of millions of workers who are currently... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, in a time of crisis where we need all the resources we can muster, starting with the financial resources, our national budgets cannot continue to lose 20% of corporate tax revenues every year by transferring them to tax havens. every penny we lose is needed to help rebuild and revive the economy and jobs. we need competitive european companies. it is businesses, especially smes, that are the engine of our recovery. it is therefore important to continue to rely on the internal market, with fair and loyal tax competition. it is precisely because we believe in this justice and fairness that we cannot compromise on the use of tax havens to conceal income and to avoid paying taxes that are due. the tax haven blacklist is an essential tool to flag states or regions, promote reforms in these jurisdictions and discourage their use by citizens and businesses. but we need more and better criteria for identifying tax havens. we need transparency and we need a list that effectively contributes to the fight against tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering. we need to stop this pandemic of tax evasion. this parliament has had the ambition to point the way. it takes courage for national governments to follow suit!
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner gentiloni, secretary of state ana paula zacarias, ladies and gentlemen, the difficulties faced by citizens in the current crisis make the injustice of our tax system even more glaring. citizens are making many sacrifices, small and medium-sized businesses, but at the same time some millionaires and many multinationals are taking advantage of tax havens to avoid paying taxes. this is simply unacceptable and the european union has to do a much better job of fighting tax havens. the lack of ambition, consistency and transparency of the tax haven blacklist must be overcome once and for all. as our subcommittee chairman and rapporteur paul tang has already pointed out, the cayman islands were recently removed from the list of tax havens. the citizens see, but they don't believe. it is estimated that this jurisdiction accounts for over 16% of global tax losses, a staggering figure, higher than the gdp of many member states. it is not admissible! we cannot continue in this way and we welcome the determination shown here by the presidency of the council. with this resolution we propose to revise the criteria for this list with greater transparency and democratic scrutiny, with a criterion to include in the list any country which simply does not collect taxes, as well as those which have very low taxes, below a minimum rate set by the union. but the union must also set an example and not allow similar internal practices in unfair competition, which always results in a race to the bottom in the financing of public policy. we therefore hope, and we shall be watching, that this resolution will merit a very broad consensus here in parliament, reflecting the commitment of all to these proposals.
in writing. we all agree that the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion is very important and that every effort should be made to encourage the observance of strict transparency rules in third countries included in the list of tax havens. we must therefore continue to apply pressure on those states which refuse to cooperate in tax matters. the report also calls for the creation of a european tax haven system, which would be a good way of ensuring that the taxpayer is able to pay the tax in the member state in which he is resident. tax avoidance should not be confused with tax competition, the legal means available to member states for reducing taxes. in the very difficult circumstances of the covid-19 crisis, we must see that reducing the tax burden on companies is the key to emerging from the crisis and to competitiveness today: this must of course be planned and implemented by member states along the lines of responsible fiscal management, depending on the capacity of the country to bear the burden. hungary is leading the way in this area, as we have continued to reduce taxes since the crisis, saving hundreds of thousands of jobs. the result is clear, with employment levels at the beginning of 2021 only one percent below pre-crisis levels. in the light of these extraordinary results, it is even more irresponsible, in the present circumstances, to adopt a decision whose proposals and conclusions are completely contrary to the objectives and essential requirements of economic crisis management.
the next item is the debate on the council statement on the lack of transparency in council appointments to the eucja (2021/2501 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words and no blue cards accepted in any of the debates of this session. the commission will also be able to make use of the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, first i would like to express the council’s and the portuguese presidency’s attachment to the european public prosecutor’s office. ensuring that the eppo starts functioning at the earliest opportunity is a priority for us. in this perspective it’s also equally important that the eppo, with its important mandate of prosecuting the crimes which affect the financial interests of the union, is a solid and credible office. this is in the interests of all stakeholders, including the eu institutions and the eu citizens. we all hope that the eppo will start functioning as currently planned in march this year. in achieving this objective, the council has worked in close cooperation with this parliament, which resulted in the appointment in october 2019 of the chief european prosecutor. the council has actively worked on the establishment of the eppo with a series of legislative texts, aiming at implementing the eppo regulation. in 2019-2020 substantive work was done with the objective of appointing european prosecutors. in july 2020 the decision appointing european prosecutors – one for each of the 22 participating member states in this reinforced cooperation – was adopted by the council, and this allowed the eppo college to start functioning in september 2020. the work which led to the appointment of the european prosecutors was carried out in full transparency and in the full respect for the applicable rules. i want to underline here that the council implementing decision on the operating rules of the selection panel states, and i quote, ‘the selection panel shall rank the candidates according to their qualifications and experience. the ranking shall indicate the selection panel’s order of preference and shall not be binding on the council’. the council thoroughly analysed the selection panel’s opinion on every candidate and followed the proposed ranking on 19 nominations. in the other three it decided otherwise, making use of its discretionary power. moreover, in addition to the legislative acts published in the official journal, all documents pertaining to the process have been handed to the interested parties when requested and in accordance with the council’s rules on access to documents. i’m aware of the fact that some of the appointments have been contested and that there has been criticism regarding the designation of prosecutors of some member states, including my own. i speak here on behalf of the council and i do not want to go into detail at this stage. so i will listen to you carefully and i will be ready to answer your questions. but ladies and gentlemen, let me state that the establishment of the eppo has required much more time than expected, with huge delays linked particularly with the pandemic. it is now time to combine our efforts to allow the eppo to become operational and start its activities on the protection of the union’s financial interests against criminal offences. this is something that the parliament wants. this is something that the council wants. and we need to work together on this.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, portugal is much more than a member state to me. it shares geographical boundaries, history and culture with my country. together we left the dictatorship and entered the european union. that is why i am saddened to have to condemn the behaviour of the portuguese government. but the facts are irrefutable. the portuguese government lied to the council about the qualifications of one of the candidates for the post of european prosecutor and as a result of that lie a decision was taken which should not have been taken. i do not know which is worse, the excuse for administrative error or the theory of an international anti-portuguese conspiracy put forward by prime minister costa. this kind of nonsense is common elsewhere and does the portuguese presidency a disservice. the european public prosecutor's office is an instrument at the service of all europeans to fight fraud and to preserve the rule of law, which has now come under the shadow of suspicion. two weeks ago i was approaching the european commission, along with other colleagues, to request an inquiry into this. i am asking for it again here today and i am calling on the portuguese government to take up its responsibility to the portuguese people and to the europeans. lies must have consequences and corrupting the rule of law cannot go unpunished. mr. costa, the portuguese deserve an apology, and we don't deserve to look like idiots.
i am more than myself and i rise from the heights of almost 900 years of history to answer mr pons, behind whom are the real instigators of this disinformation campaign, whose only aim is to get at the portuguese presidency of the council and, by extension, the european public prosecutor's office itself. but let's face it. let's get down to business. the portuguese candidates for european prosecutor were selected by the superior council of public prosecutors, an independent body. the european council appointed the first of the list drawn up by this body. the communication from the european council is clear: it says that the nominee obtained the highest ranking in the ranking of the high council of the public prosecutor's office... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, colleagues, i’m a bit shocked after what i just heard. just today, a president who for four years has been dismissing all criticism as a conspiracy against him, has left the white house – fortunately. can we please stop following his example? because what happened here is, objectively, very shocking. madam president-in-office, you said that you are fully behind eppo and the fight against corruption. we all are. then i ask myself: why have not just the portuguese government but the belgian government, the bulgarian government and the entire council jeopardised the function of eppo? it is completely irresponsible. there is an independent panel of experts who’ve made a selection and they’ve made a recommendation. there was absolutely no reason why the council should deviate from that recommendation, because that’s what we have the panel for. because if you want to choose the best person for eppo, then all the council had to do was follow the recommendation. what other objectives could you have in deviating from the recommendation other than, i don’t know, creating jobs for the boys? i don’t know. unfortunately, in the council this is not an incident, but it is a pattern. what we need is full transparency. portugal, first of all, has to provide full and accurate information and fully clarify the matter. the council must provide full clarity on the process and the considerations for the choice of candidates. and finally, i would like to call on the council – and i hope you will pass on the message to your colleagues – to commit here and now to refraining from ever deviating again from the recommended ranking and avoid this situation.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the portuguese high council of the public prosecutor's office has selected a different candidate from the one indicated by the european union committee, and the portuguese government has chosen the candidate nominated by the portuguese body. we do not object to the selection made by the portuguese authorities. on the contrary, we recognize that they have greater competence in the choice of the european prosecutor to be appointed by portugal. this procedure is marked by discrepancies between the information contained in the curriculum vitae of the candidate chosen by the portuguese government and the document accompanying that curriculum vitae. it is important to know on what documentation the european council based its appointment of the prosecutor nominated by portugal. it is necessary to find out what happened and prevent such a situation from happening again. we are in agreement with the commission's proposal to clarify this situation, in the interests of transparency and rigor, but we are not counting on it to be a major issue, which is, above all, obviously politically motivated.
mr president, the name proposed by portugal for the european public prosecutor's office corresponds to the first name selected by the high council of the public prosecutor's office and this seems to us to be an appropriate procedure. the serious mess that has occurred, with the provision of false information in the cv of this candidate, must have, and has already had, political consequences, in particular with the dismissal of the director-general of the services who provided this false information and with the assumption of political responsibility by the minister of justice, who should have verified the information and did not verify it. i do, however, think it is a bit unfortunate that the parties which have sparked this debate have hidden behind other debates, behind other members, in order to do so, and i suggest to the epp members who are concerned about the rule of law that they look to their own group and to the fidesz party which is part of it, and to the portuguese members who are equally concerned that they stop making alliances with the far right in portugal, because the future of democracy in our country and in europe is more at stake on this ground.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. fellow workers! our common goal should be to look after the welfare of women, to ensure that women have the same opportunities and opportunities as men, no matter where they live in the world. our common concern here in the european union should be to respect the treaties and the competences of the member states. our common concern should be to respect the fundamental right to life, from which all other rights derive. unfortunately, the report has been tainted by leftist ideology and it really spoils everything. it's actually become a way for the left to present a political manifesto. and yet, beyond the political divides, we should focus on closing the wage gap, the pension gap, reducing, and preferably eliminating violence against women: sexual, cyber, psychological. we have so much to do together. there are 500,000 cases of female genital mutilation in the european union. it is here in the european union that the marriage of underage girls to adult men takes place. it's time to stop. it is here in the european union that women's rights are being violated. let's talk about the real rights of women. and the answer to those rights is a resolution of the european conservatives and reformists that addresses all of those challenges. i'm asking for her support.
madam president, if i am to believe the reports on women’s issues we discuss today, the position of women is getting worse by the minute. there seems to be gender gaps everywhere caused by discrimination, digitalisation, covid or otherwise. we are seeing more problems than we can solve and that is why we’ll vote against all reports. the larger the scope, the less chance of positive results. we have to choose our battles to win the war. let’s concentrate on the important issues: discrimination of women on the labour market, the housing market, the health service, education and above all, discrimination by member state governments. let’s focus on these five important battlegrounds and stop searching for new topics and new gender gaps. in der beschränkung zeigt sich der meister. focus on what is really important and bring the gap to a close.
madam president! the covid pandemic has brought to light the enormity of the tragedy of women who, locked in their homes, so often experience physical, psychological, economic and sexual violence. it also showed that despite all the inequalities, women were on the front lines of the fight against the virus. i do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, why so many politicians in europe would want to ignore the issues of inequality and violence? why are so many trying to tell us that these are secondary and substitute subjects? does he close his eyes to the fact that we have people of a different sexual orientation living among us? why do so many people think that if we remove the word gender from all eu legislative documents, we will win the fight against some imaginary, dangerous ideology? but equality, ladies and gentlemen, is not an ideology. by remaining silent, we give our consent to the violence, the exploitation, the hate, the sexism and the discrimination that seem to be increasing in the modern world. i would like to live, ladies and gentlemen, in an ideal world where women are as likely to be in leadership roles as men, including in sectors that are now male-dominated, such as it, technology, engineering, and not just victims of cyberbullying, where there is no wage gap and no digital divide, where there is no justification for violence in culture, custom, religion, tradition or honor, a world where we are on the side of the victims, not the perpetrators. i hope that our debate and our action will help all of this and change what women across europe are waiting for.
madam president, commissioner, i once heard a story about a computer science teacher who was proud that all his students had taken part in the construction of a robot, adding that the boys had programmed and the girls had sewn the robes for the robot. i think it's a good example of how, from very early on, stereotypes about women's participation in the digital economy are being reproduced. the under-representation in this important sector of the present and the future is well reflected in the figures. only 17% of the 1.3 million people studying information technology are women. the gender pay gap is the largest in this area, 19% versus 16%, and it is also in ict that the highest percentage of all-male boards is recorded. the commission will also be supporting the development of a european network of experts on the digital divide, including the european commission's digital agenda for women, the european commission's digital agenda for women, the european commission's digital agenda for women, the european commission's digital agenda for women and the european commission's digital agenda for women. commissioner, we hope that this report will inspire you to promote the equal participation of women in the digital economy with quantifiable and controllable objectives. i would like to see us here in a year's time to hear what the commission has done and what the results have been. once and for all, it would be nice if robots were dressed by boys and girls and programmed as well.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward this proposal.
madam president, any strategy for equality must be based on employment policies which eliminate discrimination in access to employment and which reinforce employment with rights, collective recruitment, the prohibition of precariousness. it calls for improvements in working conditions, in particular by regulating and reducing working hours and demanding general increases in wages and pensions and living conditions. it must be translated into measures to eradicate poverty and social exclusion and to combat its causes, into measures to defend and promote universal and quality public services such as housing and justice, free access to education and health, including access to sexual and reproductive rights, into measures to protect maternity by extending leave periods and ensuring that they are paid at 100%, and to protect against illness by enshrining, giving effect to or extending rights in law. it must ensure public investment in the expansion of a network of public facilities at all levels of care, from day nurseries and kindergartens to care networks that meet the needs of the most dependent. it must encourage the states to ensure that mechanisms and instruments are put in place to combat all forms of violence, whether in the family, the workplace or elsewhere, measures which european union policies have opposed or even prevented, but which we will continue to call for. finally, we cannot but regret that a strategy for equality refers to prostitution as sex work and not as violence and exploitation.
the worst fears expressed in this house seven months ago have come true. the entry into force of the national security law in the territory of hong kong has caused a vertiginous degradation of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the inhabitants of the region. since then, and in this short period of time alone, more than 400 political activists have been the target of intimidation, arbitrary detention and sentencing. i would like to draw your attention to the case of the 12 pro-democracy activists who were captured by china, 10 of whom were sentenced to prison for illegally crossing the continental waters. among them is tsz lun kok, a young hong kong citizen who also holds portuguese nationality and is therefore a european citizen. i join the voice of the high representative in calling for the immediate release of all these young people, but the european union must take a firm and uncompromising approach, with consequences, to all human rights violations in hong kong and also in mainland china, tibet and xinjiang.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, mario draghi will always be known for saving the euro. you and your team, madam lagarde, can also be part of history if you continue to do what it takes to save the european economy through this crisis. the time we live in asks for decisive action. the european citizens deserve a response that lives up to their expectations – a swift, fair and sustainable recovery. the truth is that the ecb has been playing a crucial role in it, while the decisions for a coordinated, mutualised fiscal response take their time to deliver. so, let me congratulate you and your team, madam lagarde, for having reacted to the pandemic without delay, in particular through the pandemic emergency purchase programme (pepp), but also with targeted lending, collateral easing, among other measures. they were essential to keep the european economy afloat and this report recognises that much. but now it’s necessary to finance the recovery. we all agree that a good part of this push can come from fiscal policy. we wish the results from the european bazooka to come soon. but monetary policy can and should still go a long way. it should also contribute to the structural objectives of the union like well-being, employment and yes, tackling climate change, as you well pointed out, madam lagarde. for starters, the support from the ecb to the economy cannot be withdrawn in the near future. on the contrary, it must be reinforced to stimulate the recovery, now and in the long run, because the faster and more durable the recovery, the less economic and social consequences for europe, for the european project and for our citizens. you promised to use all the tools to produce the most effective, efficient, and proportionate outcome to support the recovery. it is a statement that meets the ambition of draghi’s ‘whatever it takes’, and this parliament notes that and compliments you for that. now it’s time to deliver on that promise – whatever non-traditional measures it might take, i would add. it’s time for action.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their work. the european union has almost 10% of the working poor, but an even greater percentage of hypocritical speeches about the situation these workers have reached. the same political centre and european institutions which deplore the plight of the working poor have actively promoted the precariousness of labour relations which has generated and aggravated this situation. the european union regulates almost everything there is to regulate about the goods and services that circulate in its internal market, but not only does it not regulate, it promotes the deregulation of the rights of workers who produce these goods and provide these services. the european union enforces and imposes deficit targets, but it ignores, disregards and fails its own poverty targets. a good example of this laxity is the minimum wage directive, which is not really a directive at all, because it does not even require that there be a minimum wage in all the member states. this is where we have to start taking labour rights seriously if we are to take the problem of poverty at work seriously.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. hungary chose work over aid. when you have a job, you have everything. most importantly, it's a chance to reduce poverty. in our country, the government has reduced poverty through tangible means: tax cuts, support for families and children, responsible fiscal policy. the oecd data show that the gap between the poorest and the richest has been steadily decreasing between 2010 and 2018 and is currently below the oecd national average. it's smaller than in germany, for example. the report contains a bunch of empty promises. the only way to cover that is to raise taxes. the hungarian left is openly in favor of raising taxes by introducing property tax. his plans include raising personal income tax and re-imposing and raising corporate tax. let's see what we can do. they want to establish a minimum income above the minimum wage and the minimum pension. they want to give ngos direct access to eu funds. the reference to social dumping would be detrimental to the citizens of eastern europe. we tried to correct the text with fidesz and the people's party. we hope that it will serve that purpose. we must always reduce the gap between the richest and the poorest.
member of the commission. herr präsident, ladies and gentlemen, the covid-19 crisis, the pandemic, is probably a natural disaster. poverty, the fact that children are condemned to exclusion, is not a natural disaster. it is the result of deep-seated dysfunctions in our society. if this is the result of deep-seated dysfunctions in our society, we have the key to making amends and changing that. i agree: we need economic growth, sustainable growth, respectful of nature, respectful of ecological balances. respectful, too, of the work of women and men. we need innovation, and that's why we've been debating investing in human capital, in education. we need entrepreneurs who create wealth, who create businesses. but what we also need, and i repeat mrs lagarde's words, is for everyone to have a share in it, for everyone to feel that their work is honoured, that they work with dignity. this is the ultimate goal we must pursue, because what is at stake is the cohesion of our societies, the future of our young people, our children. but it is also the future of europe. because even here we hear sirens telling us that all this is, of course, europe's fault. this is why the porto summit, the implementation of an ambitious social action plan, is so important. yes, a minimum wage is essential. it is essential for all those who work and cannot live with dignity from their work. i appeal to the conscience of all those who have doubts, who have legal or other reservations about this minimum wage course. think for a moment of the millions of workers who sometimes work more than 40 hours a week and who cannot provide a decent life for their families. i believe that making progress through an adequate, appropriate minimum wage, which improves their living conditions, which also improves their working conditions, is the least that europe can offer them.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 9 february 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. we are discussing the poverty of those who work in a worrying social context marked by the existence of millions of workers and their families at risk of poverty. this picture was exacerbated by the effects of the covid-19 outbreak, but was already highly concerning and unresolved. we recall that in 2017, three years before covid-19, 20.5 million workers and households were at risk of poverty in the eu28, workers whose wages were not enough to lift them out of poverty! the eu and its neoliberal policies bear responsibility for the worsening of poverty and social exclusion, and we should not forget this. in the present situation, in which thousands of workers have lost their jobs, thousands more have been laid off, thousands of selfemployed workers and micro and small entrepreneurs have been forced to cease their activity, it is estimated that the poverty of the working people has reached very worrying dimensions. it is urgent to respond to this scourge. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's social policy. at the same time, there is an urgent need to invest in the social functions of the state, social security, health and education.
on behalf of the left group. other madam president, the mutualisation of the debt which underpins this recovery fund is good news for the european union, news which has taken a long time to come. i can still remember a time when such a proposal was considered to be totally irresponsible. but this recovery fund is still a debt, and we should not deceive the citizens in this respect. mutual debt is debt and it is being contracted on account of budgets and future cohesion policy if we do not finish the job of approving the own resources that can pay it. the second good news about this recovery fund is that the punitive regime which was approved by this parliament, negotiated by the socialists and the right and approved by the main groups in this house, has fallen in the council and this, at a time of back-slapping championships, is news which should embarrass this parliament. we have been in a position of pressure from the standpoint of european solidarity, and it is a pity that it was the council which showed this house the seriousness of this precedent. one very important aspect is that, despite the fall of the punitive regime, there remains an umbilical cord to the european semester and the threat of the return of the famous macroeconomic conditionality. and here it is not worthwhile to appeal to the commission not to repeat the mistakes it has made in the past, because we know that it will repeat them. the regulation creates that link and gives those powers to the commission and it is naive to think that the european commission will not use them. once again, it will be up to the member states to resist these impositions and to resist the repetition of the mistakes of the past.
mr. president, the recovery and resilience facility is the heart of our economic recovery. we have a great responsibility and we will be here to monitor and scrutinize the execution. it is now up to the member states to do their part and to apply the resources swiftly, competently and transparently. the big public health challenge is containment of the pandemic. the great challenge of recovery is to turn this plan into concrete results. but just as the blunders in the vaccination plans of some member states are incomprehensible, any carelessness or negligence in the application of this mechanism will be unacceptable. over the last year, we've learned that the time of the pandemic outweighs the time of politics. it's time to reverse the trend and replace the ads with solutions. europeans do not need propaganda from their governments, they need answers. they do not need captivations, but concrete investments. they do not need excuses, but transparency in the use of funds. they don't need money spent on bureaucracy, but they need it to get into the real economy: into families and businesses. what the many entrepreneurs and workers who have supported the european welfare state until now need is for it not to fail them now and to allow them to rebuild their lives, their businesses and thus be able to contribute again to a brighter future for all.
the multiannual financial framework and the next generation eu are essential pillars of the european response to an unprecedented crisis, because of their scale and because they are based on the basic principle of european solidarity, the principle which governs the issuance of common european debt, i.e. the mutualisation of this debt. a joint effort at a decisive step in european history. the recovery and resilience facility is a unique opportunity to bring about real change, enabling the european union and all member states to emerge from this crisis with stronger, more cohesive, more equal economies. a shift towards a green and sustainable transition, based on a digital transformation of citizens and businesses. but this requires complementarity: complementarity with the national reform plans, complementarity with the budget of the european union, from the structural funds to horizon europe, to investeu, or to the eu4health programme. together, all these instruments are the key to change. it is therefore essential that the next generation eu be ratified by national parliaments to have a fund, but it is also essential that partnerships between the european commission and the member states work to facilitate the adoption of national economic and social recovery plans. its rapid adoption and good implementation is the urgency of recovery. we all have to do our part.
in writing. it is essential to ensure that the recovery and resilience mechanism strictly fulfils its purpose of repairing the damage caused by the covid-19 crisis, both in the labour market and in other sectors. the facility should contribute to making eu economies more sustainable, more resilient and better prepared for the challenges posed by the green and digital transitions. to achieve this, the guidelines for member states need to be clear. it must also be ensured that the distribution of support is fair and responds to the challenges that the regions will face. in this respect, special attention is needed for the outermost regions, where unemployment has reached worrying levels due to the high dependence of some of these regions on sectors that have been severely affected, such as tourism and transport. it is of the utmost importance to ensure that access to this mechanism is facilitated and de-bureaucratized in order for its implementation to be successful. monitoring of implementation is essential to ensure that there is no overlap between the use of this mechanism and other funding tools. this mechanism should be inclusive and member states should ensure that no one is left behind.
in writing. of course i want to express my satisfaction with the absolutely meaningful vote that formalizes the recovery and resilience mechanism. the eu, in a proactive attitude and by resorting to new solutions, has created an instrument which, i am sure, will allow us to respond to the various dimensions of the crisis we are experiencing. it also proved that there is always an alternative, showing that solidarity and the use of new solutions can take us away from the prophets of the inevitability of the recessionary policies that many have advocated and, worse, put into practice in the last decade. responding to a crisis of this magnitude with a response of this magnitude gives us hope and at the same time allows us to show europeans that the institutions can take action that has a real impact on the lives of citizens. at the end of the day, we're doing what we were elected to do: making decisions and finding solutions that impact people's lives. i repeat a phrase i have already uttered here: let's never forget that there are people out there watching us.
madam president, commissioner, the fight for women's rights, labour rights and equality, but also for sexual and reproductive health rights, has been a decades-long struggle. in this debate, we want to highlight and value the struggle of women in poland, but not only in slovakia and other countries, who, even in times of pandemic, continue to fight in the streets not only for sexual and reproductive rights, including access to voluntary termination of pregnancy, but also to combat serious legal setbacks. portuguese women, in their struggle for the decriminalization of voluntary termination of pregnancy, have received the solidarity of women from various countries. we are now returning this support by giving a boost to an initiative in portugal in solidarity with the struggle of polish women, to which outstanding women with interventions in various areas have joined. we believe that legislative setbacks on voluntary termination of pregnancy are an attack on women's health, rights and dignity, with increased risks for women from the most disadvantaged social and economic groups.
mr president, madam secretary of state, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have three points to make. how is post-vaccination and post-infection immunity being assessed? we need to know if, with vaccination, we are protecting people and for how long. my question is: when will these results be available and if these studies show that an annual booster of the vaccine will be needed, how is the commission preparing for a scenario where sufficient doses will have to be procured so that member states can vaccinate their population repeatedly to ensure immunity? they presented ambitious targets last month to vaccinate 70 percent of the adult population by the summer. considering the scarcity and capacity problems of industry that have already been addressed here, what are the strategies that they will implement to achieve these targets or whether these targets will be changed to be in line with current production capacity. i would like to end my speech with a plea from the citizens. the european union has been advancing this vaccination process in a structured and coordinated way, and has set up a platform to monitor the entire process in the member states. i would ask for joint dissemination work between the council and the commission to ensure that this information reaches all citizens. for them and for a true european health union.
in writing. the regulation of social networks is not an easy subject for debate, since diametrically opposed fundamental rights are at stake here, but this is a pressing reality from which we cannot escape. it is therefore for parliament, in its role as co-legislator, to weigh up the legal rights protected by freedom of expression and information in order to find a balance between conflicting rights and, above all, to safeguard the public interest. and this is just as true if we consider that on the one hand, social media can unite people around common goals (responses to the climate emergency, mobilizing for protests that demand political and social change, among many other examples), as it can, with equal ease, separate them, through misinformation campaigns, from the call to hate, violence, persecution. the need for regulation is therefore urgent, but the terms on which it will be carried out and the criteria it must meet must be carefully defined so that the difficult balance of values mentioned above is achieved, as has been said, in such a way as to safeguard the public interest at all times.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, whenever there are initiatives to deregulate finance, the talk is always the same, it is to help the economy, it is to help small and mediumsized enterprises and now, apparently, it is also to help the environment. but it's not very well understood, and more confusing than any information in any financial product prospectus, is the rationale for these two initiatives. if the information that is being cut from the prospectuses for financial products in this proposal is not relevant information, it is redundant, it only confuses, it is not very clear why this information is being removed permanently, and it is also not very clear how removing information from the prospectuses helps the economic recovery. if financial products are good, then all the information will only convince investors to bet on those financial products. if the products are not that good, then the doctrine that presides over this proposal is to deceive small investors to help the economy which is, as they say, to help the banks. financial deregulation has never served to recover from any financial crisis. how many financial crises will this commission help to provoke before it learns this simple rule? i come from a country where hundreds, in fact thousands of small investors were deceived by a bank, losing their life savings, precisely because of the lack of relevant information about the products they were subscribing to. the guilty of these crimes died unmarried. neither the european institutions nor the national institutions have been held responsible for these frauds and i would very much like to be able to tell these small investors that such things will not happen again. these proposals do not help to fulfill that promise.
mr president, as a response to the crisis and the need to facilitate diversified sources of finance for our smes, the commission proposed a quick fix to mifid to ease some of the requirements companies face to raise money on the markets on a temporary basis. unfortunately, a balanced solution was not the result of the negotiation here at parliament. the epp negotiator insisted on relaxing the rules too much, taking us back to a deregulation paradigm, similar to what we had before the financial crisis. for us that is not acceptable. we cannot live with insufficient transparency, clarity and investor protection from mis-selling. these are key elements in the market and we have the experience from the financial crisis a decade ago to know where deregulation leads. have we learned nothing from the past? madam commissioner, this reform has become dangerous; thus, our group does not support it. but we still count on you for a balanced structural revision of mifid this year.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank members for their contributions. it’s been a robust debate, which i think is really important. what i see and what you have spoken of today is a pandemic, a health crisis, a very difficult economic situation and businesses that are struggling to survive. and let me be very clear. the people who will benefit from the capital markets recovery package are small companies, renewable energy producers and retail investors. mr ferber and colleagues are debating – it’s excellent to hear it from this podium! but let me continue. our proposals to amend mifid and prospectus will make it easier for capital markets to support european businesses so that they can recover from the crisis by raising essential equity capital. they will also facilitate the involvement of investors in the capital markets, while preserving our high levels of investor protection. as i’ve already said, this package will also be a positive signal to the financial markets in general and companies in particular. this package shows that the eu can adapt quickly to changing circumstances to support the real economy. the proposed measures are important and i hope they will be adopted and take effect as soon as possible. but these amendments are not the end of the road. in particular, i’m ready, with my services, to engage with all of you on our retail investment strategy, where we will take a holistic view of concerns on investor protection raised by the application of mifid and other sectoral legislation. we will also closely cooperate with parliament on a broader review of mifir to enhance market transparency. i’d like to refer to some of the comments that were made. as i said, i enjoy a robust debate. this is a vital issue. we know that our capital markets are not fully developed in europe, we know that banks cannot be the only source of funding for our smes and our businesses, and therefore we need to work together to strengthen our capital markets. and yes, you are right to refer to crises of the past. i recall 2008, and many of us know what happened to families and businesses because of that, but in fact in today’s crisis, because we regulated the banks effectively, we now see that the banks and the capital markets can be part of the solution, continuing to lend to businesses. i therefore think that anyone who might suggest that this commission, or me as commissioner for financial stability, is on a mission to deregulate, please note that this is not the case. if anything, my experience of the past and my work in this parliament previously make me more determined to have effective legislation and regulation which protects investors and provides us with a strong capital market. so can i say very clearly there will be no deregulation on my watch. i know that i won’t persuade many of you to vote in favour of this, but i hope that you understand the sincerity of my contribution to this debate. you know we will come forward very soon and look again at mifid, so there will be an opportunity for us to work together. as we look forward, i hope we can bring our sides together because we need a better coordinated approach on these issues through the recovery, because if we don’t have that, our companies will struggle. we will not be able to recreate employment in sectors where it is absolutely essential. so, despite the diverse views and the deep divisions, i take from all of you a desire to work better together, to strengthen our resolve around capital markets, and to protect our smes and our workers, and i stand ready to do the same with you and cooperate fully.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 10 february 2021.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on 25 years after the beijing declaration and platform for action: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. as in previous sessions, the parliament's liaison offices in the various member states will also be responsible for remote assistance.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, commissioner, honourable members, gender equality is a priority for the portuguese presidency, and we are determined to do everything we can to tackle the emerging challenges and to push this agenda forward. the 25th anniversary of the beijing platform for action was an opportunity to take stock of the progress achieved, to reconfirm the commitments undertaken, and to identify new challenges, reminding us that all member states have a clear obligation to eliminate discrimination against women, and ensure that they fully enjoy all human rights. much progress has been made over the past few decades to the benefit of women and girls in the european union and across the world. however, many challenges remain, and we must step up and step up gender equality policies. unfortunately, the pandemic has aggravated some of these challenges. we need therefore to make an assessment of the impact of covid-19 on gender equality – in particular on labour market participation, incomes, and reconciliation of work, personal and family life. the council has recently also focused on the issue of care work. during the current pandemic, more than ever, it is time we recognise and value the importance of unpaid care work, giving credit to those who perform it and keep our societies running. other challenges that need to be addressed comprise gender discrimination, especially against more vulnerable groups of women, threats against sexual and reproductive health and rights, violence against women, and issues arising from digitalisation, including cyber—violence. equally important is to tackle the practices, prejudices and customs within society, including those carried out by private persons and organisations that hinder the fulfilment of women’s human rights. the most notable ongoing policy development in the union regarding women’s rights, and in particular violence against women, is in relation to the istanbul convention. although the proceedings on the eu ratification of the convention are temporarily suspended, pending the european court of justice opinion, calls have been made at council level for ratification by member states that have not yet done so. such ratification will precede adoption by the eu. in this regard, the portuguese presidency will host in april a conference in lisbon to mark the 10th anniversary of the convention. coming back to women and the labour market, the presidency will also work to unblock the directive on gender balance on company boards, and stands ready to start negotiations on binding pay transparency measures, on the basis of the forthcoming commission proposal. we also need to keep abreast of technological developments, and make sure that women and girls can seize the opportunities offered by digitalisation. finally, we must ensure gender equality mainstreaming across the implementation of the european pillar of social rights. with that in mind, the upcoming informal employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council (epsco) meeting will address the issue of gender equality in social europe. mr president, honourable members, commissioner, gender equality is also at the heart of our international engagement. the council is finalising an ambitious eu position paper in preparation for the 26th session of the un commission on the status of women. this will take place in new york next march. the priority theme for this year is women’s full and effective participation and decision—making in public life, as well as the elimination of violence for achieving gender equality and the empowering of women and girls. this topic is very timely in the covid context, not least against the backdrop of the shadow pandemic of violence against women during lockdowns, but also with a view to ensuring that women are in the forefront of developing solutions during the pandemic and their recovery phase. the rights of women and girls, as well as gender equality needs to be addressed in a cross—cutting manner in all the eu external action, on the basis of the eu consensus on development, and the rights—based approach to development. we must recognise that, in many parts of the world, girls and women continue to be systematically left behind and discriminated against. in this context, the portuguese presidency welcomes the third gender action plan presented by the commission and the high representative at the end of last year. we look forward to working with the member states, the commission, and the european external action service (eeas) as well as with the european parliament to implement and advance this ambitious and utterly necessary agenda. the same is true for csdp missions and operations, where women are still under—represented at most levels. we hope that the eeas will develop a dedicated strategy and action plan to provide the systemic mainstreaming of human rights and gender aspects, promoting a better representation of women in csdp missions. in conclusion, much has been done and much more remains to be done. in numbers and relevant sectors, we need to look ahead, and we need to use the relevant elements of the beijing platform for action. gender equality is, and must remain, at the very core of everything that we do at union level.
member of the commission. – mr president, i thank the honourable members for putting the 25th anniversary of the beijing declaration and platform for action on the agenda today. this anniversary provides us with an excellent opportunity to discuss the situation of gender equality and empowerment of women and girls in this particular time. it is important to reflect on where we are and where we are heading to. the beijing declaration and platform for action was adopted 25 years ago. it is the most inspiring global blueprint of gender equality and it still guides us today. the beijing conference was a fundamental step in the global commitment that we have jointly embraced since. progress has been made in these years but girls and women still face many hurdles and challenges that remain unaddressed. across the world, including in some of our own member states, we see a serious threat for, and backlash on, women’s rights. this backlash manifests itself in various forms and settings, like for instance in the opposition we have seen in the eu to adhere to legal frameworks to combat violence against women. this opposition is sometimes based on the mere fact that the word ‘gender’ is used. this directly endangers the monitoring of the eu’s commitments under the beijing platform for action, as well as the work the eu does in terms of gender equality. it leads to a situation where no consensus can be found among member states on council conclusions that aim to report on the eu’s progress on the beijing platform for action. we should all mobilise our forces to counter this very worrying trend and not let this impede our international commitments under the beijing platform for action. every year during the meeting of the commission on the status of women (csw) at the un general assembly, we reaffirm the commitments agreed in the beijing declaration and platform for action and the engagement to embrace the new challenges ahead. the united nations secretary-general called for a pushback against the pushback. power remains a crucial element empowering women and girls, calls for equal rights for girls and women as boys and men. we need to make these equal rights a reality for all. this year’s csw session deals with full and effective participation of women in public and political life. it highlights the importance of women and girls as agents of change and as decision-makers and leaders on all issues and at all levels. this is crucial for adequately translating their needs and skills into policies to achieve gender equality and a more peaceful, secure, just and sustainable world. to reach this we need to help all enablers that allow for women’s and girls’ meaningful participation in public and political life. we also need to eradicate gender-based violence, including online violence, that risks to silence women, and we started our work on eu-wide legislation addressing this. in fact, last monday we launched a public consultation on this topic. this is a key priority for us, including as part of the generation equality forum, where the eu is a co-leader on gender-based violence. in order to tackle gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls, the commission adopted two key policy strategies: the gender equality strategy 2020-2025 for our internal action and the eu gender action plan iii for our external action. the crisis we are experiencing has amplified their relevance and urgency to advance and push further the beijing commitments and make a real change in the life of women and girls. the widening of socio-economic inequalities for women in particular, the spike in domestic violence and the digital gender gap are all at the centre of our areas of engagement, both internally and externally. the eu is committed to lead by example. this is firmly positioned at the core of the eu policy on gender equality and women’s empowerment. we do this by establishing the requirement of a gender-responsive leadership for all eu leaders and managers in the gender action plan iii. gender mainstreaming is one of the core principles of both the gender equality strategy and the gender action plan iii that we presented last year. this is a crucial principle to advance on gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls. it is central to the philosophy of the 12 beijing critical areas of concern. it underlines the importance of mainstreaming agenda perspective throughout all the sustainable development goals of agenda 2030 and its key principle not to leave anyone behind. it is also a crucial principle in the implementation of the women peace and security agenda, aiming for gender equality, peace and security. we need to advance not in words but in deeds, including through our financial commitments. the eu long-term budget 2021-2027, together with next generation eu, with a stimulus package of eur 1.8 trillion, will ensure financing for the promotion of gender equality. eighty-five per cent of all our external actions will be gender-responsive. they will promote gender equality and women’s empowerment across sectors of intervention. i particularly want to congratulate the european parliament on its successful role in ensuring a gender-sensitive perspective in the eu budget and recovery. together with the agenda 2030, the beijing declaration and platform for action, remains a crucial reference document to advance gender equality and to empower women and girls. the covid-19 pandemic and the growing backlash against women’s rights highlight the importance of our continued vigilance on gender equality. it is important now more than ever to keep working together to achieve the objectives that we have set.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, after 25 years of the beijing declaration, one would have assumed that we would have met already those 12 targets that we set there for women’s equality and for gender equality. but even though there has been some substantial progress, especially in some areas like in the eu, globally we have seen little progress, on one hand. and on the other hand, we have seen some backlashes, as we have seen in sexual and reproductive rights, even in some of the eu member states. and this is something that needs to come to end. what the parliament says is: looking through the targets of the beijing +25 evaluation, highlighting the points that need to be developed further acutely, and then underlies digitalisation, violence against women, especially in social media, the pay gap that still exists, the pension gap that comes out of that. full parity in representation is still lacking, and social rights, as has been said, very unequally treating male and female people. so, i encourage the commission and congratulate their activity in their gender equality programme, it’s a good one. and i encourage you to read very carefully the parliament’s resolution and other reports that we have made in this area, and we ensure the full support of whatever activities you are going to take in this field.
on behalf of the s&d group dear prime minister, minister, commissioner, colleagues, the beijing declaration is the most comprehensive global agenda for the promotion of gender equality, and today, a quarter of a century later, it is clear that while progress has been made in relation to girls and women, particularly in europe, overall progress is in fact unacceptably slow and risks taking the hard-won gains in gender equality to the downside. to date, no european union country has implemented the objectives set out in the beijing declaration. although all member states have ratified the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women (which, incidentally, entered into force more than 40 years ago), the persistence and even greater inequality is, unfortunately, a painful reality. ladies and gentlemen, gender inequality is a multifaceted phenomenon. it not only covers all aspects of the labour market, from lower pay for women in the same job to low job security, which in itself leads to a large gender pension gap, which increases the risk of poverty and exclusion, especially for older women and single mothers. gender inequality is not just an economic phenomenon - it is also violence against women and the sexual exploitation of women and girls. and this year we will mark the tenth anniversary of the istanbul convention. but it is a shame that to this day some member states have not ratified the istanbul convention. i would therefore urge the member states, the council and the commission to do everything possible to ratify the istanbul convention, so that we can send a clear message that protection against violence is a priority for the european union. the covid-19 pandemic has made it very clear what gender inequality really means. the social and economic impact of covid is disproportionately burdensome for women, as this pandemic has had the greatest impact on women-dominated sectors and professions, such as healthcare, social services, education, retail workers, cashiers, cleaners, women running small businesses. and there is a very real risk that this pandemic will only exacerbate already high inequalities and reverse the trend of progress. so i really urge both the commission, the commissioner, the presidency and my colleague to join forces to make real progress.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, 25 years after the beijing declaration as has been said, the most comprehensive global normative framework on women's rights, we have to recognize that no country in the world has achieved the goals of equality; not even the countries of the european union. there are still many challenges to be met: differences in pay, in public representation, in the economy, in large companies - but above all, as you have said, madam commissioner, we are facing enormous challenges today in terms of the setbacks and threats to the rights we have won. so today, when we see that in european union countries such as poland women's right to sexual and reproductive health is threatened and trampled on, we must remember, as was said in beijing 25 years ago, that women's rights are human rights and human rights are women's rights. and in the european union we cannot allow any country to trample on the human rights of its citizens. that's why i want to ask you to focus on the biggest threats. violence against women is a great threat and it is increasing. i ask you, commissioner, to urgently put in place a special protocol for the assistance and care of women victims of violence in emergency situations, such as the pandemic. we must not allow them, in a third wave, a fourth wave, to live alone and with their aggressor without the necessary services this violence.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, we are commemorating the 25th anniversary of the beijing declaration and platform for action. it was a historic moment, a moment of ambition to really build a multilateral framework of dialogue to advance women's rights. and if there's anything we need to learn from this anniversary, it's that we need to put the same ambition we had then back on a global agenda to fight emerging inequalities. because we know that the pandemic is reproducing some patterns that we thought we'd forgotten, either by escalating violence or forcing women to return to more reproductive tasks because of the pandemic. and that forces us to be more ambitious in our policy. in domestic policy, commissioner, we already know that we have an ambitious gender equality agenda and strategy to develop, but we cannot allow, as other members have said, that some member states still trample women's rights within the european union. we must be forceful about this and also be a powerful voice abroad, with that gender equality action plan that we have in the european union, because the european union has to intervene in any scenario where women's rights are being trampled on.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! the 25th anniversary of the beijing declaration is an opportunity to take stock of progress towards gender equality and the protection of women's rights. so let us examine what it was really dedicated to. it was to draw attention to the problems of poverty, education, the situation of women in armed conflict, the issue of violence against women. twenty-five years later, let us look at how it works and how it has affected the situation of women in the european union. well, more than half a million women in the union have been subjected to female genital mutilation. we also still have a big pay gap when it comes to women's pay. fortunately, in poland, which is mentioned so often here, this gap is one of the smallest. yes, the wage gap in poland is one of the smallest in the european union. it's about women's rights. in the european union, however, young girls are still forced into marriages with adult men, which is a de facto pedophilia practice. so we have a lot to do in our common home, in europe.
mr president, gender equality is a basic prerequisite for world peace and development. the beijing declaration sets strategic goals for achieving equality in twelve key areas - milestones for women's issues. twenty-six years after the adoption of the beijing platform for action, no country has achieved equality for women and girls. important areas for improvement are women's access to work, reducing the gender pay gap, eliminating violence against women, and effectively safeguarding women's rights. the european union continues to lead the way in ensuring equal opportunities for women, equal access to all areas of social, political and economic life, and adequate representation in decision-making bodies. unfortunately, the economic crisis of the past decade and the current health adventure have exposed women to alarmingly high rates of violence, poverty and deprivation. the phenomena are sounding the alarm to governments and citizens not to undo the gains made in the last decades in the protection of women's rights. ladies and gentlemen, with an eye to the future generations, we have an obligation to make a decisive contribution by collective organized action to reducing inequalities and justifying the struggles of millions of women for the recognition of their rights in practice.
mr president, commissioner, what has been achieved in all these years of fighting for equality? well, the natural characteristics of women have been completely devalued. today fertility, motherhood, marital love, and family are viewed as negative. they sell us the freedom to be able to decide about our own bodies. we are promised a false autonomy that isolates us, a selfishness that turns against us. because we're not just one body. we are not a commodity, and neither is the baby we're keeping. the human being has a spiritual and transcendent dimension that you are not appreciating and that, in fact, is everything. this transcendence gives meaning to our lives and allows us to create bonds, relationships based on selfless love that open us to the generosity and solidarity of welcoming a new life: the wonderful gift of being parents of a unique, unrepeatable and unique human being from the very moment of conception. there's nothing more cruel than taking his life. each and every one of us is the fruit of the generosity of parents who have wanted to welcome us. how can we not give what we've received? we all long to have a family.
mr president, commissioner, this year marks the 25th anniversary of the beijing declaration and platform for action, to which the three previous un conferences also contributed, in particular the first world conference on women under the theme of equality, development and peace in 1975. we find that despite the gains made, there are still serious problems in the lives of women. they continue to be the main victims of precarious work, unemployment, rising inequalities, and violence in society, at work and in the family. we underline that sexual and reproductive health and rights are an integral part of the women's rights agenda and that it is essential to increase efforts to improve women's reproductive health and rights at european and global level. we reaffirm that the centrality of the impacts that the covid-19 pandemic is having on the downward spiral in women's lives should be a concern to be taken into account in the short-term challenges.
mr president, when i studied law at the university of coimbra in the 1970s, there was not a single woman on the faculty, today there are 32, but there is still only one woman at the top. when this parliament was first directly elected in 1979, the percentage of women was 15%, 15.2%, today it is 40.4% and now i have a commissioner on my right and a minister on my left. much progress has been made since 189 countries unanimously committed themselves to fighting for gender equality in beijing 25 years ago, but to date none of them has fully met their commitments, and there are many inequalities that need to be tackled. in europe, for example, 7 million women remain excluded from the labour market compared to 450 000 men because of unpaid care work, a situation aggravated by the crisis. as mrs clinton has already said, it is not enough to put rights on paper. women need to be empowered to fight for them in the public and private sectors. for example, here in the union, there is a directive to have more women on the boards of directors in non-executive positions, which is not a big deal. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, commissioner gentiloni, ladies and gentlemen, in the negotiations for the current budgetary period we have agreed to the entry of new own resources into the financing of the european union. and the commission will have to submit the necessary legislative proposals within a mandatory timetable. new own resources, in an amount sufficient to cover at least the capital and interest of next generation eu. the surplus shall be entered in the union budget as global revenue. one of these new own resources is precisely the carbon emission adjustment mechanism at the border, as commissioner gentiloni has already mentioned. we must therefore ensure that this mechanism is part of the own resources package. and that respects the principle of universality. but there's a timetable to meet. the respect of the commitments undertaken requires the commission to submit its proposal in time for the facility to contribute to the budget of the european union no later than 1 january 2023. that is what we are hoping for, commissioner gentiloni.
mr president, commissioner gentiloni, dear colleagues, we should be proud that europe is taking the paris agreement very seriously. there is no doubt that inaction is not a possibility. climate action is the only way forward. we are on the verge of a crucial shift towards a sustainable industrial policy towards clean energy and transitioning away from fossil fuels, towards smart and sustainable buildings, infrastructure, transportation and even food. still, the climate crisis is not a challenge just for europe, but for the whole world. europe is doing its part and its ambition cannot be met if we face the consequences of environmental dumping at the same time. the eu carbon border adjustment mechanism is the tool to ensure that there is not a race to the bottom worldwide. i would not expect these kind of divisions from the side of the epp on such a consensual matter that has been worked on by every committee and other committees for so long. a successful decarbonisation strategy – this is the consensus that we have built. it must fulfil our duty to deliver on the climate transition and to ensure that no one is left behind. the competitiveness of our industry is at stake, as are our workers’ jobs. dear colleagues from epp, these must not be at odds with climate ambition. this is not a matter of protectionism. in fact, we take good notice that the biden administration is considering a similar path. this is how we can tackle the climate crisis and encourage others to follow the same goal. this is indeed an important step into building a global coalition for climate action.
madam president, europe needs to continue to lead the climate agenda as it has done. but we must at the same time be able to ensure a level playing field for our companies against competitors from outside our economic bloc. and i ask you: can we accept that our businesses are being hurt by our climate ambition? because we want more? while others live with impunity in a climate dumping situation? our rules and our messages must be clear: protect the planet and promote a fair market for all. and for that, our companies cannot be put at a disadvantage for meeting our high environmental standards. the free market we believe in, the private enterprise we value and the environment we respect do not tolerate unfair competition. we must therefore also avoid the trick of moving companies to another country just to escape our ambitions and take advantage of the fact that they do not have to comply with stringent environmental standards. respect for the planet, promotion of industry and protection of jobs are objectives which are not contradictory! for our part, europe will comply with all of them!
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, administrative cooperation in the field of taxation is a dimension of european integration which can and should be more ambitious. each member state determines what taxes it collects, how much it collects and how it collects them. this fiscal sovereignty makes sense, but it is only fully achieved if we have the necessary instruments for fair, balanced and effective taxation. in a world increasingly globalised by digitalisation, and in a europe with an increasingly open single market, we need taxation adapted to today. challenges that are not of one country or another, but common, especially when we share a space like the european union. the commission's legislative package for fairer and simpler taxation, which this directive is the result of, is an important step, but it needs to be consistent. it is for the council of the union, which is chaired this semester by portugal, to decide and apparently it is preparing to ignore the contribution of this parliament. if the position was expected, it is still reprehensible. there is still time to reconsider, and that is the first appeal i leave here. i leave the commission, which i asked about this last week, with a second appeal: to work on a more thorough review of the directive. we decided this week on dac 7 and an 8th dac has already been announced. it's time to do some more detailed, steady work. successive legislative changes disrupt the work of tax administrations and create uncertainty for businesses. we have a lot to do: improve the system for exchanging information between tax authorities, increase resources for tax administrations, protect taxpayers' rights, avoid red tape for businesses and ensure data protection for all. the proposals we have adopted this week are in that direction, but we do not decide alone on everything. we hope to have that opportunity in the near future.
madam president, the internal market of the european union was built on the free movement of capital, but without the mechanisms necessary for this free movement of capital to be used to avoid taxation of large multinational companies in the digital sector and not only in the digital sector, generating a race to the bottom that is bad for citizens, but not bad for everyone, as is the fashion to say in these debates. it is good for these multinational companies and it is good for all territories, including member states which base their economic and public accounting models on the predation of tax revenues from others. citizens are fed up with this reality, which weakens public services and increases taxation of labour income. tax administrative cooperation and tax transparency must be a step towards creating minimum capital gains taxation rules within the european union, making transparent the race to the bottom we have seen in the european union and the world.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, disabled people are doubly affected by unemployment and there is an urgent need to correct this imbalance with common sense and pragmatism. we regret, however, that the rapporteur of this text has found it useful to pollute this essential debate with a smoking intersectional ideology, because it uses criteria and particularisms that tend towards communitarianism to fracture and dissolve the unity of the nation. it is to avoid this drift and to keep away from the whims of the extreme left that our group, identity and democracy, has tabled an alternative motion for a resolution. we must not lose sight of the real struggle of disabled workers: the accessibility of workplaces, the adaptation of their jobs and the provision of vocational training. these are the first obstacles to recruitment and professional development in the heart of companies. this is the challenge we must tackle.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i would like to congratulate my colleague katrin langensiepen on this excellent report. as regards equal treatment in employment and work, the situation is quite clear: 20 years after the adoption of the directive, the world of work remains highly segregated, or even closed to most disabled people. it all starts with education. without an inclusive education system, without equal access to training and education, it is difficult to design an inclusive and equal labour market. unfortunately, sheltered workshops are often part of the continuum of special education. a parallel world, with no real prospects, with an increased risk of poverty and financial dependence. a genuine integration into the workplace, which recognises and values the skills of the employee, is above all a matter of dignity. how can we do that? what about quotas? yes, but the emphasis must also be on supporting businesses and here the public sector should be exemplary. the change must be mainly at the level of mentality and attitude, because diversity is an asset, it is also an opportunity in the professional world.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, all efforts to achieve the full presence of people with disabilities in our society are worthwhile. this report should be a tool to promote their professional life, but it has been left in an ideological statement that puts more emphasis on alleged discrimination than on making new ideas viable. it is a short-sighted approach, since it resentfully wants to destroy what has been achieved so far in order to impose a uniform alternative that ignores the uniqueness of each person. it is essential to ensure that a variety of employment options are available which can be adapted to the situation of each person with a disability, not only so that they can be integrated into our society, but also so that we can benefit from their wonderful presence. disability needs to be understood in its true diversity, which has nothing to do with gender. we must abandon the victim-oriented discourse which exploits and manipulates this social reality for interests which are totally alien to its real needs. we all, as individuals, have the same value and dignity, which does not depend solely on our abilities or social usefulness, as this document states. it is in relationships, in close and selfless affections, that we find personal fulfillment. this text does not take that into account. why did you leave it out? why don't you talk about family? is it not the intention to replace them with an overprotective state? the real need of this world is love, which seeks union and not confrontation.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, commissioner, the reality for the overwhelming majority of people with disabilities continues to be marked by the limitation and denial of rights which, although already provided for in different legal instruments, take time to be realised in their lives. the disabled are one of the social groups most affected by unemployment and precariousness, and are among the groups most affected by poverty and social exclusion. it is urgent to ensure access for people with disabilities to employment with rights. this labour inclusion inevitably requires a general framework for the regulation of work, the enhancement of wages and the promotion of collective employment, ensuring that the recruitment of these workers is based on the labour benchmark applied to other workers in terms of remuneration or working time and adapted to their needs. equal treatment in employment and occupation will also require ensuring that recruitment support schemes do not dilute the wage burden on the disabled worker, in particular through public participation. these are just and longstanding demands of disabled people and their organisations. i would like to end my speech by paying tribute to the struggle of disabled people and the organizations that defend their rights, and by paying a special tribute on 8 march, international women's day, to women with disabilities and to all the women who contribute daily and tirelessly to improving the quality of life of all disabled people.
madam president, i would first like to remind the team that the european parliament's negotiating team on the multiannual financial framework has succeeded in increasing the financial envelope for investeu by eur 1 billion. and congratulations, irene, josé manuel and paulo, on reaching a regulation which aims to make good use of this money. the recovery of economies requires investment. sustainable investment promoting climate and digital transition, cohesion and job creation. the european response to the crisis, and the various programmes and mechanisms that comprise it, are the main instruments for promoting this investment. investeu is one of them. it facilitates investment that contributes to the political objectives of the european union. one of its main advantages, already tested in the past, is to leverage private investment. we ensure that virtually all investeu windows can support sme capitalisation measures. fundamental to boosting its competitiveness on a global scale. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the poorest regions in the community, such as services or industry, but also tourism, catering, culture and the creative sectors, which have been particularly hard hit by the crisis. i would also like to highlight three dimensions of investeu. first, the promotion of scientific and technological progress. building the european union's resilience to future challenges requires scientific production and the creation of technologies for policy delivery. let us not forget the 3% of gdp target for 2020 on research and innovation. the investeu fund should help to accelerate this objective by drawing on public and private investment. for the first time, investeu can support social investment and skills. yesterday was finally international women's day. i would also remind you that investeu should contribute to the implementation of the european union's gender equality policies by tackling the digital divide, promoting women's entrepreneurial potential, supporting the development of care and infrastructure for victims of violence.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every euro invested in public health interventions is multiplied by 14 in the long term. that's what science tells us. we now have €5.1 billion in the most ambitious programme ever, which will be approved in this parliament today. a program that has at its core two components, that will allow us to not repeat the mistakes of the past and that will approach health in a holistic way, as it needs and deserves, making health systems better prepared for current and future health threats. a health-based programme in all policies and in one health, because health goes far beyond the provision of health care and disease. the main objective has to be health promotion and disease prevention, reducing health inequalities, promoting healthier lifestyles and reducing the burden of disease in the union, and protecting populations against cross-border threats through better preparedness and response of health systems, so that they become more efficient and resilient. this programme is thus becoming a reality thanks to the contributions of civil society, but above all to the lessons learned from the covid-19 pandemic. it is the most ambitious and comprehensive health programme for the european union. but health goes far beyond this program. we will only achieve better health indicators if we have a real health approach in all policies, acting on those that are the determinants of health and reducing inequalities in health. we'll only be as healthy as our most vulnerable. a final word of thanks to those who made all this possible: to christian and all my fellow rapporteurs, to our teams, to the technical teams of the european parliament, who were resounding and tireless, to the commission and the council, for having been able to respond in record time to the challenge. for a true european health union that leaves no one behind.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the treaty on the functioning of the european union reminds us that a high level of health protection will be ensured in the definition and implementation of all union policies and actions. it is also recalled that the union has competence to develop actions to support, coordinate or supplement the action of the member states in various fields, the first of which, according to the treaty itself, is the protection and improvement of human health. we've been too long awake to do much. eu4health is in many ways the european response to the much that still needs to be done in health: a european response in the fight against cancer, in particular paediatric cancer, a european response in the fight against pandemics, a european response to the need to bring back the production of medicines to europe, a european response to pharmaceutical innovation, a european response that draws lessons from the covid-19 crisis and strengthens national health systems. we at the epp wanted to go further. we've made progress on the importance of training healthcare workers, reducing inequalities and digitizing the healthcare industry. an ambitious plan and one that europeans can be proud of.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, commissioner, virginijus sinkevičius, i would first like to thank clara aguilera and her team for the excellent work they have done on a regulation which is of great importance to the whole fisheries sector. the issue of tolerance margins has been at the heart of many of the debates. it is a complex issue, but one that stems from an imperfection. it is pointless to base discussions on quotas on estimated catches. we must move towards a system where landed fish are weighed in an independent system, like a lot, as is the case in portugal. the amendment tabled by the s&d group in this respect provides for some flexibility, ensuring that there will be no disproportionate penalties for small-scale fishing vessels just because they have sometimes caught one fish too many, fish that already exceeds the margin of tolerance. at the same time, i would like to express my full support for measures that contribute to a uniform implementation of the regulation, covering the whole fleet and ensuring the collection of information on activity, including interaction with sensitive species. this is the right way. i would like to conclude, madam president, by combining the defence of fisheries and the protection of marine life in a harmonious way.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, after the outbreak of the pandemic crisis, the european institutions met citizens’ expectations. of the decisions taken to tackle the economic and social consequences of the crisis, next generation eu has to be highlighted, not only for its size, but also for the issuance of common debt, which broke a taboo and is a clear step forward in european integration, a decisive step in the right direction. overall, the eu response to the crisis represents around 9% of gdp, which is very close to the us federal response, but for the first wave of the pandemic alone. we are now experiencing the third wave of the pandemic, and while the americans have tripled their stimulus package to 30% of gdp, including direct transfers to households, in europe, not only did we not increase the response, but we are still struggling to get next generation eu off the ground. the new oecd projections for the global economy, which have just been published, highlight the consequences of these different choices of response between the us and europe. the us will grow much more than europe in 2021 because of this different response. if we want to save millions of jobs in europe, we need a real spur on demand to push for the economy. fiscal policy must be more ambitious, for sure. prolonging the general escape clause is a good first step, but is far from enough. the eu needs to step up and speed up to keep pace with the dimension of this crisis.
the s&d group, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, has called for a ceasefire to be reached in syria. this is a silent warning and perhaps all we have left is to appeal to the pragmatism of the possible. when more than 11 million people depend on humanitarian aid, it is imperative that it be freed from political exploitation and that it reach the entire territory, including places of confinement and detention, and that the united nations security council keep the bab al-hawa crossing open and authorize the reopening of all the humanitarian access points currently closed. we cannot continue to talk about the humanitarian misery of al-hol and other camps, a breeding ground for radicalisation, without taking on the responsibilities that fall to us. it is imperative that member states speed up the repatriation of their citizens, respond to the need to protect children, and it would be unforgivable to allow the loss of another generation. we must continue to support refugees and not allow them to return until conditions of safety and dignity are met. yes, there is no other solution to this conflict than the negotiation of a new constitution within the geneva process. we support the efforts of the united nations and its special envoy, but we must remember that peace requires the constructive participation of all and accountability for the crimes committed in this war, a fundamental step towards reconciliation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, the european semester has been seen as a bureaucratic exercise, lacking in transparency and ignoring the new realities and challenges of the union. the latest crisis response instruments and the resulting agreements with parliament are a first step towards, firstly, reinvigorating the european semester and, secondly, reforming it into a genuine instrument of economic governance. the recovery and resilience mechanism has shown the importance of coordinating economic and social policies. the european parliament, with responsibilities in defining the union's general principles and objectives, leaves the member states the political choices to achieve those objectives, with an open and inclusive dialogue between european and national institutions. finally, parliament gives the semester more transparency and democratic legitimacy. it allows for monitoring of the fulfilment of the union's political priorities and objectives, but also for monitoring the use of the mechanism's funds guaranteed by the union budget.
madam president, up until two years ago, the european commission was recommending to member states like mine that they cut back on their public health systems, systems which are now saving the lives of their citizens. congratulations to the governments who ignored this and other recommendations. today the right does not want social and environmental indicators to be included in the european semester. he says they're gonna hurt growth and job creation. i regret to report that the european model of economic governance has already failed to achieve these objectives. it has failed the eurozone's miserable performance since its inception. it failed in the adjustment programmes that led to recessions, increased unemployment and increased public debt. social and environmental objectives are objectives of economic policy. if they're not, they're just talk. the investment and employment needed to meet these challenges is the best way to economic recovery and if we want to take stock of the european semester, let us take stock of how it has systematically failed the european union.... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, allow me to be completely clear. the european semester is old. really old. in spite of the objectives of the stability and growth pact, our experience from a decade ago shows that its rules are not fit for purpose. the extension of the general escape clause for one more year is, of course, good news, but it’s only a first step. the escape clause must not be withdrawn before the economy returns to its pre—crisis level. but before the stability and growth pact is in place again, it must be deeply revised. the economic landscape has changed and europe’s priorities have evolved. the european semester must do the same. the pandemic has resulted in a dramatic increase in public debt for every country. however, as interest rates are estimated to continue to be low for several years, its impact will be watered down. as such, the pace of reduction of public debt can, and must, be reduced, not forcing member states into a decade of austerity and economic depression. furthermore, we must also implement the so long—discussed golden rule for sustainable investment, and we need a more inclusive semester and macroeconomic rules, not just about numbers, but also about the people and the environment. we know what has to be done. let’s just do it together.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i am strongly opposed to the minimum wage directive. that's because i'm from sweden. we all remember how this happened. in november 2017, stefan löfven was at the summit in gothenburg. in fact, before that, in march, the eu committee in the riksdag had already said that we should not transfer any decision-making powers to brussels. it is our firm opinion that no questions of detail should be included. he also said in the göteborgsposten in connection with the summit: the debate on the transfer of power to brussels and the eu is a foggy one. and now we have a situation where the social democrats in sweden vote in favour of the minimum wage directive, and also send a letter to commission president von der leyen in which you demand the introduction of a minimum wage, and which is signed by the leader of the swedish members' group here in parliament. you're failing the lo, who are deeply critical of this bill. the lo is the foundation of your party. you are failing the swedish labour movement and frankly you should remove the word labour party from your party name.
madam president, ten years after the creation of strategy 2020, the european commission has presented the action plan for the european pillar of social rights. a plan of action with nice words, but not ambitious. for example, the poverty reduction target to be achieved will still leave at least 78 million people in poverty. we're not fooling ourselves. they may try to disguise as social policies that undermine social and labour rights, but social progress is not compatible with the neoliberal policies promoted by the european institutions. it's not enough to just hang out. what is essential is a pact for social progress and employment aimed at full employment, wage appreciation, the defence of collective bargaining, the eradication of precariousness, the regulation of working hours, the defence and strengthening of public services, particularly in access to health, education, housing, social security and public networks for the care of children, the elderly and the disabled. that's how you make sure no one gets left behind.
madam president, madam secretary of state, commissioner, i would first of all like to welcome the presentation of the action plan for the implementation of the european pillar of social rights, for which the s&d group fought hard. the plan has a profound political significance in consolidating the court with the austerity directive of bad memory and in making tangible the commitment to fight inequalities, poverty and social exclusion. this is a step towards the social europe that the vast majority of europeans yearn for. i would like to see more ambition in, for example, poverty reduction targets or affordable housing and i would like some of the recommendations, for example on the child guarantee, to be legislative instruments. but improving and implementing this plan, whether in legislative initiatives or in policy guidelines, will lead to a fairer, more cohesive and more inclusive european union. there is no doubt that the fairer, more cohesive and more inclusive the union is, the greater the support and the support of european citizens. the portuguese presidency aims to mobilise the member states and all the institutions around this action plan and make it a point of no return. i trust you'll do it. european socialists made their mark in gothenburg in 2017 and will make their mark in porto in may 2021. we are going to make social europe happen.
madam president, never in the history of mankind has so much wealth and scientific knowledge been produced. however, one in five europeans still lives in poverty and this number is increasing day by day as the pandemic impacts on member states' economies. it is therefore urgent to rethink our social, economic and financial issues so as to ensure that all europeans have a safety net free from bureaucracy and prejudice. it is time to introduce an unconditional basic income, that is to say, to provide every european, regardless of his or her financial, family or professional situation, with an income sufficient to enable him or her to live in dignity. the time is now, as the challenges of automation, technological unemployment, poverty, gender inequality, mitigating the impacts of climate change, rural depopulation and tackling the structural inefficiencies of current social supports demonstrate that there is no time to waste.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam secretary of state, mr commissioner, more than seven out of ten europeans want more europe in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. 9 out of 10 in portugal, which holds the presidency of the council this semester. and the cost of non-europe in this area amounts to hundreds of millions of euros in damage to our budgets every year. but let 's be clear: it was the existing european legislation on tax transparency that allowed journalists to reveal openlux. the problem is not therefore the legislation but its implementation. we need a detailed picture of tax fraud and tax evasion in europe, with a map that identifies the shortcomings in the implementation and transposition of european legislation, without delay, commissioner. in the long run, madam secretary of state, we need to be more agile and ambitious in our decision-making. we need to improve the directives and, in some cases, pass regulations. to safeguard unfair tax competition but to protect the integrity of the internal market. it is essential for the future to discuss the best value of the union in tax matters when we have limited instruments. we cannot want more europe when we have no means to act. and let us not forget that every penny illegally taken from national budgets is an attack on the rights of compliant taxpayers. let us therefore have courage in our decision, commitment in its implementation and firmness in its supervision.
in writing. let me start with the principle: let us continue to have hope in the virtues and importance of journalism, especially investigative journalism. without this inquiry, we might not be discussing tax evasion again today. the existence of countries or areas of the eu which are genuine tax havens harms everyone: all citizens, because of the enormous loss of public revenue in the member states, and all other countries, because, in the case of a kind of unfair competition between states, it poses a problem of relative justice and a serious question of the reputation of an eu which wants to set an example. before we talk about new legislation, we have to have the capacity to apply existing rules, regulations and laws to combat tax evasion. this is the case with legislation that has apparently been withheld for years by some member states and with public country reports that we still do not know about. let us therefore make the legislative changes that will make the relentless fight against tax evasion effective.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, it is very important that the implementation of recovery plans be designed and implemented in conjunction with local authorities and the social partners. this is stated in the regulation we have adopted here and is a principle of good governance. it seems to me important, however, to clarify that this good governance results from the functioning of the social partners and the national democratic powers. it should not, in our view, be confused with the meaning that this expression has had in the past, namely the interference of the technical teams that the european commission wants to send to the various countries in the political choices that only the democratically elected national authorities can make. it is therefore important to clarify what the mandate of the technical teams associated with this recovery fund is and whether there will again be, as in the past, pressure on democratically elected governments to implement these policies rather than others. we have had a lot of experience in portugal with what the european commission calls good governance. we were also praised for our discipline in implementing this good governance and the result was the biggest recession in our democratic history, with unemployment and poverty soaring and the public debt ratio rising. if that's the case, the technical teams should stay in brussels where they can do less damage.
madam president, if the european response to the crisis is to reach citizens, businesses and states, then the partnerships between the european and national institutions must work well. right now, in the approval of the national recovery and resilience plans. the key word is urgency. the european parliament, in an interinstitutional framework, has set the objectives for the union, for green, digital, inclusive growth, for the empowerment of young people, but also for the implementation of reforms that can make public systems, in particular education, health and justice, better equipped to deal with global challenges. it is up to the member states, in open dialogue with the local authorities, the social partners and civil society, as my government has done, to decide on their policies and projects to make the best use of available european funding, on a basis of complementarity between next generation eu and the mff, for the benefit of their economies, the european economy and europeans.
madam president, national recovery and resilience plans are a pillar of the european economic recovery. the economic recession of 2020 and this first quarter of 2021, marked by lockdowns, call for urgent responses. the plans must be presented, discussed and approved quickly so that the funds can reach the real economy as soon as possible. to the companies that generate wealth, create value and multiply employment and to the families that find themselves unprotected and without income. for this reason, and in order to truly implement the principle of partnership with states and civil society, we need transparency. transparency in the decision-making process, but also throughout the implementation, because only with full access to information can we ensure that companies have access to opportunities and that citizens can assess the results. and the result we want is economic growth and job creation. if, on the one hand, we cannot waste resources or indulge in fraud or corruption, on the other hand, we cannot accept the concentration in the state of funds which belong to the europeans, to the people. it is essential that the money is invested in the economy and not used to finance the expenditure of public administrations or to feed the propaganda instruments of governments.
in writing. the european union has joined forces to ensure a timely response - a robust financial recovery tool for member states - to an unprecedented crisis. due to covid-19, businesses, workers, families, education, tourism and many other sectors have been affected and are in urgent need of support. national recovery and resilience plans should focus on social policies such as employment, education, skills and health, as well as structural and investment reforms that promote a green, socially inclusive transition to ensure added value. they should also improve the long-term competitiveness and sustainable growth prospects of member states, address the challenges and reap the benefits of the green and digital transitions and the sustainable development goals (sdgs). the level of ambition must be high, but never self-centred and uncoordinated from those that are the objectives of this plan: recovery and resilience are the key words. we will only achieve better indicators of social progress and we will only be stronger if we tackle this crisis with strategic investments based on social policy, cohesion and the specific needs of each country and region.
the european union is also committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective policy on the prevention of and control of the spread of the virus. unfortunately, these repressive measures are not new. over the past four years we have seen an escalation in repressive actions by the cambodian authorities, not only against political opponents but also against trade unions, human rights defenders, civil society organisations and media outlets. the country is moving in broad strokes towards a one-party regime, with laws and actions that limit or make it impossible to have political opposition and restrict individual freedoms in repeated violation of its international human rights obligations. this situation cannot be tolerated. the cambodian authorities must put an end to all forms of repression and politically motivated trials and release all political prisoners. but the european union must also send clear signals to the cambodian authorities that change is needed and that it must use all its resources to strengthen civil society.
mr president, i would like to thank you for this debate here today and express my satisfaction with the commission's communication on rural areas: we need a real programme for rural areas in europe, with a comprehensive approach. we must not look at agriculture in a one-sided way, or at tourism, or even at the environment: we must look at the whole of europe and look across the board to meet the needs of rural areas and the people of europe. if we don't, we're going to be wrong. this cannot be done without local actors, without the town halls and without the people who live in these rural areas. and let us not forget rural women: they must be involved and we must give them visibility, also in the debate on communication. we have a magnificent perch and an instrument such as the conference on the future of europe: let us use it, commissioner, to develop this debate.
mr president, commissioner, i thank my colleague, mr norbert lins, for the pertinent questions, but i am sure that we differ on the position on what role and what investments should be made in the rural world to fix people, to strengthen cohesion, to boost its economy and to regenerate biodiversity. and the common agricultural policy, as it is designed, continues to subsidize highly polluting and over-intensive industries, notably the livestock industry. as well as reinforcing the concentration of investments in large landlords. the cap should be redesigned to adapt to the social, economic and climate challenges of the 21st century, with a focus on more extensive, organic, local and plant-based production. and finally, speaking of the rural world, i cannot forget the bulls that are brutally slaughtered in the arenas of southern europe with the support of the common agricultural policy funds. it is time to put an end to the cruel industry of bullfighting and it is time to put an end to the common agricultural policy funds for this cruel industry.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union urgently needs a real rural agenda, an ambitious plan with very concrete objectives and the implementation of which can be monitored. i would say a real solidarity pact for rural areas. its timeliness and urgency are widely recognised, especially now, in the context of the formulation and implementation of the green deal, which will require so much of these rural regions and their people and economies. if we do not act quickly and with strong involvement of the municipalities and regions, we risk having large parts of europe irreversibly abandoned, demographically depressed and economically deficient, especially in local services and in the capacity to create jobs. mr president, let us not miss this opportunity to set an aggregate agenda for the many policies and, i stress, the new reform of the common agricultural policy, the great digital transformation, which cannot ignore these regional disparities between rural and urban areas, a strategy with a decisive direct impact on the vitality of these areas and which will allow us to align our macroeconomic objectives with their specificities. i sincerely hope that this vision will develop with realism and solidarity, especially because in our territorial future, in this union of peoples and states, there can be no europeans of the first rank and europeans of the second.
in writing. regarding the eu initiative 'long-term vision for rural areas', it should be stressed that the rural fabric of many member states, such as portugal, has suffered continuously from eu policies, especially the common agricultural policy, and the result is a depopulated hinterland, with no infrastructure, with weakened public services and far from people and with weakened economic activities. we have seen for decades the abandonment of the countryside and the rural world, the victim of the constant and deliberate divestment and alienation of successive governments, with complete disregard for the resident populations and disregard for territorial cohesion. if this long-term vision means that once again agribusiness is favoured over small farmers and their organic farming practices, or that public services are disinvested, closed or privatised, then we are dealing with another act of propaganda. and the rural areas don't need that! defending rural areas requires jobs, public services, public investment. it calls for a different agroforestry policy, a cap compatible with family farming and the rural world of the mini-fund and it calls for fair production prices! it requires effective regional development which takes account of existing inequalities and which cannot be exacerbated.
in writing. the digital green certificate is an important instrument for the recovery of the economy and tourism, with the aim of facilitating the free movement of citizens, while ensuring all safety conditions. there is no doubt about the urgency of common approaches to enable the long-awaited recovery, but beware that haste is the enemy of perfection. there are fundamental premises which must be respected with this instrument. firstly, the instrument must facilitate mobility. secondly, this instrument cannot replace any of the other measures in place to combat, prevent and contain the pandemic, but rather complement them. thirdly, the instrument cannot be discriminatory and create first-class and second-class citizens, because vaccination is not yet optional and should not be a precondition for the exercise of free movement. finally, it cannot create more stress for those working in the pandemic and who have been on the frontline from the beginning, namely healthcare professionals and border workers. at the next european council i call for a common and coordinated approach, because the lessons of the past tell us that this is the way forward.
madam president, commissioner hahn, to talk about new own resources is to talk about the future ambition of the european union. only with new own resources to finance the budget of the european union, as we agreed in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, will we abandon the meaningless, selfish debate every seven years about whether member states contribute 1% or 1.1% of their gross national income and perhaps we can replace this debate with a debate on the political and geostrategic ambition of the european union. new own resources that are in line with policies such as climate, digital, a fairer tax policy, combat fraud, tax evasion and avoidance, which no longer burden citizens, but those who today do not pay taxes like the rest of the companies, that is, the big digital multinationals and the speculators in financial transactions. the portuguese presidency of the european union has put forward a proposal to the council to advance the financial transaction tax. we hereby express our ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the progress of the european project is accompanied by new financing needs, which must not fall on the finances of the member states in such a way as to burden them beyond what is reasonable. the scale of the covid-19 pandemic recovery financial package, the next generation eu, has precipitated the historic option for joint debt issuance. but if the payment of this debt is not to weigh heavily on future generations, new sources of revenue and new resources must be created. the proposals on the table for three new rates are bold but essential. i find it very serious that several member states have not yet ratified the text creating these new and much needed resources. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the application of this regulation and the rules on the application of the delegated and implementing acts referred to in article 5 of regulation (eu) no 1290/2013, including the rules on the application of the delegated and implementing acts referred to in article 5 of regulation (eu) no 1290/2013, and the rules on the application of the delegated and implementing acts referred to in article 5 of regulation (eu) no 1290/2013.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, economic and monetary union is one of the main achievements of european integration, but it is still an incomplete reality. on the banking union side, we still have to establish the european deposit insurance system, and on the capital market union side, we still have more to do, in areas ranging from taxation to supervision to insolvency. if the first case lacks realism, the second lacks pragmatism. capital markets can and should play an important role in europe's economic recovery. the investment deficit we face will not be solved by european funds or expansionary fiscal policies alone. we need private investment to create value, create jobs, innovate in the market, increase the competitiveness of our companies and increase household incomes. the measures we are taking in response to the pandemic crisis are circumstantial, but we will have to make structural decisions. we need to increase access to capital markets for smes, protect individual investors, improve financial literacy for citizens, fight fraud with better supervision and protect competition with smarter taxation. europe needs more investment and we are in a position to boost that growth. let's have the courage to do it.
in writing. strengthening the eu-africa partnership is essential, especially in the context of the global covid-19 pandemic. it has widened inequality and introduced huge setbacks to the commitments made in the attempt to create a new partnership anchored in mutual responsibility for problem solving as well as sustainable and inclusive development of the two continents. europe has prioritised multilateral and partnership relations with africa and successive portuguese presidencies of the council of the eu have contributed greatly to this objective. this partnership has all the conditions to pursue these objectives at political, economic, social and environmental level. in implementing the eu-africa strategy, we now have a solution-oriented approach that puts people at the centre, notably in the provision of universal quality health care and education, the creation of decent jobs, the fight against poverty, the fight against inequality, addressing infrastructure deficits and other issues such as the gaps in international organisations that push away the opportunities needed.
madam president! data is the foundation of digital transformation and innovation. they are the basis for the creation of new products and services and the development of artificial intelligence. their availability and open and secure international exchange can be a key added value and a breakthrough in building an autonomous european digital economy and contribute to improving health, living conditions and the environment. however, it should be borne in mind that ensuring better access to and exchange of data should be done while guaranteeing high standards of personal data protection and cybersecurity. i would like to pay particular attention to the cybersecurity aspect, because this is a serious challenge that we will have to face.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the common organization of the market in bananas (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). the regulation has proved its worth. it ensures better protection of personal data and a wider awareness among the public and sets the standards worldwide. thousands of companies have so far done their best to fully comply with the gdpr. they've also made the necessary investments. i would like to make three comments today on our data policy. firstly, we must not be blind to the shortcomings and problems which have become apparent in recent years. we must recognise that the gdpr is time-consuming and expensive for smes and everyday associations. in addition, the application and enforcement of the rules are not uniform in all member states. that is a disruption of the proper functioning of the internal market. secondly, we must not impede the exchange of data with third countries. adequacy decisions with third countries are indeed crucial to enable companies to exchange data with each other in a smooth and gdpr-compliant manner. third and lastly, there are the new technologies, which are often based on artificial intelligence and require large amounts of data to work properly. the gdpr must not be an obstacle to the european union in the global race for innovative strategic technologies. i therefore join my group in calling on the commission to fully assess the impact of the gdpr on these new technologies in the coming months and years and to draw up a plan to enable them to continue to flourish and develop in the future.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank ladies and gentlemen, once again i would like to thank parliament for its support of this ambitious data programme. we have discussed together the european data strategy and, as you know, the commission is committed, both legislatively and through the programme and the industrial alliance, to ensure that europe can fully benefit from the wave of industrial data that will define our ability to integrate the digital transformation of our industrial ecosystems. the commission is counting on your parliament's support, not only in the various legislative matters already on the table but also in those which are to come. turning to the gdpr, i'd like to thank you again for our interesting discussion. i am pleased to see that we share many ideas on how to continue the work for an effective implementation and enforcement of the gdpr. on smes, the commission is ready to assist the development of consistent and practical national guidance and guidelines of the edpb in order to help businesses, in particular smes, to comply with data provision rules. the commission financially supports national data protection authorities in their efforts to reach out to smes and citizens. and we will continue this financial support in 2021, including on projects aimed at developing templates and all the practical tools to help smes to comply with the rules. the commission will also consider whether, in light of further experience and relevant case law, proposing possible targeted amendments to certain provisions of the gdpr might be appropriate in the future, in particular regarding records of processing by smes that do not have the processing of personal data as their core business. while it is clear that there is still work ahead to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of the gdpr, i am convinced that our efforts will contribute to achieving our ambition of creating a common culture of data protection in the eu, and even beyond. i look forward to continuing of course our exchange on the gdpr and on data protection issues more generally. so thank you very much also again for your support.
in writing. – the data strategy for europe is extremely important. we cannot compete with china and the united states if we are not able to create a common european data pool. if we continue with relatively small data sets, we will not be able to create new innovative products as quickly as our competitors. ensuring access to data is crucial for our businesses’ innovation and growth. we need to boost data sharing and the free flow of data within the european union, but this cannot come about as a protectionist measure. we need to extend the data flows also between the union and third countries, provided that privacy and security requirements are met. further, i would like to highlight the rise of edge computing. as said in the commission’s communication today 80% of the processing of data takes place in the cloud and 20% in smart connected objects. the share of edge computing will increase rapidly and it will be 80% by 2025. therefore, we need to make sure that there are technical and legal solutions in place for providing effective access to data on the edge. we also need to address the emerging cybersecurity and data interoperability challenges the distributed nature of edge computing brings along.
in writing. data is crucial for economic growth, sustainable development and innovation in europe. the covid-19 pandemic has further highlighted the role and need for high-quality data sharing. our task is therefore to provide european standards that keep pace with technological developments and help companies, especially smes, to thrive in the digital age. the creation of a single european data space therefore appears to be crucial. we should be focusing on consumer safety while giving businesses access to important data. interoperability of data and cooperation between member states should also be priorities. i hope that the new strategy will ensure effective, responsible and secure access to data that creates real added value for citizens and businesses across the european union. so we have a huge opportunity and potential in europe and it is time to seize it.
in writing. the advance of digitalisation is transforming the economy and people's daily lives at an ever-increasing and accelerating pace. one of the main impacts of this is the rapid growth of data traffic, which is doubling globally on average every year and a half. in order to control the process and avoid vulnerability to technology companies, appropriate policy objectives and legislative tools are needed, which should take into account three aspects. the new digital data-driven economy should aim to improve the quality of life of european citizens. the digital shift should benefit all workers, entrepreneurs and local communities. the establishment of common european data spaces could be an appropriate tool for this. it is also of paramount importance that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises receive appropriate legal and technical support in relation to digitalisation. smes account for around 100 million jobs and more than 50% of gdp in the european union. maintaining their competitiveness is an essential condition for the success of the digital transition. finally, data-driven technologies should also contribute to the achievement of climate objectives. the it sector has significant potential in this area. the digital transition, if implemented with the right speed and ambition, can greatly improve the chances of achieving climate neutrality by 2050.
the european data strategy does not address the fundamental question of the ownership of 'data', which should always be that of those who originated it in the first place (usually citizens in their interactions with the machine) and not of the actors who collected and classified it. this is the fundamental question for ai, in its transformation of workforce experience into fixed capital, and one that the eu insists on not addressing. in addition, the issue of cloud data federation (interconnection), the creation of so-called common european data spaces, interoperability and data sharing in the eu can contribute to the even greater concentration of data collection, storage and processing, for the benefit not only of peoples and states, but also of large multinationals in various sectors, not only in the digital domain. these aspects should be integrated into a vision of sovereign development, aiming at the preservation and safeguarding of data at the national level, and in a data management that includes both a public dimension and a national interest. the example of a common european health data area will obviously serve private entities operating in the sector, in particular in the insurance sector.
the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, understand that in addressing this house today, my words also go to the albanian people, to those who look to the european union with an infectious hope of progress, modernity and social justice. the courage, courage and determination with which the albanians have moved forward, without hesitation, in the reforms that have been asked of them, even in moments of disdain such as the case of the earthquake at the end of 2019 and the pandemic last year, are truly inspiring and allowed to achieve the conditions presented in march 2018 to move forward with the first formal negotiations. the european elections and the delay by the european commission in presenting the report last year have led to this parliament not taking a position on the situation in albania since 2018. fortunately, during this period, as has already been acknowledged by the association council and the european commission, much progress has been made in fields as diverse as justice, the rule of law, respect for fundamental rights, electoral law, public administration, economic policy, education and employment, connectivity and the fight against corruption and organised crime. the resumption of the functioning of the supreme court and the constitutional court with the appointment of judges is ongoing, as is the start of the functioning of the anti-corruption agencies. these are just a few examples of the efforts and the will shown by albania. i know that there are different views on the reforms implemented in the country. some will say that these reforms must be deepened and others must be pursued. of course, it is always possible and necessary to do more and better. the report also makes a number of recommendations in very different areas, such as the environment, regional cooperation, the media, the rule of law, among others, with the aim of contributing to the modernisation of the country and providing new horizons for the quality of life of the new generations and progress towards greater alignment with european policies. this is a path we will take together, but now, immediately, it is imperative that the effort made by the country be recognized without hesitation or delay, for the sake of the credibility of this whole process. the merit in the completion of the different stages must have clear consequences for progress towards accession. a process in which we all have a stake in business opportunities, investment, free movement, development, quality of life, global competitiveness and the affirmation of the values that unite us. i am convinced that the general elections in albania on 25 april, a date of great significance in my country, will make it possible to consolidate and renew democratic procedures and structures and to overcome the polarization which has been felt. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives from the member states. the european option of the albanians, 97% according to opinion polls, is clear. we can't let them down. this is a comprehensive, balanced report which seeks to address the issues most important to the european union and the albanian people, something which was only possible thanks to the constructive and dialogue-based attitude of the different political groups and the shadow rapporteurs, to whom i express my deep gratitude. now is the time to act in the realisation of the albanian people's expectations, legitimised by the path we have taken. it is time to act, putting the collective interests of europeans above the individual or momentary interests of some countries and some political factions. yes, albania, yes, albania, together we will go further. good luck with that, albania. good luck with that, albania. good luck to you, albania!
madam president, presidents of the council and the commission, europe must have a stronger foreign policy where we decide and act accordingly. if the european institutions want to play a significant role in defining the way the world will be, we need to stop seeing these attitudes between the actors inside the union. i pay tribute to the strength of your words today here, madam president of the commission, and hope that lessons are learned for the future. but the now distant march council was also about acting on the pandemic, about our response to the crisis. several leaders called on the eu to step up and speed up its response to the crisis. joe biden did more in four months to respond to the crisis than we managed to do in europe in one year. and i ask you, presidents von der leyen and michel, where is the money from the recovery fund? european citizens and the european economy need vaccines to save lives and money to save jobs, and that is what we lack for too long now. more action, less institutional fight is what we need.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, although there is talk of a new programme, horizon europe still has its old problems. it is still based on competitiveness, glorifying excellence and therefore maintaining the logic of promoting those who are already able to carry out research and development activities, exacerbating existing inequalities and asymmetries. we advocate a shared management system, defining and reserving national envelopes whose total amount should not be less than 50% of the overall allocations, thus providing for a balanced distribution of resources between member states with a view to reducing inequalities, capacities and r & d activities. the programme continues to fail to address the precariousness of employment felt by thousands upon thousands of researchers, some for decades. we need to enshrine their labour rights as the value of careers, guaranteeing stability and protection in sickness, in maternity, in unemployment, which is always on the horizon with the end of a project, a contract or a scholarship. these rights, although contained in the european charter for researchers and the code of conduct for the recruitment of researchers, exist only in the documents of the european union and without scientists there is no science.
mr president, i have often heard scientists complain that they waste time preparing applications that are too bureaucratic. worse still, they have shown me that applications for european funds, such as horizon, are much simpler than those for regional funds. moreover, synergies between the various funds are being wasted. a european fund application that is well assessed but not approved should have access to a green path to obtain regional funds. these are small, big projects that can be solved with a little technology and a lot of political determination, avoiding duplication of work and wasting precious time on innovation and knowledge production. commissioner, this crisis has shown the importance of science in meeting the challenges of the present and the future. we need to give back to scientists, valuing their careers and their time working for research. not only will they, but we all will.
mr president, the protection of citizens and the environment is a matter for the member states. however, in the event of a major event, the european union is able to assist the affected populations and regions through this mechanism in its spirit of solidarity and cooperation. the pandemic has revealed that, while crisis-prepared, the european union needs to strengthen its capacity to respond to any kind of adversity that threatens our health and our environment. a strengthening of this budget and this proposal will allow for more planning in prevention and preparedness at eu level with cross-sectoral and cross-border responses, for better disaster risk management combined with a strengthening of the strategic reserves of resources and better networking with civil protection authorities, regional and national. the eu is thus more prepared and more united. a special thanks to the rapporteur and to all the work here in the european parliament.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to express my full support for the proposal put forward by mr giuseppe ferrandino. i am grateful for the work that the negotiating teams of the three institutions have done to reach an agreement which i believe is balanced and fair. i regret that the council has not endorsed it. what is at stake, from the point of view of parliament, is to defend small-scale fishing. it is carried out by vessels that have access to limited resources due to their autonomy and their area of operation. around europe, coastal communities are dependent on the income of these fleets. we must ensure that migratory resources such as bluefin tuna are accessible to small-scale vessels and for that it is necessary to make it compulsory to allocate a part of the available fishing opportunities to this fleet. this is what parliament wants to achieve, recognising the importance of small-scale fishing and the importance it has had in restoring the conservation status of this resource.
mr president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, we support this agreement. the situation would be much worse if he didn't exist. but its implementation will have to be followed very closely and firmly by the european union. in these four months, difficulties have already been felt. fisheries was at the heart of many of the brexit falsehoods and was one of the hardest points to negotiate. the agreement contains a set of rules that will apply progressively until june 2026. it is imperative to ensure that the agreed rules are respected. there are signs that this is being made more difficult by the united kingdom, particularly as regards the allocation of fishing opportunities. fisheries companies need predictability in their operations. we cannot be entering may without knowing how much we can catch by the end of the year. the price of fish is not constant throughout the year. if there is no predictability, there can be no guarantee of economic stability for companies. the fishing industry is facing the perfect storm between the uncertainty of brexit and the consequences of the covid-19 pandemic. we therefore also have an obligation to ensure that at least what we have agreed with the united kingdom is scrupulously respected by both sides and i urge the commission to ensure that this happens at all times.
madam president, david beriain and roberto fraile, two spanish journalists working on a documentary on nature in burkina faso, were killed a few hours ago by jihadist terrorism. i want to give support and affection to all his relatives and pay them a meaningful tribute. they will always be in our memory. we are discussing the european globalisation adjustment fund. we have made changes to make this fund reach more workers, to make it more accessible, to make it more inclusive, because after this digital transition, after this globalization and also after this transition to a low-carbon economy, jobs will be destroyed, but jobs will be created and the european union will be there to be able to support all its workers so that there is greater employability, to support the most vulnerable and to facilitate the qualification of these workers. it is an example of solidarity that is present in europe's dna both when it was born and now to ensure its future.
madam president, the egf has financed active measures such as training, job search and the creation of businesses in the event of unexpected redundancies, which have been promoted in the context of the globalisation process or the economic and financial crisis. we support the improvements introduced during the negotiation process, in particular the broadening of the objectives, the reduction of the dismissal threshold to 200 workers and the extension of the reference period when this number is not reached , the co-financing rate or the simplification of the application procedure. these improvements, however, lack the appropriate budgetary allocation. and despite the improvements, this fund is still little more than a palliative, dissociated from any action on the structural causes of business relocations and capital flight that cause unemployment and social exclusion. workers can count on our firm opposition to policies which encourage the relocation of companies and on our solidarity in the fight to preserve their jobs, in the regulation and promotion of work.
in writing. in 2019, tourism and its relationship with other sectors of the economy accounted for around 10% of wealth generated in the european union (eu). the regions that rely most on this sector, such as the outermost regions, have been particularly affected by the economic and social crisis generated by the covid-19 pandemic. with the approach of the summer season we must ensure all the conditions for the safety of travellers and the operation of the sector in the short term. the european covid-19 certificate will be an essential tool in the process of standardising and facilitating measures to allow the free movement of citizens. member states will have a key role in implementing the measures and providing reliable and up-to-date information on the standards in force. we cannot yet forget that this crisis will go far beyond this summer. to provide a medium- and long-term response to our citizens, the eu needs to undertake a european policy for tourism, with a specific heading in the community budget. only in this way will it be possible to effectively support enterprises, in particular micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in helping to economic recovery and the green and digital transition.
mr president, commissioner, today commerce is increasingly online, advertising is more personalised, products are more connected, from a simple doll to a smartwatch. they change throughout their life cycle as a function of software updates. the rules of supervision to ensure consumer safety must therefore be different. but good rules in the official newspapers are not enough. without properly trained authorities to apply them, they will be of little value. and for regulators to respond appropriately to what's changed in trade and in producers, we have to invest in the skills of the people who work there and bet on using new technologies like blockchain to track products, artificial intelligence to determine risk zones. so, among other aspects of this excellent programme, i welcome the financial support of eur 105 million for the supervisory authorities of the member states, and hope that they will make good use of it in the name of strengthening the internal market and the security of all of us.
madam president, commissioner, secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, i come from madeira, an outermost region, and currently when i go home i have to go through three different types of procedures here in the eu. this certificate is a measure that should facilitate the free movement of citizens through the recognition of the vaccine, negative test or recovery of infection and thus complement the infection control measures already implemented. this is a necessary bet to accelerate economic recovery, freedom of movement, combined with pandemic control. the eu must take this step, but with caution. we cannot have a certificate which creates inequalities or discrimination for citizens or exposes their data or increases bureaucracy. on the contrary, i did. we have here an opportunity for the european union to show that it can have a coordinated and adequate response, which will facilitate and protect the lives of its citizens.
madam president, as we move forward in the vaccination process, we must recover freedom of movement, an indispensable step for post-pandemic economic recovery and restoring citizens' confidence. the proposal for a regulation on the digital green certificate, as amended by the european parliament, is designed to facilitate free movement, make travel procedures more predictable, ensure effective coordination between states, ensure the protection of personal data and respect for privacy, prevent discrimination and ensure that this instrument is not used indefinitely or for purposes other than those specifically defined. these are some of our concerns and these are the proposals we have put forward. yes, it is time to restore free movement with a reliable instrument capable of keeping pace with the evolution of knowledge and the solutions that science puts at our disposal. and, yes, in this matter too, we will leave no one behind. we have done our part, the council must do its part.
madam president, the digitisation of the economy is an inevitable and irreversible process, and that is a good thing. opportunities are manifold, but they do not come without challenges. digitalization brings the dematerialization of many activities. digital companies operate in our internal market, compete with european companies and generate their profits here. and if they do so in europe, they must also pay their taxes in europe. we have to balance the competition of the digital supply with the physical supply. to do this, we need to determine what taxation we want for digital companies, where they pay their taxes and how much they should be taxed. in a globalised market, multilateral solutions are required. trade wars cannot be new tax wars, and that is why we need a global agreement on the tax relationship of a given company with particular countries, and we need an effective minimum rate of corporate tax that ensures fair and honest competition, but is also a rate that safeguards the competitiveness of our companies, that stimulates innovation in smes and that ensures the rights of taxpayers. i have said it in the past and i will say it again: if an agreement cannot be reached, the union must be prepared to come up with its own solutions. a good agreement is the first step towards freeing european businesses from the tax burdens that are suffocating our economies, and it is with european businesses that we must build a decade of recovery and growth.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today there is growing consensus that we need to ensure fair taxation where the digital giants are also held accountable. we need fair taxes. there's a recovery to fund, and we're aware that the digital giants have won, and they've won a lot, in the last year. we cannot ignore the biden administration's contribution to this issue, in particular the proposed 21% minimum corporate tax rate. today, even the unsuspecting imf accepts and recommends measures like this to finance the crisis. today, this parliament is in a position to adopt a text that is on the right track, telling the european states that there are no excuses for not doing what is necessary, a fair taxation of the digital giants and the big multinationals. citizens expect tax justice. the time has come to live up to that expectation.
madam president, in the face of mr putin's numerous provocative acts, we cannot continue to limit ourselves to expressing our deep concern. it must be made clear once and for all that if anything happens to navalny, putin will be held responsible, that actions to destabilise the euro-atlantic region will not go unanswered, especially if they harm the territory of the union, as happened with the czech republic. military exercises which do not respect the principles laid down in the osce framework, which do not respect sovereignty, territorial integrity and transparency, as was the case with the manoeuvres in the black sea or, more recently, with the military exercises on the border with ukraine, will not be tolerated. the commitments in the helsinki final act and the minsk agreements are to be fulfilled. i agree with the high representative when he says that we must speak with one voice once and for all. and i add: we must speak with one voice, we must pursue the interests of the russian oligarchs and we must rethink nord stream 2.
madam president, beijing will not silence us. it will not silence us in denouncing arbitrary detentions, forced labour, the death penalty, the denial of freedom of expression or association or forced abortion in xinjiang and tibet. it will not silence us in denouncing the imposition of the national security law and the violation of rights in hong kong, and the imposition of the directive of patriotism to china in macau, undermining the freedom of the press enshrined in the basic law agreed with portugal and in force in the territory until 2049. human rights are universal, indivisible, and not a matter of domestic policy alone. beijing has to understand this! and we will not be silent in the face of provocative actions in the south china sea and off taiwan. the sanctions imposed on citizens, institutions, members of this parliament and on the european parliament's subcommittee on human rights itself are a flagrant attack on democracy. we will not bow, we will not capitulate! the investment agreement with china will have our full opposition until sanctions are lifted. china is an important partner, but our values are not for sale. to talk to us about trade, you'll have to talk about human rights. we will not let a dictatorship dictate the rules!
madam president, the chinese counter—sanctions are an overreaction that this house cannot accept. it is by no means comparable to put sanctions against public officials involved in human rights violations, and to put sanctions against elected representatives for our opinions and our defence of human rights, which are universal. this is a complete disregard for freedom of opinion and expression, and a lack of respect for the task of us lawmakers, and even for our voters. we are friends of the chinese people; we wish them well, we praise their culture and heritage, and we commend their remarkable achievements over the last years in terms of economic and social progress. but by being vocal against human rights violations in china, and indeed everywhere they happen, we are simply upholding human dignity, which no government is allowed to degrade. we will keep doing so regardless of any sanctions. finally, a word on the agreement on investment. the eu and china need to cooperate on economic and other kinds of matters – sure, of course. but tell me, how are we supposed to give our consent to this agreement, while fellow members are being sanctioned? first, drop the sanctions on us, and then we talk. only then can we work on a better agreement: fairer for our businesses and fairer for the rights of workers.
madam president, we should use the debate today to send a clear political message that would have economic implications. the common argument that we should look separately at trade and human rights cannot be used anymore after the latest events. chinese assertive actions targeted our institutions in the most direct way. we as the european union should be leading the fight when it comes to human rights protection and democracy, but also when it comes to defending european values. therefore, i do support the position that we should halt all the talks on the cai as long as there are sanctions imposed against our colleagues. we should be proactive rule setters, not a mere reactor. this is also a reminder to member states that still haven’t created investment screening mechanisms. while we negotiated with china on the rules on how we trade with goods, we should never trade with our values.
madam president, i cannot help but begin by expressing my solidarity with my colleagues in the european parliament who are being politically targeted by the chinese authorities for defending democratic values. if there's one thing that unites us in this house, it's freedom and democracy. and speaking of freedom and democracy, we cannot ignore that the red carpet that the european commission and the portuguese presidency of the council of the european union are giving to the autocratic communist regime by forcing the conclusion of the investment agreement with china validates the occupation of tibet, the siege of hong kong and taiwan, the persecution of journalists and the constant violation of human rights in the country. moreover, to think that a trade agreement with xi jinping will guarantee more freedoms and openness to democratic values is to fail to understand that china's entry into the world trade organization in 2001 did the exact opposite: it validated, in the eyes of the international community, the dictatorial regime and opened the doors of the markets to the expansionist and communist strategy of the chinese communist regime. i end with a message of hope and support for all chinese democrats fighting for a free country: your day will come!
mr president, 1964 is the year of the creation of the farc and the beginning of a long conflict, the longest of the armed conflicts in latin america, which has damaged the image of colombia, its people and its economy. let us not forget what we are discussing here: the fifth anniversary of a peace agreement which is a historic achievement, a blessing for the colombians as well as for the entire region. it would be unreasonable to expect that after decades of conflict dividing colombians, everything will run smoothly. the truth is that the agreement has withstood the natural difficulties of the process, and even serious crises such as the one we are experiencing and the venezuelan refugee crisis. colombia has responded to all this, and we should leave our praise and thanks here. nevertheless, it is important to draw attention to the need for greater efforts to better integrate communities that have lived for many years on the margins of colombian society, to respect human rights, to invest in people and infrastructure, including digital, so that inequalities are not the final blow in a peace process that has been so resistant so far.
mr president, in 2016, with the peace agreement between the colombian government and the farc, we all wanted to start a phase of progress and reconciliation. unfortunately, despite some progress, we are still far from the targets set. in these five years, more than 440 human rights defenders have been murdered. in 2020 alone, more than 240 people were killed in 61 massacres under the cover of unacceptable impunity. seven million colombians still suffer from food insecurity. the european union has made a strong contribution to humanitarian aid, but all that support will always be inadequate if we do not get to the root of the problems, if we do not tackle inequalities and accelerate the implementation of the peace agreement in terms of transitional justice, rural reform, the reintegration of ex-combatants, the fight against crime, and if we do not guarantee the safety of human rights activists, community leaders, ex-combatants and environmentalists. we have to go further!
mr president, today’s discussion on india comes at a very dark time for the country facing the biggest numbers of covid infections: more than 300 000 per day over the last few days. i’m very glad that the european union has reacted quickly and, via the eu civil protection mechanism, has made shipments of urgently needed oxygen, medicine, and equipment available. i would like to thank those member states who have worked within this mechanism, and there are others who have helped bilaterally. today’s debate was designed to be ahead of the planned leaders’ meeting between the eu and india in porto. it has been cancelled due to the surge of infections in india, however, topics on the bilateral agenda remain valid. the epp group believes that the bilateral relationship requires a constant improvement and deepening. we have by no means achieved our full potential. india will be, in a couple of years, the most populous country in the world. its rise since the start of economic reform at the beginning of the 1990s has been spectacular. our trade in the last decade has increased by 70%. the eu is ready to launch negotiations on the stand—alone investment protection agreement, which would increase legal certainty for investors on both sides. as a friend, i say we can also address some issues of human rights where we see negative tendencies. india prides itself on being a country that treats human rights with respect and care, but i think one aspect is important: the citizenship amendment act. i have studied it. i think it is about temporary privilege for some, but not for discrimination for others, so we should not criticise from this angle but look at other issues that are at stake.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. of course we are supporting india in this current crisis, but i think we need to do more than we have done so far. so, thank you to all who have helped so far. but i think we need to increase the supply of medical supplies and vaccines to india as well. but apart from the present situation, we must also look at how we are going to develop our economic relations in the long term. we've been negotiating a trade agreement for years, with no significant success. and that is why, commissioner, we may have to consider whether the mandate of these trade negotiations is still valid. because it's now clear that we have some areas of disagreement with our partner india. so i think we really need to change the mandate - where we want to focus - really. and one area is certainly investment protection. india has, as you know, repealed the old isds rules, which i very much welcome. they have the right to do so, they were faster and better than the european union. but now we have also moved to throw these private law disputes into the dustbin of history and want, if anything, a judicial situation. and i think we can negotiate very carefully about investment protection. in addition to the question of tariffs, in addition to the question of intellectual property, there is of course also the question of sustainability. i believe that we cannot conclude an agreement - an investment agreement or a trade agreement - if we do not guarantee that workers' rights are respected, that environmental standards are respected, that the paris agreement on climate change is implemented and, above all, that there are enforcement possibilities. and that, i think, is the lesson of our trade agreements so far: we need better and stronger enforcement capabilities, and we need to agree that with india.
mr. speaker, first of all, i would like to express my full support to the people of india in the ordeal they are going through in this covid-19 crisis. i, in turn, welcome the european union's provision of medicines through the civil protection mechanism. this shows that the eu is a trusted partner for india and a friend in times of trouble. the choice of prime minister antonio cósta to organise this euro-indian summit, even virtual, on 8 may is therefore excellent. we must enter a new phase in relations with delhi, relaunch strategic partnerships with a strong parliamentary dimension, promote an open and demanding dialogue on respect for human rights and the role of civil society, work towards an investment protection agreement, act together against climate change. the geopolitical balances in the world and in asia are shifting and a strong alliance between europe and india is fundamental. we don't have to agree on everything to agree on the essentials.
mr president, as a portuguese and a communist, i cannot help mentioning that this year marks the 60th anniversary of the liberation of goa, daman and diu from portuguese colonialism. it is an event that reminds us that international relations must be guided by principles such as respect for sovereignty and independence, the development of mutually beneficial economic, scientific, social and cultural relations, principles which must guide the relations between each of the different countries that make up the european union and india. this means rejecting policies aimed at imposing relations of domination and dependence, the primacy of the interests of financial and economic groups over the rights of workers and peoples, and confrontation at the international level. i would like to take this opportunity to greet all those who, whether in the countries of the european union or in india, are fighting for their legitimate rights to work with rights, to produce, to a fair and decent income, to health, to education, to social progress.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the covid-19 containment measures have exposed the precarious situation in which millions of children live and shown the importance of universal and free access to care and services. the child guarantee may be a response to the problems of children in poverty or social exclusion, but we cannot forget the structural causes of this scourge. we cannot erase the enormous responsibility of the european institutions and their policies which have thrown thousands of workers into poverty, dragging their families and children into poverty, cuts in wages, pensions and social benefits, closure of essential public services, especially in rural areas, underfunding of national health and education systems or the role of country-specific recommendations which, in the name of the holy grail of the debt and market deficit, have sought to deepen economic, social and territorial inequalities. the best thing in the world is children. children's rights are defended through public policies that address their needs in a multidimensional way. they include the right to universal, free and quality education from early childhood, the right to universal, free and quality health services, the right to housing, the right to play, access to sports, culture, civic participation, to live in an environment of peace and solidarity, and the right to have parents and carers with work and decent pay and time to devote to their children, our future. child support is one answer, but it's not the answer, so let's not get our hopes up.
madam president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, the harsh reality of 18 million children at risk of poverty is eroding the very foundations of the union. i therefore support the proposal for a child guarantee which is due to the persistence of the s&d. it contains positive aspects, but it is at the same time disappointing because it is not binding, unlike, for example, the 5% of the european social fund which will have to be channelled to programmes to combat child poverty in the most affected member states. i would also like to highlight a structural problem that could jeopardise the effectiveness of the guarantee: the lack of accurate data on child poverty figures in most member states. without quality data it will be difficult to monitor and evaluate the implementation of the child guarantee. i therefore call on the commission to mobilise resources to support eurostat and the member states in collecting and processing data of a multinational nature. without good information there will be no good implementation and that is what the children of europe are demanding of us, a paradigm shift.
author. mr president, all of us around the world have seen our economies affected by the pandemic crisis we are experiencing, our routines disrupted, our public services challenged, our fears accelerated, the fear of illness, the fear of losing our jobs or our businesses. but the crisis was not the same for everyone. where inequality was greater, where jobs were more precarious, where public services were more fragile, where governments preferred to deny scientific evidence rather than do what was within their power, the pandemic was more punishing, took more lives and pushed some who had just emerged from it back into poverty. unfortunately, this is the case in many latin american countries, which are home to 8.4% of the world's population, but which have already recorded 25% of all deaths. in this resolution we call for greater help and attention from the european union to this region with which we have so many historical ties. this aid is needed now to support the purchase, production and distribution of vaccines, to combat disinformation. we call for a closer look also at the rights of women, who were in more precarious jobs, who saw domestic violence increase, who were left without access to the already deficient sexual and reproductive health, and yet that we look now at recovery and resilience in debt relief, in deepening science and innovation partnerships, for example in horizon europe research projects or in the creation of a new transnational institute for infectious diseases. we ask for latin america what we know is needed in the european union, knowing that the lack of aid to this region will prevent it from making progress in its peace processes, reducing inequalities and keeping up with the challenges of the future, the digital and climate transitions.
mr president, these debates on vast regions of the world always run the risk of mixing very different realities, and when we look at the covid-19 pandemic in latin america, although the situation is generally dramatic, we must distinguish cases. the worst of these cases is brazil, where more than 395,000 people have died. it is the worst case and the most difficult to answer because it is rooted in bolsonaro's most irrational denialism and the fact that he did everything to prevent the population from being vaccinated. it's not a mistake or bad luck, it's deliberate irresponsibility. time and the people will judge him. this is the time to call for the support of the european union and its member states to brazil and the whole region, through our civil protection mechanism, vaccination campaigns, combating disinformation, and ensuring that the poorest countries are better able to manage their debts. we cannot allow the irresponsibility of a few to jeopardize the future of all.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, covid-19 has not left any country indifferent to the force of a virus destroying health systems, and, as has already been said, the countries of latin america have been among the most affected. in this region, the pandemic has further exacerbated social and economic inequalities and exposed the fragility of health systems. this parliament shows its full solidarity with the region, but more must be done and the european union can do more. it is necessary to continue cooperating with latin american countries to face covid-19 with an active and present posture. we need to bet on a massive vaccination campaign. the need to increase production and distribution capacity under the covax initiative is all too evident. vaccines should be considered a global public good because no one is safe until everyone is safe, and that means until we are all vaccinated.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, contrary to what some may imply, it is not easy to resolve a situation that begins with a turbulent electoral process and opaque transfers of power, but which, fortunately, bolivia seems to have overcome, as the 2020 presidential elections and the recent regional elections have shown us. it is not enough, however, that the electoral process should proceed normally, all political forces must respect democratic rules and the bolivian government must ensure that the rule of law is respected, as it is its responsibility, by guaranteeing access to justice and the opportunity for defence, particularly when the accusations in question are of a political nature. political peace and stability of the bolivian regime are values to which we must commit ourselves. i therefore call on the external action service and all member states to redouble their efforts to support the dialogue between the parties in bolivia to ensure that this happens.
mr president, bolivia is still experiencing a delicate political and social situation, but it is essential that, after last year's elections, all national and international actors can contribute to a rapid return to democratic normality. the acts of violence that occurred in 2019 should be analyzed and judged within the parameters of an independent judicial system and without any pressure from the political power. the complete independence of the authorities is a guarantee of the rule of law which must be respected in order to be able to lead bolivia back to the necessary reconciliation of its society. political and social polarization is a dangerous spark that will inevitably lead to serious divisions and discredit the institutions. i therefore call on all bolivians to respect the powers that have been established and on the european union and its member states to support this country in a process of constructive and reconciliatory internal dialogue.
the so-called blasphemy laws carry with them a shocking level of intolerance and disregard for freedom of expression, belief and thought. the case of the arrest and sentencing to death of the couple shagufta kausar and shafqat emmanuel is an extreme example of what has been going on in pakistan for years. other cases confirm the violation of freedom of thought, the persecution of religious minorities and other forms of discrimination in this country. i express my disapproval of all this and call for the swift abolition of the death penalty, the immediate elimination of the blasphemy law and the release of all those still imprisoned because of its application. it is essential that the european union, through its delegation in pakistan, continue to support non-governmental organisations in pakistan that provide assistance to victims of religious violence and human rights activists, and that trade relations with pakistan be accompanied by an effective human rights dialogue.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, energy is a basic commodity which must be affordable for everyone. we in our group have worked to make that happen. however, this strategy will increase the price of electricity, making it difficult for our industry to be viable and leading households to suffer from dramatic energy poverty. all for imposing capricious goals to advance their green ideological agenda. the union's mission should be to ensure an energy infrastructure with sufficient capacity to enable member states to choose an energy mix that ensures their stable supply, without depending on third countries. this strategy of alleged integration, however, excludes sources such as nuclear energy, an autonomous source, with on-demand and affordable production, which has reduced co2 emissions by more than sixty gigatons. if this document is adopted tomorrow, be honest and, when the price of electricity in your countries doubles, confess to your voters that it was thanks to your vote in favour. believe me, i'll remember it in my country.
madam president, it is essential that the european commission puts greater emphasis and financial support to hydrogen as an excellent zero-emissions alternative to traditional fuels. i think it’s very unfortunate that when it comes to infrastructure and filling stations, the eu is way behind in comparison to other developed parts of the world. the joint undertaking for fuel cells and hydrogen and its further support is crucial but they can’t do it alone. despite the fact that technical neutrality is the official policy, if you look back, the commission was way more open and supportive when it comes to battery technology and electric vehicles. i think the time has come that hydrogen gets a similar boost from the commission in order to create a solid basis for the future european hydrogen market. electric vehicles have already planted their foot firmly, now it’s time that hydrogen and fuel cells do the same. i cannot imagine that the green transition can be achieved, especially in freight and long-haul transport, without hydrogen and fuel cells.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the strategy for the integration of energy systems is a strategy which the european institutions have decided to adopt in order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves with the so-called green deal. challenging objectives, but objectives that are within the reach of a europe which is the area of the world that has accepted these challenges the most: sustainability challenges balanced with economic development challenges, accessible to all; so don't challenge them to contradict each other. we sometimes take that risk. how can you avoid this risk? how can we prevent the green deal from being the grave of development but the cradle of development? the principle of reality must prevail, and it is right to take energy efficiency as a major pillar, but energy efficiency cannot be separated from cost efficiency: energy costs must be affordable for citizens and businesses. the hydrogen challenge must be a challenge in which the great goal of green hydrogen is reached through intermediate stages. this realism is our task. this is why the european people's party talks about "technological neutrality": we can't fall in love with individual technological solutions. the enterprise system builds the integration paradigm through a balanced relationship between the various solutions: we can't impose one!
madam president, commissioner, combating climate change is not just a challenge of civilisation and sustainability. it is an opportunity to equip the energy union with a renewable energy-based system that makes a decisive contribution to carbon neutrality, supports the competitiveness of the european economy and is fair and effective in eradicating energy poverty. the reports we are discussing here are a strong contribution by the european parliament to the successful implementation of the climate law and its objectives. delivering on energy system integration and hydrogen strategies requires a clear and long-term vision and reporting framework, a just transition and an ambitious focus on scientific development and technological innovation, and on the production, storage, transmission and use of renewable energy and, in particular, green hydrogen. it's not just the energy system that we're transforming. it is a new model of economic and social organisation that we are building, a new cycle of opportunities to create wealth, jobs and a better quality of life, taking european leadership on the way to a less unequal, more sustainable and better quality of life society.
i have to say that i am very pleased. first of all, congratulations to our two rapporteurs on these two important files. the fight against climate change is urgent and the eu must take the lead. it is precisely cross-sector approaches, cross-sector linkages, that are crucial in the next step in the green transition, because only by going cross-sector can we really fight climate change. the development of green hydrogen is the future for many of the sectors that cannot be electrified immediately, such as heavy transport and industry. but hydrogen requires large amounts of green renewable energy. as the european parliament's rapporteur on the eu's offshore strategy, i am working to harness the potential of the seas by creating an ambitious intersectoral link so that green hydrogen can be produced on the basis of green power from offshore wind, and by integrating wind energy, through power-to-x and also in district heating, so that green renewable energy can fill much more of our energy supply than it does today. we can take inspiration from what is happening in skive in denmark, where the so-called greenlab has been set up, which is just now being used across sectors.
madam president, the long process of privatisation in the energy sector, promoted and encouraged by the european union, is contrary to national interests and has contributed to the destruction of the productive apparatus and skilled employment, thus increasing the external dependence of countries such as portugal. under the pretext of a green transition, radical energy closures and industrial restructuring are already in sight with a view to the early decommissioning of production units based on conventional energy sources with the harmful consequences for the productive and industrial capacity of states and without any environmental benefit. this is the case in portugal with the recent closure of the matosinhos refinery, whose workers here are to be congratulated for their struggle in defence of their jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. will they play only a notarial role, facilitating private investment, once again placing the question of energy sovereignty at the mercy of the sacred market and leaving states and peoples hostage to the interests of the large economic and multinational groups in the sector?
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i wish to start by thanking the chair of our committee, the committee on regional development (regi), younous omarjee, the german presidency, and also our rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, particularly our rapporteur, manolis kefalogiannis, and commissioner ferreira. this is indeed a great day. with the just transition fund, the european union starts to put into concrete action those words that we have said, ‘leave no one behind’. from now on, this should only be the first day because, in all the implementation of the green deal, this should be the principle. we will not have a green transition if the transition is not just, if we leave anybody behind. that is our goal is and that’s what we have expressed with the just transition fund. we want more funds, but we want more policies going in this direction. the european parliament secured its priorities in the negotiation. we focused the just transition fund on the social consequences of the transition, not just – although it’s important – the reskilling of workers but, far beyond that, investment in job creation at a local level in the most affected regions through economic diversification and smes, through the social infrastructures and services in the local communities, and by also tackling energy poverty, which is critical in many of our regions and in many of our countries. we also put climate conditionality into the fund. half of this fund will only be available to those who commit to the climate targets and, yes, we put the green reward mechanism in the instrument. we did well. this is the beginning of a great transition supported by european funds.
madam president, commissioner, when we voted for a just transition fund, we assumed that the objectives of the european green deal could only be achieved if we preserve social cohesion and protect those who can be reached. the portuguese oil company galp recently announced the closure of its refinery in matosinhos, near porto. the closure is justified for environmental reasons, but it will greatly increase the company's profits and cause the layoffs of hundreds of workers. it is urgent to develop an innovative and environmentally sustainable economic project throughout this vast area and to support the retraining of workers. that work can and should be supported by this fund. but be careful. at the same time, it is imperative to avoid abuses, so that the company does not evade its responsibilities towards the workers and the decontamination of the land. the union is given a new instrument to promote social justice. let's get it to the people and communities that need it.
the current demographic trends in the european union are a problem at different levels. this should be seen globally, but actions should be implemented at local level, with particular attention to areas where the climate is more adverse and where access to services is limited or non-existent, without forgetting the specificities of territories with low population density, as well as the outermost regions. the latter suffer doubly from this phenomenon, either through internal migration flows or through the continental shelf. it is urgent to create the conditions to combat this phenomenon. in this sense, and with a view to fixing populations in regions with low population density, solutions must be developed to attract and retain populations, especially young people. we need an appropriate strategy for the development of these regions, which provide opportunities, good accessibility, access to services, employability and training and education. cohesion policy instruments are key to leveraging projects at local and regional level, in conjunction with the union's climate and digital objectives, which aim to ensure equal opportunities in all regions of the union.
mr president, commissioner, we are discussing a global health problem tonight that has a solution, but we are not doing the right thing in eliminating hiv/aids. one of the missions of the covid-19 pandemic is that we can respond better if we work together and coordinate with a global vision, and these good examples should be followed for the fight against hiv-aids. to do that, we need to increase health literacy, improve access to testing and screening services, improve access to medicines for treatment as well as prevention, while also empowering health professionals to better advise on these issues. we need to improve accessibility globally, at a fair price and in a timely manner, so that we leave no one behind.
madam president, the humanitarian crisis started too many years ago. europe is still trying to find and implement the proper answers, unfortunately. more than 600 people have already died this year – human beings. a solidarity response from member states, minister, is needed when scores of refugees seek protection in our countries. basic values are at stake when we talk about saving lives, about rescues at sea. protect and not criminalise those that are protecting our basic values like the ngos at sea. criminalise and never protect the smugglers that profit from desperation. on the external dimension of our policy, if we want to save lives, what we have to do is to properly handle through the partnerships with countries, in africa in particular, the situation of these migrants and refugees. promote economic and social development. commissioner, we need it for now, not for tomorrow: the full implementation of the global europe initiative. the strength for the southern countries can provide up to 30 billion in investment in these countries. certainly, the complex situation of ceuta, as you have mentioned, is now in our eyes, but also the situation of countries of origin like libya or of sub-saharan africa from which these people in despair come to europe. we need to act now to create hope where they only see despair at this moment.
madam president, human rights are amongst the founding values of the european union. we stand for them for all european citizens, therefore we must defend them for any human being. that is why there cannot be any conditionality to humanitarian or emergency aid. in the framework of the external migration and asylum policy, human rights must have a crucial role. as such, the eu’s cooperation with third countries on migration must, above all, respect and promote the human rights of those migrants and refugees across the migration routes. all the agreements, and particularly the readmission and border management agreements, can only be concluded with third countries that commit to respecting human rights, notably the principle of non—refoulement, and the un convention on the status of refugees. defending human rights is also creating the partnerships with countries of origin so that despair gives room to hope, so that human beings don’t feel the need to evade their countries to risk their lives on the way to europe.
the european union's external migration policy has left much to be desired. i regret that in this report it has been necessary to recall that this policy must respect, in all its dimensions, the principles enshrined in the treaty on european union and the charter of human rights. agreements which make development aid and humanitarian aid conditional on the management of migration, by outsourcing our responsibilities, are unacceptable. the money of european taxpayers cannot finance human rights violations, as we have seen under the eu-turkey declaration and the agreement with libya. the use of eu-trans-sam cannot continue to be shrouded in a lack of transparency, without parliamentary democratic control. agreements must be subject to a thorough assessment of their human rights implications. the atrocities committed on our borders must be stopped once and for all.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would really like to come here and be able to say that we have seen an improvement in the conditions necessary to strengthen relations with turkey. unfortunately, that is not the case. if the current negative trend is not urgently and consistently reversed, negotiations cannot continue in a business-as-usual format. positive agendas, commissioner, are really difficult to foresee in this situation. we are deeply concerned with human rights in turkey and urge its authorities to guarantee media freedom, political freedom, and freedom of speech on social media platforms. we express our support and commitment with a large pro-democratic and pro-european part of turkey in turkish society. a lot of challenges for europe and its vicinity will be better handled through cooperation with turkey, but the current path taken by erdoğan makes cooperation, really, really difficult. erdoğan must change for the sake of turkey, for the sake of its people and for the sake of its relations with europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, first, let me regret the fact that the epp and renew did not allow this debate to be moved to tomorrow so that the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy could be present with us, debating with us, in such a capital moment. israelis and palestinians are living through another round of renewed violence. we strongly condemn all acts of violence and call on both sides to avoid any further loss of lives, but we cannot forget the source of this new round of violence. it was the increasing number of demolitions, evictions and forced displacement of palestinians, including in the sheikh jarrah neighbourhood. the right of israelis and palestinians to live in peace, security, freedom and democracy can only be achieved by the well—known two—state solution: the only viable vision for a just and lasting peace. at the same time, both sides have to put their houses in order. israel has to find a way out from its political crisis and certainly that situation is not helping in the current state of affairs in this conflict. israel must also ensure equal rights for the palestinian citizens of israel, who face daily and systematic discrimination. palestinians, from their side, have to restore their national unity as well as the democratic legitimacy of their political institutions through long-overdue legislative and presidential elections. the eu and the international community must step forward and take their responsibilities. the results and the new president in the usa must be an opportunity that we also cannot miss.
in writing. – the most recent developments in the tension between israel and palestine should call for the strengthening of diplomatic efforts, with the opening of channels of dialogue between all parties involved. i am convinced that only peace can solve all the problems that both peoples face. the european union's position must be one of active mediation, with the primary purpose of immediately waging a conflict in which the main victims are civilians on both sides.
the climate emergency and its impact on human rights, especially on the poorest communities and vulnerable groups of the world's population, are undeniable. in this context, the importance of the action of human rights defenders, environmentalists and indigenous communities, the true guardians of the planet's biodiversity, is growing, and it is terrifying to see that year after year the number of those who are murdered grows, victims of criminalization and intimidation covered by the greatest impunity. this is why the european union must step up its support for human rights and environmental activists, ensure that the right of people to prior, free and informed consent is respected, and pave the way for the introduction of the crime of ecocide into the international legal order. if we are not able to defend the environment and those who defend us, we will not be able to defend anything else.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, european economic integration has promoted and exacerbated the race to the bottom in the taxation of multinational companies' income. the european institutions have been promising for over a decade that they will combat this phenomenon, and now they are promising again, only this time there is no excuse for the united states not being there. what we have is a statement today from the european commission that it will not use the legal basis to allow this proposal to be approved by a majority in the european council; it will have to be unanimous. if the commission says it wants to approve measures against tax evasion, provided it has the votes of the states promoting it; you say you're going to fight tax evasion, as long as the thieves support it. if the commission submits a proposal which is rejected at first and then regrets the council's opposition; so this is not a compromise, it's a political fraud, it's to trick the citizens into letting it all go! let's not kid ourselves! anyone who does not defend the legal basis of the internal market, as provided for in article 116, and who does not approve this proposal by a majority is not serious when he talks about fighting fraud ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the ambition shown by the european commission deserves my sincere congratulations. reviving the european economy requires a vision of the future that is able to combine sustainability, competitiveness and social justice. putting into practice the ideas shared by commissioner paolo gentiloni allows us to build this path. in particular, the befit initiative should be a pillar of economic and monetary union: 1. addresses fundamental gaps in the fabric of tax systems that have allowed for aggressive tax planning schemes and, as a result, billions in lost revenue; 2. put an end to the unfair competition and 'race to the bottom' where those who are most willing to lower standards, i.e. tax havens, win; 3. creates a fairer common market, not only by facilitating cross-border economic activity but also by promoting opportunities for smes. the commission should also be able to provide information on the progress of the negotiations on the future of the union. this spirit of cooperation is the basis for building fairer tax systems and thus achieving an inclusive european economy that works for everyone.
the adoption of this flagship eu programme as it stands is a major achievement of the ep. erasmus+ has changed the lives of millions of people in 30 years. the programme will grow even further, thanks to the ep. with a strengthened budget under the negotiation of the mff, the programme will allow more people to learn, have different experiences and build new opportunities outside their country. exchanges that help to build a more cohesive, more knowledgeable, more tolerant europe. in the next seven years, another nine to 10 million people will participate in the program. by 2027, it will be 20 million. we fought and we succeeded in making this program more socially inclusive, increasing the opportunities for participation of people with fewer opportunities, people with special needs. we also ensure that all life-long learning cycles are incorporated into the new erasmus+ programme, with a new dimension, the creation of university networks, in addition to student mobility.
mr president, commissioner, minister, we are facing a global health crisis and we have only one solution: the vaccine. i commend all the joint efforts that have been made to increase vaccination of the population, especially the most vulnerable, but we have to do more. we have to protect everyone, because only then will we all be protected. the expansion of patents is a mechanism that must be considered and discussed, because the principle of protecting public health is above any economic interest. it's a mechanism that will allow the solution to this pandemic to reach everyone. situations like the ones we're seeing now in india or brazil increase the risk of new variants that could jeopardize all the work done so far in inoculating the population. we have to act, and the time is now.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, it is clear to everyone in this house that you cannot be a political decision-maker on the budget of the european union and a direct or indirect beneficiary of that same budget. that would lead to a clear and blatant conflict of interest. it would mean a lack of transparency in the recipients of community funds. we demand more transparency in the management of the community budget. it is the money of european citizens that is at stake. in the negotiations on the multiannual budget, parliament therefore asked the commission to create mechanisms to prevent such conflicts. commissioner hahn has told us here about these initiatives by the commission, rules which oblige us to publish the final beneficiaries of european union funding, rules which assure us that we are only benefiting from the political objectives of the union and these mechanisms are binding on all member states. member states must comply with them in a manner that respects the citizens.
madam president, with the loss of tens of millions of people of working age expected over the next few decades and the resulting loss of skills and competitiveness, it is easy to see the risk of delaying the construction of a genuine immigration policy by the european union. the creation of channels for regular immigration is the only effective way to combat trafficking and networks of exploitation of immigrants. it is a matter of decency to guarantee to everyone conditions of access to the labour market and of integration which respect human dignity. we need men and women seeking the european union, with medium or low qualifications and not just the highly qualified who are eligible for the blue card. we cannot continue to waste the regenerative potential that immigrants bring to our societies by condemning them, so often, to death on avoidable routes.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, there is a subject which has been off the agenda for too long and which is now making us suffer the consequences of this neglect. i could be talking about viruses and epidemics, but i'm actually talking about other viruses and threats, the ones in the digital world. just look at the news about the recent incidents of the irish health records, the french insurance company, going through the pipelines across the atlantic. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives, and has also been able to provide a number of proposals for the development of the information society. with this initiative, we are ensuring that in the field of skills, research and innovation. the work to be carried out by the centre and the european cybersecurity competence network will contribute to improving the security of information systems, the ability to identify and prevent cyber-attacks and to protect critical digital infrastructure. it will facilitate access to cybersecurity tools and services for european businesses, especially micro and small enterprises, and help to combat the shortage of cybersecurity skills we face in the european union, but in reality the benefits of the hub and the network go far beyond the realm of security. the impetus given here to research and innovation will be a factor of competitiveness and autonomy for the european economy, commissioner, and an opportunity to create more skilled jobs. sharing resources and learning together will achieve a better result, especially when it comes to cybersecurity, an area where it is urgent to bring member states closer together. without cybersecurity there will be no trust in the digital single market and without the digital single market there will be no 21st century european union. let us seize this step and broaden our ambition.
author. madam president, the conflict between armenia and azerbaijan has transformed the relationship between these two countries since 1988 and continues to cause suffering to the people. in the wake of the escalation of the conflict at the end of last year, which caused the death of more than five thousand soldiers in just 44 days and countless people who were injured or forced to leave their homes, many others were taken as prisoners of war and this is the issue on which this urgent resolution is based. in the tripartite declaration of ceasefire between the countries, they agreed to exchange prisoners of war, hostages and other detainees, as well as the remains of the victims, according to a principle of all for all. it is therefore unacceptable that to this day some armenian prisoners are still being held in azerbaijan and that we continue to receive reports of torture and degrading treatment of detainees in clear violation of the geneva convention. we therefore call for the immediate and unconditional release of all prisoners and for the full implementation of the ceasefire agreement. it is essential that both sides abandon hostile rhetoric and swiftly resume high-level political dialogue under the leadership of the minsk group co-chairs. only a negotiated political solution, respecting the basic principles of the osce, will be able to determine the future of the region in a peaceful, lasting and sustainable way.
mr president, commissioner, the frost that has just hit several member states is a real disaster for agriculture, especially for wine growers and for tree growers, as has been said at length. in france, the losses are estimated at €5 billion. this is another blow to a sector which has made it possible - need i remind you? - by its commitment to prevent the health crisis from becoming a food crisis. the seriousness of the situation in several european regions requires immediate support for producers through the various mechanisms for burden-relief and loans guaranteed by the state. the european union must also agree to lift all requirements on de minimis rules to allow member states to pay the necessary compensation in the name of national solidarity. there is an absolute need for exceptional emergency aid measures - and you have said so, commissioner - and the situation is very critical, as you know, for many farmers. this new crisis reminds us that climate change is no longer a matter of dispute and calls for a fundamental change in the way we manage agricultural disasters. agricultural risk management can no longer be seen as just an emerging market for insurance companies and the financial sector, as it has been for over 30 years. of course, insurance should be used for manageable risks; but when it comes to natural disasters, national and european solidarity must take over. this requires being pragmatic and looking at what else works. look at the united states for example: when losses are more than 50% of the harvest, it is the federal state that pays for these losses. spain has developed an exemplary system based on a robust public-private partnership over the last 40 years. why not take a look at it? it is high time in europe that public authorities take up their role as guarantors of the public interest and unwavering support in the event of a major crisis to secure our food system. yes, we need trade and commerce, but we also need food stocks. what is more essential and more strategic than food? today, the issue of strategic food stocks has become a major issue. this issue must no longer remain a taboo for the european union.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today, 20 may, we celebrate world bee day for the fourth year running at the initiative of slovenia, in memory and honour of the great beekeeper anton janša. and when we talk about the slaughter, we also have to talk about the beekeeping and the damage that has been done to the bees, who, in cooperation with the farmers, produce food and provide us with food security. i can tell you very firsthand about the damage in the orchard. i'm a politician and a fruit-gatherer. i have three hectares of apples at home, and if last year we had 200 tons of apples in this apple orchard, and we had to burn the orchard to protect them from the overnight frost, this year the crop has been completely ruined, because 15 centimeters of snow, minus eight degrees, was too much for any active protection. i think it is right that we should be talking about this case in this parliament, because these injuries are becoming more and more frequent. in slovenia, we fruit growers have suffered the fourth damage, the fourth foreclosure in the last six years. it is therefore right that we should also speak out in the light of the adoption of the common agricultural policy for the coming years, to first seek out and put in the rural development programme the possibility of active protection, which is known to have certain conditions. i also agree with what has been said today about research into new varieties. but we also need active protection and a safety net, a safety net for flights like this one. this covid crisis, farmers have survived and made food security possible. i fear that these climate changes are causing these cases to become more frequent, so we certainly need to be able to jump in with a crisis reserve and help farmers, as we know how to help after covid with a recovery plan, otherwise farmers will fail and the next crises will simply not survive such cases.
mr president, despite all the technological modernisation, farmers' lives are still to a large extent marked by the constant shock of the increasingly extreme weather phenomena that dilute the very identity of the seasons. the unusual frosts which have recently severely affected thousands of hectares of vineyards and orchards are an example of this. agricultural activity is in fact different in character and is already closely linked to the characteristics of natural resources. this is coupled with their vulnerability to increasing climate change, which poses significant additional risks not only to agricultural activity but to food systems as a whole. of course, redoubled efforts are needed to effectively deliver on our shared commitment to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, but also to adopt concrete adaptation measures that mitigate threats, protect farmers' incomes and prevent desertification of our rural areas. we are talking about having effective risk management instruments which allow in extreme situations, such as the one we are discussing here today, to give a rapid response to farmers who, overnight, lose the produce of a whole year's work. but we also talk, for example, about supporting investments that increase fair access to water and its efficient and sustainable use, particularly in the most vulnerable regions such as the mediterranean regions, let me remind you here, where higher temperatures and reduced rainfall are threatening ever larger rural areas, condemning them to desertification.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of today's world bee day, i would like to remind you of their enormous importance, but also of the increasingly significant impact of climate change. the spring frost, the worst since 1991, has caused great damage to our farmers who are now reaping the losses in this already difficult period. in croatia, the damage caused by natural disasters in recent years has left its mark on both producers and consumers. frost damage on some crops is as high as 90 or even 100 percent. this is unfortunately very much in evidence in the case of the native cherry and apricot. the apricot harvest at eu level is expected to be the lowest in 30 years, and the domestic cherry plantations have been particularly badly hit in dalmatia. i would also remind you that during the current pandemic, farmers have already suffered huge losses. european agricultural production does not exist without domestic agriculture. it is therefore necessary to support farmers not only with greater investment but also with modern technological solutions. and speaking of negative trends, recently our winemakers have been alarmed by the signs about the commission's plans to favour dealcoholised wine. such alternatives must not be on an equal footing with our traditional products and must not jeopardise their access to the market. we in croatia are proud of our varieties and marks of origin and want to preserve them. in general, we expect the commission to be flexible and to propose measures to effectively help farmers, fruit growers and vine growers to cover frost losses.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm impressed with the discussion and the speech. the members recalled the dramatic scenes of farmers fighting to save their plantations, and we all saw the fires burning in europe. it was a dramatic fight, hard to win, of course, and the losses are huge. we all know that. i have great respect for the farmers for this dramatic struggle and i am sorry for those who have lost their livelihood. it is a dramatic situation indeed, and today we are faced with one. this crisis shows that farmers are indeed the first victims of climate change. the first victims, because it's the farmers that are most affected right now. we have a whole series of events like this that dramatically affect agriculture: disasters (these are climate-related), droughts, floods, hurricanes, frosts, fires that increasingly affect european agriculture. we have disease crises -- the pandemic has had a huge negative impact on the economy and agriculture -- african swine fever, bird flu. we also have political crises, like the russian embargo or the american tariffs. these are examples of events that suddenly hit farmers and cause huge losses. i think that the great risks of farming today are the main reason why a lot of farms are disappearing and why it's becoming increasingly difficult to replace generations in agriculture. farming is a very risky profession, and many people are afraid that in this profession you can do everything with the best of knowledge, will, and care and because of these various events, you can lose everything. so it's really important that we have a system of support for farmers in these situations? the farmers can't do it alone. as a commissioner, i would very much like to have such an emergency fund which could be set up in such situations to help farmers effectively. we have the budget we have. the contingency reserve provided for in this budget is small. we're still debating its size and how it works. eventually, it will be revealed in the trilateral talks how this debate will end. i am in favour of, and the commission is in favour of, strengthening the crisis management system in agriculture in a decisive way, so that these are more effective elements. it is also budgetary, because the crisis reserve has practically never been used in the past, because unfortunately only a minority of countries are affected by crises, and most of them are generally in favour of not breaching the direct subsidies or reducing them in their countries. and this reserve is dissolved year after year and not used. we're discussing this in the trilateral talks. as regards insurance, there is evidence and reports (such as the european court of auditors report) that agricultural insurance schemes are not effective. although it's different in different countries. the court of auditors' report includes a map of europe showing insurance systems. we have a group of countries that benefit from insurance subsidies from the european union budget (portugal, france, belgium, the netherlands, italy, croatia, hungary, romania and the baltic states). there are countries that contribute from their own budget and pay for insurance (spain, slovenia, austria, poland, greece, bulgaria, etc.). and there are countries that have no subsidies but only commercial insurance (this system is used in germany, slovakia, ireland, sweden and finland, among others). we really need to have a serious debate about how to strengthen the crisis management system in agriculture. part of this debate is taking place in the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy, but i think that is perhaps a little too little. we need to think about a long-term crisis management system in agriculture. there must be different instruments, including instruments that will increase the resilience of agriculture within the framework of strategic plans. we will be looking at this and we want member states to propose actions that will reduce the risk of farmers being hit by disasters and that will strengthen the resilience of agriculture. we have reconstruction funds that are being debated and member states are making proposals. agriculture is not excluded from the recovery funds and various measures to strengthen the resilience of agriculture to such crisis situations can also be supported. it has to be a synergy of different policies, it has to be a system that will strengthen agriculture, because i am absolutely convinced that we have to do more. farmers provide us with food security, and we should work together to provide farmers with economic security and help in difficult crisis situations.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. farmers are increasingly suffering from the effects of various weather events. for example, frost and hail are becoming more frequent in spring, which in many parts of europe seriously affects fruit and wine growers and their production, with considerable economic losses. similarly, droughts, heavy rains and fires cause enormous damage to agricultural activity. in the context of the discussion on the common agricultural policy (cap), we have proposed a public agricultural insurance, financed from the union budget, which would provide a minimum level of protection for all farmers in all member states. we believe that this would be a way of guaranteeing a minimum income to farmers affected by extreme weather events and other natural or man-made disasters, including forest fires, diseases and pests. the existence of such insurance would not prejudice the existence of other insurance schemes, specific to certain sectors, and would ensure a minimum level of protection for farmers. in the current situation, where mitigation and adaptation measures are still lacking, the creation of this insurance would be a more than fair measure. unfortunately, this proposal of ours has been rejected by the majority in this parliament.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the landscape of small and mediumsized enterprises in the european union is heterogeneous. many of them struggle daily against the crushing of large economic groups and the unfair and unequal competition of large companies and multinationals which contribute to social dumping, deregulation of labour relations and insolvency. with covid-19, the contrast between member states in the capacity to intervene in support of smes has exacerbated inequalities between these companies and, at the same time, has drawn attention to the different national specificities. it is therefore important that the member states should be able to intervene to support the solvency of smes in difficulty, and such support should presuppose the preservation of jobs, the defence of wages and full respect for workers' rights. in order for member states to be able to support small and medium-sized enterprises in the transition processes in the areas of sustainability and digitalisation, it is essential that the european union's impositions and constraints be eliminated through so-called economic governance and that member states have the means, including financial means, to promote these transitions within the framework of cohesion policy.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, this crisis has shown that no set of european rules can withstand a crisis. budgetary rules, financial system rules, competition rules, whenever the european union and the euro zone are faced with a crisis, they have to suspend all their fundamental rules. that should give you pause, but apparently it is not in this report. the competition rules were suspended so that germany could, thanks to the suspension of the budgetary rules, inject tens of billions of euros into its public or private companies. the european commission, which has always applied the rules in a highly discretionary and uneven manner between member states, is now also applying the suspension of the rules in an equally discretionary and uneven manner between member states. and, interestingly, it continues to see no competition problems in fiscal dumping, social dumping, labour dumping and environmental dumping, which continue to be the business model of most eu member states. discretion in everything, including criteria.
madam president, the internal market of the european union is one of the greatest achievements of integration. for my generation, which does not know the closed borders of other times, there are three pillars of this single market which will progressively have to be greener and more digital. first, the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital. secondly, the european social model on which our social market economy is based. thirdly, competition policy which, when it is fair, fair and balanced, protects consumers and helps our economy to grow and innovate. some national politicians attack european competition policy when they do not like the decisions. the case of the portuguese government with tap, the national airline, is an example of this. what these politicians do not realise (or pretend not to realise) is that it is the european competition rules that protect the competitiveness of companies in countries like portugal. the pandemic has shown that we have a framework of rules that is flexible enough to deal with emergencies. what we need now is to look at the challenges of the future, which is increasingly digital and online. ensuring that the same rules apply to anyone selling the same product or providing the same service, whether it's on our street or on our screen. it's time to move on.
mr president, the recovery and protection of biodiversity are fundamental for the environment, the economy and society. only with healthy species and habitats will we have a resilient environment ready to respond to imbalances like climate change. fisheries and aquaculture depend on a healthy and diverse environment. so long before the european green deal, they have been adapting to fishing and production techniques with a lower impact on the environment. there are steps being taken in this direction, but the adaptation effort that fisheries and aquaculture have been making cannot be ignored. we must have an ambitious strategy. we must ensure that there is a balance and sustainability in the exploitation of resources and the preservation of the environment. this balance cannot, however, be achieved by excluding all activities. we must instead ensure that they are carried out with appropriate sustainability in all areas.
in writing. the eu digital covid certificate is a milestone for the european union. in just two months after the european commission's proposal was presented, we reached an agreement. today we have a tool which will be implemented in all member states on 1 july, and which will thus facilitate the mobility of people, safeguarding public health. this certificate will contain information about the individual's immune status to covid-19: whether they are vaccinated, whether they have contracted the disease and are recovered, or whether they are not infected with the virus. the latter shall be confirmed by a negative antigen test within 24 hours or a negative pcr test within 72 hours. the certificate will be issued by national authorities in digital or paper format and will be an important instrument to ensure the free movement of citizens within the european union. note the guarantee of privacy of citizens' health data throughout the process. once again, the eu is showing its mettle and responding to a global challenge in a coordinated way. the free movement of citizens will be restored, with an instrument that will complement all the prevention and mitigation measures already implemented against this devastating pandemic.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is fair to say, commissioner, that you have the knife and the cheese in your hand. all the conditions are met for the commission, on behalf of the union, to obtain financing on the capital markets in order to create a recovery facility. one after another, democratically, national parliaments have confirmed this. the commission is committed to a roadmap for the introduction of a new own resources envelope to offset, for the time being, the capital and interest costs of financing the recovery facility. we are aware that it is not enough for the commission to propose. but it is essential, commissioner, that we stick to this road map. perhaps the compromise reached at the g7 a few days ago can help to speed up the timetable for the commission and the member states to approve it. we know that the success of economic and social recovery, now and for generations to come, also depends on this. we know that the future ambition of the european union depends on its financing and that it also passes through here.
mr president, the idea of european parliament scrutiny of the implementation of the rrf is one which my group supports and on whose behalf i would be prepared to make very considerable political concessions, as the negotiations have shown. but the end result is too bad. the demands for scrutiny of the commission are absolutely paltry, especially when compared with the draconian calls for the commission to impose on the member states structural reforms which in many cases have had catastrophic consequences in the past and have been democratically rejected by the peoples of those countries. the specific recommendations even adopt a quasi-colonial discourse which reveals an absolute disregard for the sovereignty and democracy of the member states belonging to this union and also an absolute hypocrisy in the speeches. here we hear the president of the commission, who is no longer here, talk about the digital transition and the green transition. but at the same time as these fine speeches are being made here in the european parliament, the technical teams of the commission are calling on the government of my country to cut health care, to cut pensions and to further deregulate the labour market. if the idea is to hand over some of the biggest countries in the european union to the far right, congratulations, we are on the right track.
mr president, madam secretary of state, ana paula zacarias, ladies and gentlemen, we know very well that what is at stake is the economic and social recovery of the european union. and that requires a huge and concerted effort by the member states and the european institutions to get out of this crisis that has deeply affected our lives. it is in this combination of efforts - national institutions/european institutions - that we will ensure european added value. only then can we be sure that the green deal and the digital transition are effective and that they generate more equitable and less unequal societies. the european parliament is not the executive. we will act politically within our competence. but we will do everything to ensure that the recovery fund does not one day delay its arrival in the member states and, consequently, in the citizens. yes, europeans, who rely on the european response, must be at the centre of the recovery. it is urgent to approve the plans now, but it is also essential to ensure that they are implemented. we need a social scoreboard to show the progress of social policies and that the conclusions of the porto social summit are to be implemented. in line with the recommendations of the european court of auditors, we need to ensure that recovery makes a decisive contribution to gender equality, starting with the reduction of the gender pay gap by half. this time we have political objectives and we have the resources to achieve them.
madam president, i will keep it plain and short. the belarusian authorities, upon the direct order of alexander lukashenko, definitely went too far this time. not only has the belarusian regime systematically violated freedom of the press, democratic values and human rights, but now it has also violated european security, demonstrating that the belarusian regime has become a threat to international peace and security. hijacking an airplane, a european airplane, is an act of terrorism – and terrorism is a serious crime. the european union must not tolerate such behaviour, and we commend you, high representative, for the strong and fast response that you showed here, showing lukashenko that his actions have consequences. targeted economic sanctions to affect those responsible for the repression and the survival of such a regime must be implemented immediately. assuming the eu’s role in the world starts at our own borders, and it is our role to protect our security, but also peace, democracy and respect for human rights. (applause)
madam president, the afghan people have been living in a desperate situation for decades now. political and religious violence, severe discrimination against women and disrespect for basic human rights are far from having been eradicated, and it’s hard to be optimistic about the future given the recent developments on the ground, as we have talked about at length. increased violence has sparked fears that things may get even worse. the united states announced its full withdrawal from afghanistan, followed by nato. there is a high risk of increased violence. therefore, the international community cannot just wait and see what will come after this. the eu and its member states and the usa must remain engaged in the peace efforts, supporting the afghan authorities and promoting regional cooperation through a multilateral framework. the international community cannot turn a blind eye to afghanistan and abandon it to its fate. there are millions of lives at stake.
madam president, mr vice-president, we can say to all cubans that europe is with you, with your rights, against dictatorship and against repression. and that is why i say, and i say it forcefully: mr high representative, what the union's representative has done in cuba is not understood. it has put all human rights issues on the back burner and has devoted itself to defending one of the worst dictatorships in history, accusing our allies, the americans, of interference. this is not a way to contribute to better relations, but to worse ones. that you, mr high representative, do not know russia, we can understand. we cannot accept that he does not know cuba and the suffering of the cuban people.
mr president, mr high representative, i would like to begin by expressing our solidarity with the santo isidro movement and all human rights activists in cuba and urging that their physical integrity and personal dignity be preserved. we also hope that the european union will call on the cuban government to repeal laws that impede freedom of expression and association. however, we cannot ignore or fail to highlight the important steps that have already been taken with the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european union and cuba, including the defence of human rights. we also stress the importance of the european investment bank recognising cuba as a country eligible for access to its financing, as it does other countries with much greater problems. in short, we are as concerned about cuba as we are about other latin american countries in this crisis today, to provide them with the economic and health aid they need so that they do not suffer setbacks. the small, now great achievements made on the road to progress, peace and democracy.
madam president, mr high representative, it is true that four years ago we inaugurated the new political dialogue and cooperation agreement, which, incidentally, put an end to years of isolation, a position which also clearly proved ineffective. but we must recognize that, after four years, the situation of human rights and freedoms on the island is deteriorating every day. for this reason, if the human rights clause in this agreement is to have tangible results, we must redirect our action, the action of the european union, and we must implement the agreement differently. we must recognize that cuba is a dictatorship and that there is no other way out of this dictatorship than a democratic transition. we must put an end to this outdated dialectic, this abusive and anachronistic discourse that confuses the identification of the survival of castroism with cuba; that repeats "fatherland or death" while persecuting bloggers, singers, artists who are increasingly shouting in cuba "fatherland and life". that is where the european union has to be.
madam president, once again the european parliament is being used as a hypocritical forum for democracy and human rights. if this parliament were really concerned about human rights, it would be demanding an end to the criminal economic, commercial and financial blockade that the united states of america has imposed on cuba and its people for 62 years. a lockdown that the trump administration has cruelly stepped up, even in the context of the pandemic, and that the biden administration is maintaining. let's get serious about this. in fact, this debate has other purposes. it is intended to call into question the progress made in the normalisation of relations between the european union and cuba with the signing of the dialogue and cooperation agreement and to seek to impede the completion of its ratification and to create the background for further and unspeakable manoeuvres of interference against cuba and interference in decisions which only its people can sovereignly take. we express our solidarity with cuba and its people and praise their example of sovereignty, resistance, perseverance, coherence, courage and dignity.
the fight against climate change, the defence of human rights, the rule of law, peace and security, sustainable development are challenges that require global responses and reinforce the importance of multilateralism when, paradoxically, so many put it in question. in this report of recommendations to the council we stress the importance of strengthening the role of the european union within the united nations. for this it is essential that we are able to speak with one voice and move towards decision by qualified majority. the effectiveness of our action and our ability to influence depends very much on this. it is essential that the union is more active in supporting the reform of the un security council, particularly with regard to the limitation of the veto power which undermines its functioning and its composition by adapting it to the present world. let us be clear, the european union must have a permanent seat on the security council. i would like to end by congratulating the rapporteur on her very constructive attitude throughout this work.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, commissioner urpilainen, the establishment of global europe is, indeed, as you refer, a major achievement for the eu with which europe assumes its role and its responsibility in the world. the programme is dedicating 80 billion euros to promote eu objectives worldwide, including the sustainable development goals and the climate objectives. our political group, our political family, fought for having development assistance detached from any conditionality related to migration management. and i am happy to say that it was a great victory, not only for the progressive forces but mainly for the developing world. development aid is due to promote development, not to be used as blackmail, and human beings cannot be pawns in political negotiations. gender equality, social inclusion, human development are objectives per say. health, education, nutrition, water must be accessible to everyone. they are basic human rights. there is still much to be done, but with global europe, the eu is on the right path. let’s proceed on this road.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all those who have worked on the difficult negotiations with the commission and the council on this report. we didn't win everything, but we did get some important guarantees. of course, the 25% guaranteed for social inclusion and the fact that the fund for european aid to the most deprived (fead) was left out of that 25%. we also got the guarantee of minimum values for support for youth employment. they were very difficult battles and it's important that we were able to win them. however, i would like to point out what i consider to be the main defeat in these negotiations with the commission and the council and reveals the enormous hypocrisy of these two institutions, namely that the 5% dedicated to child poverty is only allocated to member states with child poverty levels above 23.4%. at a time when so much hype is being made about the child guarantee, to consider that one in five children being poor is acceptable in the european union was a bad sign given by these institutions. but they did not do so on behalf of this parliament.
mr president, commissioner, more than 60 years have passed since the european social fund was set up. in france, during the last programme, almost four million people were able to be assisted in returning to work, in re-training or in retraining. after these months of pandemic, the €88 billion of this new european social fund will have to be mobilised quickly to support the most vulnerable, the poorest, children at risk of poverty. they will also have to accompany young people, our young people who have been so affected by the crisis, who often lack training or work experience, even though they are the ones we need to create, to build together the future of europe. with this new fund, ladies and gentlemen, europe is at the rendezvous of solidarity. but the ball is now in the court of the member states.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i can only join in the thanks and congratulations that have been addressed to you, mr rapporteur, for the good work that has been done. i also note that there is a very broad consensus and very broad support for this european social fund, which is - and this has just been mentioned - the oldest of the structural funds. so it is also a small reminder to all those who sometimes question or doubt the need for the social dimension of our europe. the founding fathers had thought of that. they understood that there is no strong europe without a strong social europe. i also believe that this fund is a response to the expectations of these europeans - and more than 90% of them have expressed their expectations and their wish for a strong social europe. now, let's get to work. i take up the motto of the portuguese presidency, which i would also like to congratulate on having contributed to this compromise, and whose motto is: 'it's time to deliver'.
the debate is closed with the words of greeting to the portuguese presidency. i would like to inform the house that no proposals to reject the council's positions or amendments under rules 67 and 68 have been tabled on the recommendations for second reading by mr pospíšil on the establishment of the financial support instrument for customs control equipment and by mr casa on the european social fund plus. the council's positions are therefore deemed to be approved and the proposed acts adopted. the session is adjourned for a few minutes. we shall resume work at 8 p.m. with the opening of the second round of voting today. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. i am very pleased that agreement has been reached on the esf+ fund, which will play a key role in europe's post-pandemic recovery and in strengthening the social pillar. in 2019, there were 18 million children at risk of poverty and social exclusion in the eu. the social and economic crisis caused by the covid-19 outbreak has disproportionately increased child poverty and inequality. child poverty is widespread in all member states and is higher than that of working-age adults. the esf+ is becoming one of the main tools to tackle child poverty. the youths were also deeply affected. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. youth unemployment stood at 17.8% at the latest and is more than 10 percentage points higher than adult unemployment. the esf+ is becoming one of the main tools to tackle child poverty and the main eu funding instrument for the recently adopted enhanced youth guarantee and other relevant measures under the youth employment initiative. i am very much hopeful that the commission will do its utmost to ensure that the member states allocate adequate esf+ funding to the esf+ programme, thereby contributing to the implementation of the european child guarantee and youth guarantee initiative, and will encourage member states to use other eu funding instruments and available national resources to support appropriate investments in this area.
in writing. the interinstitutional agreement on the european social fund regulation which was adopted today is far from providing a solution to the problems. the esf has played a leading role in public funding of social policies in portugal. we advocated in 2019 a considerable increase in budget allocation, a proposal that the covid-19 accelerated crisis has proven to be fundamental. we cannot but regret the agreement reached, which provides for a lower appropriation at 2018 prices compared to the previous mff. the agreement reached is also affected by the political conditionality imposed by the subordination of esf+ to the european semester and the country specific recommendations, instruments which have contributed so much to the deterioration of the social and labour situation in the member states. in our view, what was needed in this interinstitutional agreement was a substantial increase in the esf+ budget and support for projects that place value on free, universal, quality public health and education services as a key factor in tackling social problems and challenges.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, climate change has an impact on infrastructure and the economy, but it also has social effects which cannot be ignored. the loss of jobs, particularly in fisheries, is an important consequence to be taken into account. measures to make fisheries and aquaculture more resilient imply environmental, economic and social sustainability. the measures to mitigate and combat climate change will therefore also have to guarantee employment. fishing faces an added challenge, the increasing average age of fishermen. making fisheries resilient means ensuring decent employment with conditions of safety and stability. this is the only way to contribute to the generational renewal of fishermen. young people are better prepared for issues related to biodiversity, environmental protection and the digital transition. to ensure the continuity of fisheries and to make them more resilient, fisheries need this renewal.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, this will probably be my last speech here in this plenary in strasbourg as a member of the european parliament. i'm grateful that this is a talk about a subject that has occupied me for a long time over the last 12 years. i would like to say that over the years the situation in the fisheries sector has improved. unfortunately, that is not possible. the problems are largely old, the causes have been mentioned here on several occasions, and the solutions are: the development of small-scale, artisanal and coastal fishing - based on local management, which counters the increasing centralization of management far from reality - the improvement of fishermen's incomes - essential to ensure the rejuvenation and continuity of the sector - the improvement of marketing and a fairer distribution of added value along the value chain, more investment in research and knowledge of the state of resources. all this requires a greater role for the states and public policies, contrary to the logic of increasing subordination to markets and other constraints imposed on a supranational level. the fighting continues in the fisheries too.
madam president, commissioner, as a child of a fishing family, i learned very early on what sustainability means and the commitment it entails. life that seemed endless, that filled boxes and boxes of fish, went out. less fish, fewer boats, less quota... we were among the first to pay the social and economic price of assuming that we live on a planet with limits. now, as climate change announces irreversible consequences and new constraints, we who live by the sea want to prioritise the measures we will need to adapt to the new certainties. people in coastal communities live on the shore where they anticipate all the changes that are coming. that is why we are asking for a specific, priority plan that will allow us to be more proactive than reactive. we welcome the importance that the european strategy for adaptation to climate change gives to local communities and we want to take advantage of it by being protagonists in information, knowledge, training and diversification. we are asking for solidarity, empathy and affection. economic activities linked to the sea are more sustainable today thanks to the efforts of coastal communities. we deserve to be recognised and to build on the path we have taken to meet the next challenge: ensuring the resilience of a strategic sector. aquaculture and fisheries are not only key to european food security, but they also sustain communities and cultures that are an essential part of the diversity on which our union is based.
madam president, the issue of climate—resilient fisheries and aquaculture is indeed very important. but we need to address the negative impacts of fisheries on climate change, and we can start to tackle the problem by fully implementing the common fisheries policy and the related legislation that we already have. but i wanted to focus on the fact that the sector itself has an important role to play and must contribute to global co2 reduction efforts. a recent study published by the scientific journal nature showed that industrial fishing – in particular, bottom trawling – generates more co2 emissions than air travel. why? because when trawls are dragged along the sea floor, large amounts of carbon are released, which increases global warming and makes the sea more acidic. it also has an adverse effect on plankton and entire marine ecosystems, which produce more or less 80% of the oxygen on earth. so, on world oceans day, let us take concrete steps to end bottom trawling by eu vessels worldwide. without this ban, we cannot achieve climate neutrality, and this is the only option if we want to be coherent with the european green deal and the eu’s targets to reduce co2 emissions.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, months ago i wrote with great satisfaction that joe biden was a good man, who would certainly make a good president of the united states. barring any outright sectarian views, i would say it's almost unanimous that biden has proven to be a great president. now he's come to europe. i shall not go into the details of the virtualities and importance of this visit. i just want to reflect on the absolutely diametrical difference in biden's political intervention when compared to the previous president. even before coming to europe, biden was already, through various channels, revitalizing the transatlantic relationship, he was already in dialogue with the other g7 countries, he had already stressed the importance of nato. the european union has become a partner with a vision of cooperation and joint work. i should like to conclude this speech as follows: mr president joe biden, welcome to europe.
madam president, the european union has the necessary instruments to monitor, assess and respond appropriately to problems relating to the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights. prevention and promotion tools, such as the annual rule of law report, and response tools, whether article 7 or the article 258 infringement procedure. but the european institutions have shown a tremendous inability to enforce various european policies, while the european parliament has done its job. in matters of the rule of law, it's glaring. i could give other examples, such as refugee policy. it is imperative, it is unavoidable that the commission, as guardian of the treaties, should act against all persistent violations and mobilise all instruments, starting with the regulation on the mechanism of conditionality of the rule of law, which entered into force on 1 january, and which introduces a mechanism with effective consequences to enforce and enforce it.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the council and the commission on the follow-up to the social summit in porto on 7 may 2021 (2021/2714 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for this opportunity to speak about the porto summit and, more specifically, about its follow—up. as you know, this is a subject particularly close to the heart of the portuguese presidency and to mine personally. the 7 and 8 may were key dates for portugal and for the union as a whole. as the holder of the presidency and host of the event, the porto social summit was a central feature of the semester for portugal and an integral part of our vision for the future of europe that puts people first. the porto social summit comprised the high—level conference and an informal meeting of eu leaders. it was historic in two respects. first, the conference agreed on the porto social commitment, enacting the intention to put the social pillar principles into action together. it was co—signed by the president of this parliament, the president of the european commission, my prime minister (as the host of the conference), and the european social partners – the first time ever that this has happened. second, the leaders agreed on the porto declaration. this was also the first ever statement devoted exclusively to social policy issues. the social pillar will be a fundamental element of the post—covid recovery. its action plan will guide us in developing the union’s social dimension. together, they will help us navigate towards a sustainable and fair recovery that leaves no one behind. they will strengthen the union’s drive towards a digital, green and fair transition and will contribute to achieving upward social and economic convergence. in porto, we reaffirmed the commitment that the pillar principles will be implemented at eu and national level with due regard for the respective competences, the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, and different national circumstances. active involvement of the social partners and civil society will be key in this. these are not empty words. progress towards the implementation of the pillar principles will be closely monitored as part of the policy coordination framework in the context of the european semester, including at the highest level. the eu headline targets on jobs, skills and poverty reduction were broadly welcomed. they respond to the repeated call by employment and social ministers for a follow up strategy to europe 2020. the commission’s proposal for a revised social scoreboard also found a positive echo. both the eu—level headline targets and the revised scoreboard will help monitor progress towards the implementation of the pillar principles in the context of the european semester. the employment committee and the social protection committee have, in the meantime, agreed on the headline indicators of the revised social scoreboard, as proposed by the commission, to be used in the joint employment report. they are currently pursuing their work in relation to the possible integration of secondary indicators. finally, the idea of an alternative set of indicators to measure economic, social and environmental progress was also welcome, supplementing gdp as a welfare measure for inclusive and sustainable growth. building a social europe will always be a work in progress, not least because challenges evolve over time. it will always rely on a diverse toolbox and will always comprise different architectures. i am deeply grateful that, over the years, the european parliament has been one of the staunchest defenders of the european social model. your own—initiative report on a strong social europe for just transitions of december 2020 proves that social europe remains high on the list of priorities of this parliament. the council is also playing its part in this common pursuit of a fairer, more inclusive and resilient europe. important advances are being achieved under the portuguese presidency. on 14 june, ministers of employment and social affairs will adopt by unanimity the long—awaited council recommendation on a european child guarantee, inspired by this house. on other commission initiatives, for instance on the minimum wage and pay transparency, work will continue in the council. our presidency will not rest in its efforts to achieve as much progress as possible by the end of this term.
member of the commission. – mr president, madam secretary of state, honourable members, the adoption of the social pillar action plan represents a milestone in our common work to build a strong social europe, and it has paved the way to the porto social summit. i would like once again to praise the portuguese presidency and particularly prime minister costa and yourself, secretary of state, for putting the strengthening of the social dimension high in the european agenda and providing steer, vision and determination. it is safe to say that the porto social summit is a major achievement. eu institutions, member states, social partners and civil society have rallied around the common aim of further deepening the implementation of the european pillar of social rights as a fundamental element of the recovery, contributing to fair transitions and upward social and economic convergence. i came before parliament in march to present the social pillar action plan and the parliament’s contribution has played in this respect a very decisive role. based on your input and concrete proposals for the implementation of the social pillar, including on key targets, we have designed a long-term vision and a coherent and ambitious roadmap to shape our post-pandemic economies and societies in a fairer, more inclusive and sustainable manner so as to improve the well-being of our citizens. it was an urgent step to take in the face of the digital and green transitions. those are necessary transformations, just as it is necessary to make them work for everyone, especially for the most vulnerable or those exposed to the fundamental changes we are heading for in terms of their jobs and their income. as stated in the porto declaration, the pillar of social rights is a fundamental element of the recovery, but also of the union’s drive towards a digital, green and fair transition. it was also an urgent step to take because this pandemic risks leaving permanent scars and throwing millions of europeans into poverty, and among them a lot of young people. it was the right step to take after a decade of growing inequalities, low wages, low pensions, which also led to political distrust. since march we have taken a major leap forward, from the leap of faith of gothenburg, porto marked the moment to turn words into action and rally around a different message and a different project. the porto social summit has resulted in the commitment that our citizens expect, a commitment to a fairer and better future for all. porto is a collective pledge from member states, social partners, civil society and the eu institutions, that people can count on us to deliver concrete solutions for the challenges they face in their daily lives. having all these stakeholders committing to implement the pillar is an important political novelty brought by this summit. it reinforces the notion enshrined in the social market economy: all actors have a role to play in keeping with their sphere of competence. altogether, porto sent a strong signal and marked a shift with respect to our european social model. this is not simply seen as a feature that we need to protect, this is considered as the engine of our future prosperity and well—being. to make sure that this time is different, to make sure that we indeed reinforce the european social model, member states have agreed to three new social targets set by the european commission. by 2030, we will need to reach an employment rate of 78%. we need to target women and young people. this also means we have to remain ambitious with our proposals on minimum wage and pay transparency, but also for people with disability. by 2030, we will also have developed adult training, aiming to achieve the objective of at least 60% of adults participating in training every year, to ensure everyone remains relevant and seizes the opportunities that tomorrow’s world of work will offer. and by 2030, we will have to double down on our efforts to lift at least 15 million europeans out of poverty. it is the focus of our child guarantee initiative, which aims at supporting children at risk of poverty and social exclusion and providing equal opportunities, as well as of our proposal on minimum wage to combat in-work poverty. it will remain the focus of our upcoming initiative on homelessness and our proposal on minimum income. what are the next steps? implementing the action plan and achieving its new targets by 2030. member states have committed to this. the governance of the implementation of the pillar action plan is the key to success. first, we will have to follow up with member states and stimulate the adoption of national targets. we will miss our objective if some make considerable progress, while others stagnate. we have to improve life opportunities, working conditions and social protection for all in all member states. second, we will have to report on our progress towards reaching the targets, firmly anchoring the social pillar in the european semester process. we have proposed a revised social scoreboard that is currently being discussed with member states. this is a tool that helps measure social progress in this regard. i also welcome the initiative taken by social partners on the ongoing reflection on alternative measures to gdp. as stated in the porto declaration, we will also have to regularly take stock of our progress at the highest level. we will have to be ambitious and i would call on the european parliament to support, and i would say to stimulate, this ambition. this means that we have to strengthen our social economic governance. finally, we want to track the impact of future social investments under the recovery and resilience facility so we make sure this recovery is job-rich and fair. we have to look into the distributional effect of investments and reforms. we cannot claim to help the most vulnerable and then only look at the big picture. in this context we have to ensure a just transition. we have to measure the impact of our policies on people’s lives. together with member states, we have to set up adequate coordination mechanisms to deliver concrete progress for the european people. i am looking forward to having the parliament’s views, not only on the result of porto, but also precisely on the follow-up. and you have been a driving force since gothenburg to the summit of porto, to build this social europe which is so important for our union.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think there are two questions that people have been asking themselves on a regular basis. the first question is, which came first, the chicken or the egg? and the second question is, is the glass half full or is the glass half empty? and although there were some at the social summit in portugal who are known for their frequent cackling but rarely laying an egg, i want to focus on the second question, which is: is the glass half full or half empty when looking at porto? i think the glass is half full. although we were much more ambitious as a parliament in december when we were preparing porto in our own-initiative report than the commission was and much more ambitious than the heads of state or government have now shown in the final result, i think we have achieved a great deal. and nicolas has just described this, i think, well again, the way from gothenburg to now the summit of porto. and the secretary of state is right when she says that the issue of 'social europe' is not a matter that can be dealt with in one step, but that it is an ongoing process. and i think we can build on the porto result because, for example, we now have a joint declaration with the social partners on the european semester, where there is a common understanding that the european semester is also a proper place to monitor social progress and the implementation of the social pillar. we have often fought ideological trench wars here in this parliament. we can avoid this in the future because even the social partners have developed a common understanding here. and so in the future, we can focus on other things, like, for example, how can we strengthen the semester process? i do not know when the next social summit will take place, but i am quite sure that to make the glass of 'social europe' even fuller, the bottle is not the commission, not the council, but the commission is in the middle of this parliament. let's keep working on it.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, commissioner schmit, dear secretary of state, ana paula zacarias, ladies and gentlemen, ever since the european union agreed to implement the recovery fund, the digital and green transitions have always been at the forefront of the debate. but the social dimension of the european project cannot be left in the background in this case. either we make an effort not to leave anyone behind, or we risk alienating people and having the yellow vests back on the street. in this context, the porto social summit was crucial. we are committed to implementing the european pillar of social rights in earnest and to creating a fairer union, in particular in the context of the recovery from the covid-19 crisis. with the right concrete objectives, we need to create many more jobs, train and educate people so that everyone has a chance in the new economy and no one is left behind. above all, in order to recognise the dignity of all and to support those in need in difficult times, we must ensure that progress reaches all and not just a part of europeans. today there are still 90 million people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in europe, including many millions of children. while europe has a moral duty to help them, to lift them out of their poverty. this is why we count on the european commission, but also on the member states, to ensure that the objectives of the social pillar are now reflected and implemented through national recovery and resilience plans. that is why the budgetary rules and the european semester need urgent reform, which also incorporates the green priority and, of course, the social priority. today, thanks to the porto social summit and the efforts of the portuguese presidency, social europe is closer to being a reality, but we must actually implement the european commission's action plan, we must be ambitious in calling on the member states to join this effort. if everything could be done without a common effort, if each member state could do everything alone, we would not still have tens of millions of europeans in poverty and social exclusion. yes, the european project is needed. yes, european policy is also needed in this social dimension. we will not accept that tomorrow will be like yesterday, that after porto everything will be the same, that we will continue to talk only about cuts in structural reforms as a pretext for more cuts. no, after the porto summit we want a different europe, a more social europe, a fairer europe for all europeans.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, the country from which i come, my country, is flanders. flanders is the northern part of the belgian member state and belgium is also the border between northern and southern europe. since the foundation of social security and social protection in belgium, from flanders to wallonia, from the north to the south, where there is a different culture of social protection, there have been transfers, very large transfers, transfers greater - according to academic calculations - than the transfers between west germany and east germany after the fall of the wall. there is a long debate in belgium and the conclusion of the debate on the flemish side is that social protection and social security should become an autonomous flemish competence. it makes sense. solidarity must be built up close to the community. there has to be recognition. there must be subsidiarity, at the very most, and it is therefore illogical to take these matters to a higher level, as we are doing here in europe. i therefore call upon the european parliament: stop this expansion of power. let us not allow the european union to bottle up the flemish social security system, the flemish health system and the flemish social protection system.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, it is all right to put the social dimension at the centre of the political debate, but it is nothing more than propaganda if we take into account that the economic policies of the european union are profoundly anti-social and practically deny access to social and labour rights. an effective response to the serious problems facing workers and peoples today requires radical changes in the policies of the european union, which the porto summit did not bring. and the workers took to the streets in porto on 8 may with the answers that the summit did not give and that the action plan of the so-called 'european pillar of social rights' does not present. the right to employment with rights, the general increase in wages, the eradication of precariousness, the regulation and reduction of working hours with a view to the need to reconcile family, personal and professional life, equality between men and women, the strengthening of social security, the strengthening of public services and investment in the social functions of the state, these are the demands of the workers and it is for them that we will continue to fight.
madam president, between the lisbon treaty and the european semester, a huge contradiction has been created in europe. the lisbon treaty chose to say that the charter of fundamental rights of the citizens of the european union had no legal value, it was not community law. the european semester has given the commission and the council powers to intervene in key social policies such as public services, the labour market or pension systems. today we see this contradiction live. in the debate on the pillar of social rights and at the social summit, it was said that there could be no rights at european level because this is a responsibility of the states and therefore what we have are ideas, suggestions, recommendations, priorities, commitments. it's all very generic. but when we discuss mrr and the release of funds from the recovery and resilience fund, then there is the conditionality of the european semester, the structural reforms in the labour market, the pension systems and the cuts in public services. the european commission, the european union, has no powers to directly create or enforce discipline, but it already has powers to destroy it.
madam president, madam secretary of state, mr commissioner, the porto social summit signaled the european union's withdrawal from austerity as a response to an economic and social crisis. according to the latest eurobarometer, the union's positive image reached its highest level since 2009 this spring. the citizens followed the summit in a very positive way. it would be unacceptable to waste this opportunity for people to reconcile with the european project. the union and the member states must mobilise to implement the action plan and the european pillar of social rights, the result of a historic consensus. we need long-term solutions that are socially sustainable. we refuse to return to a rhetoric of bad memory that calls for structural reforms but forgets people and their dignity. we call for national recovery plans to contribute to the objectives of social europe. social investment must be encouraged, in quality employment, the fight against poverty, health, education and housing. we must rethink the macroeconomic criteria so that we do not end up with absurd recommendations that contradict the objectives of the social pillar. the social summit was the beginning of a long journey. the european parliament will have to play a mobilizing, demanding and rigorously monitoring role in this process. we will.
madam president, recent data shows that attacks that take information systems hostage and demand ransoms from their owners increased by 150% in 2020 and the ransom value doubled. the increasing migration of our lives to the online sphere and the increase in networked products, the storage and use of a lot of data, have made the importance of cybersecurity all too evident. the european cybersecurity strategy for the decade is a key contribution to keeping the union secure in the digital age. we need to tighten rules for critical infrastructure like hospitals. we need to accelerate the training of specialists, we were 219,000 short in 2019. we need to invest in digital literacy and we also need to tackle the gender gap in cybersecurity. the creation of a genuine european cybersecurity area, with information sharing and common responses, needs to be encouraged. like offline security, cybersecurity is a central pillar for citizens to trust.
mr president, commissioner, caroline criado-perez, in her book 'invisible women', shows us how the world is largely built by and for men. airbags, for example, were not designed with women's bodies in mind and therefore did not protect them adequately from accidents at the outset. this is partly because there is a lack of women in tech fields or because the data do not reflect the characteristics of the entire relevant population. the digital transition and advances in data science and artificial intelligence make this problem even more relevant. it is therefore essential that we take measures to ensure diversity in the teams working in the digital sector and in particular in artificial intelligence where only 22% are women. only then will the online world reflect the world we live in, where 50 percent of people are women.
in writing. the proportion of women in stem fields has not increased sufficiently, therefore more girls and women need to be encouraged to enter science and technology fields. girls do better in stem subjects in the first half of school than even boys, and yet only a third of those who graduate in these fields are women. the gender gap is particularly acute in newer fields such as artificial intelligence and cybersecurity. women must be strongly involved in shaping the technologies and science that will shape our future services and working life. the role of women in the digital world requires determined work and a change in many attitudes and habits. we need to act to eliminate gender stereotypes in these areas in schools and to promote the appeal of female stem role models. at the same time, we must tackle the inequalities in employment and work-life balance. it is essential to ensure a more equal future and a more competitive eu labour market.
in writing. the underrepresentation of girls and women in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (stem) is a reality that we need to reverse. the gender gap that exists in all areas of digital technology is particularly evident in innovative technologies such as artificial intelligence and cybersecurity. in these sectors, the average global presence of women is only 12% and 20% respectively. in addition, only 18% of professionals in europe in information and communication technologies (ict) are women. more women's participation has the potential to add €16 billion to the gdp of the eu economy. stereotypes and the lack of female role models are some of the problems that contribute to the low proportion of women in these fields. but the need for stem and ict skills is increasingly growing, from healthcare to manufacturing, opening up new and well-paying employment options for everyone. in this context, it is important to encourage women and girls to pursue education and career opportunities in these areas while removing barriers, fighting stereotypes and improving access to finance and investment for women entrepreneurs.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic has highlighted the critical role that science, technology, engineering and mathematics play in today's world. never before has the role of stem professionals been so prominent. unfortunately, only two out of five scientists and engineers are women. this gender gap is worrying, because stem careers are being touted as the jobs of the future, driving innovation, social well-being, inclusive growth and sustainable development. therefore, it is crucial to increase the participation of women and remove barriers that limit women's interests and choices in the stem sector. it is important to encourage women to take up stem studies more widely and to develop careers in these fields. i agree with many parts of the report, but unfortunately there are some problematic points in it that i could not support, such as the gender-sensitive language, the proposals for an anti-discrimination directive or a directive on women in management boards, and even the references to reproductive and sexual health and rights.
the next item is the debate on european citizens’ initiative ‘end the cage age’ (2021/2633(rsp)). i should like to remind members that for all debates in this part—session there will be no catch—the—eye procedure, and no blue cards will be accepted. furthermore, as during the last part—sessions, remote interventions from parliament’s liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
for the committee on agriculture and rural development. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. 1.4 million citizens and 170 organisations from all 27 member states signed the end the cage age citizens' initiative. in addition to the 1.4 million signatures, i'm sure i've received several thousand emails. all together they are calling for an end to caging and higher animal welfare standards. the initiative thus not only exceeded by far the required threshold of one million signatures, but also the minimum number of signatures in 18 of the 7 required eu member states. end the cage age is the most successful of the 76 registered initiatives over the last eight years and the first ever to protect farm animals. as elected representatives of the people, we take these voices seriously. we always talk about the desired increase in citizen participation in europe with this initiative we are experiencing it. on 15 april we gave a voice to the initiators; the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission is invited to present legislation prohibiting the use of cages for a wide range of animals, unless already prohibited. i welcome the fact that so many citizens are working for animal welfare. this shows that we as politicians have to take responsibility here. as chairman of the committee on agriculture, it is also my duty to represent our farmers. we must not forget that these already do a great deal for animal welfare on a daily basis. standards are improving all the time. it's about the right balance, like a lot of things. that is why we are calling for 2027 to be considered as a possible end date for caging. we would like to call for a detailed impact assessment, including a species-specific approach. in addition, farmers need both appropriate financial incentives and adequate compensation. it is also about the competitiveness of our european agriculture, including with regard to third countries. i therefore believe that this resolution is good for the animals, good for our farmers and a good sign to the outside world for further civic engagement in europe.
on behalf of the committee on petitions. – madam president, our petitions committee is receiving a large number of petitions from citizens and associations, who are very concerned about the various aspects of animal welfare: from ending the breeding of cattle in captivity to the protection of animals kept for breeding purposes, from the conditions of transport of animals to the banning of the cage system. today we are presenting the collective petition, in fact, the citizens’ initiative supported by over 170 organisations, and more than one million people across europe, asking to put an end to the ‘cage age’. this initiative has been submitted in the time when intensive animal husbandry is seeing greater public scrutiny at the european level than ever before. dear commissioner kyriakides, this initiative is the first valid for farmed animal welfare, and, in general, the sixth successful initiative among the 78 registered since the instrument was launched. when presenting, last december, the previous initiative – the minority safepack – i asked the commission not to disappoint over a million people waiting for legislative aspects and steps. to our regret, these steps were not undertaken, and the optional character of the commission’s action in response to citizens’ initiatives is maintained. a lack of response to successful initiatives undermines the european participatory democracy. and we know very well that trust in the european institutions is measured in their ability to listen and to act in a manner consistent with the will of the european citizens.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, less than two months ago i joined many of you at a hearing you hosted on the european citizens’ initiative ‘end the cage age’. i then listened with great interest to the organisers of the initiative, explaining its aims and aspirations, as well as the very interesting views and ideas expressed. the hearing clearly showed that the ‘end the cage age’ initiative enjoys broad support. our citizens care about animal welfare. the question for us, therefore, is not whether its aims should be addressed, but rather on how the eu should respond to achieve a phasing out of cages for certain animal species. the draft resolution you are due to vote on today listens to the concerns of our citizens and shows the path to a transition to cage-free farming as soon as feasible. our rules need to change and that is a very clear call from our citizens. during the hearing, the organisers of the citizens’ initiative also called for measures to accompany the phasing out of cages, such as financial support for farmers in respect to the transition they will go through, and an application of the same standards for imported products. the commission is looking at these requests, taking into account the need for a science-based approach and the eu’s obligation under the wto. of course, the commission’s commitment to improve welfare of animals is nothing new, and it does stretch back decades. i said that during the hearing in april. it does remain a moral, a health and an economic imperative, and for me it is a personal commitment to strive for change. our promise under the farm-to-fork strategy to undertake a thorough review of existing eu animal welfare legislation will be delivered into action. work on this has already started. even if the eu has truly done a lot in the area of animal welfare, there’s no doubt that more needs to be done and can be done and we are determined to join forces with you towards this direction. we have completed the evaluation of our 2012-2015 animal welfare strategy. the findings are now available online. they reveal an overall improvement in animal welfare across the eu in recent years. we have come a long way since the first eu legislation of animal welfare in the 1970s. equally, the evaluation points to areas where we could perform better, including simplifying the legislative framework. in addition, the fitness check of existing eu animal welfare legislation is underway and the commission will be reporting back on this at the end of this year. so your views in today’s debate, the resolution we are discussing and the follow-up we will give to this initiative later this month will be valuable inputs when we review legislation and decide on future action. independent scientific research and an analysis of the social and economic impact will be our compass when developing legislation and addressing citizens’ concerns. it’s clear that in this endeavour we need measures that will mitigate the impact on farmers when they need to make structural adaptations to the way they produce, and at the same time we acknowledge the need for sustainable food systems, the ethical dimensions around farming animals and the need to find solutions that involve farmers but society at large. in your resolution, you have highlighted the need for a more comprehensive food policy and well-functioning supply chain where all steps in the chain take their responsibility for more sustainability. it is what set in motion the farm-to-fork strategy and the actions we are discussing today in the area of animal welfare are very important building blocks in our sustainable food policy. so in ending, honourable members, i’m waiting to hear with great interest the issues you raised which will feed into our work. acting to improve the welfare of animals is an ethical, social and economic imperative. we should listen to our citizens’ voices and make this transition towards a sustainable approach as smooth as possible. this is european democracy in action at its best, and as such it deserves our support and our attention.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his excellent report, and also the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his excellent report. i want to say that i take the animal welfare citizens' initiative very seriously because it matters to me, too. and i say this to the people who write me dozens of emails, and i also want to say to them that we don't have to wait for new legislation to be passed, but we can change this situation today by taking an interest in what we buy, and buying meat and eggs from farmers in our immediate vicinity. of course, i take the work of farmers very seriously and their concerns about competition from third countries and also about whether citizens will be willing to buy eggs, even more expensive. they are concerned about the high cost and the rise in food prices. we are asked whether citizens will be willing to pay extra for more expensive eggs from alternative farms or whether we will help them to switch to other farming methods that require an initial investment. the end of cage farming is therefore not just a matter for concerned citizens and animal welfare groups, but for society as a whole and farmers in particular. i want to thank the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development for the fact that we voted overwhelmingly in favour of a resolution calling on the commission to bring forward legislation to ban cage-farming from 2027. that's the key message. equally important, we are calling for support for farmers who could make this change in farming and for the protection of european farmers from competition from third countries where they do not meet the same high standards. it is our commitment to the citizens and also to the agricultural community.
the text we are about to vote on is a success of our democratic functioning and a proof that every citizen has the right to participate in the life of the union through instruments such as the european citizens' initiative. in the face of almost one and a half million citizens calling for an end to cage farming, parliament has taken an active part in this challenge, calling on the commission to bring forward as soon as possible the legislative instruments needed to initiate the transition to cage-free farming systems. animal health, commissioner, is our health, and farmers and breeders in the union have shown that they are aware of this close interconnection by investing in the abolition of cages for many animal species and in increasingly innovative breeding systems, which have enabled the union to boast the highest standards of animal health and welfare in the world today. a further effort is now needed to ensure that the use of cages is definitively phased out, making way for more appropriate systems of confinement according to the characteristics of each animal species. it will be up to us to guide and encourage our farmers to make a leap forward in the quality of farming systems, which will benefit citizens and consumers and which will have to be defended at international level and fully respected by our trading partners.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we are here today because over 1.3 million citizens have asked the eu to stop caging animals in the european union. in cages, animals can’t move or turn around, can’t stand up or flap their wings. they are simply unable to express their natural behaviour. this is unethical and it concerns eu citizens, so it must also concern us, policymakers. today, parliament must send a clear signal: cage farming must be a thing from the past, as from 2027 in the european union. to protect our farmers, it is also of utmost importance that imported products respect the same rules followed in the eu. but why should this ban already happen in 2027? because the ban mustn’t be too soon or too late. otherwise, those farmers who transit first will be at a disadvantage if there is a longer transition period. in fact, in the eu, we have many countries that already make certain kinds of bans in cage practices. we must then support the dates that promote a level playing field for our farmers. an important impact assessment is also relevant to guide policy—making if this system shifts, but it should be noted that it must not delay the time—frame set for the ban, or lower ambitions. so to conclude, if we want to stop cages in europe, we must call for the eu to stop supporting intensive animal farming, and to reduce the consumption of animal products.
madam president, no, migrants and refugees cannot be used as a weapon of choice. the risk to the lives of minors is a very serious violation of international law and cannot go unanswered. morocco is an important partner in the region, but the partnership requires trust and respect and does not allow for blackmail. the defence of the principles of the best interests of the child and the family unit are inalienable. situations such as those which have recently occurred in morocco and those which occurred last year on the greek border can only be avoided if we are able to review our migration and asylum policy once and for all and to assume our international protection obligations in a spirit of solidarity. time is running out and it is up to the member states to ensure, within the framework of the pact on migration and asylum, a better way of protecting unaccompanied minors in the european union by putting an end to disappearances and all forms of abuse to which they are subject.
author. madam president, i recall that in 2019, in sri lanka, after the european parliament's election observation mission, beyond the considerations on the electoral act and recommendations for the future, i mentioned how touching it had been to see the sinhalese, side by side, exercising their democratic right, regardless of their origin, religion or social position. a sign of their willingness to work together, which politicians and leaders should interpret as forcing themselves to unite the country. none of this was said by accident. the profile of who was rising to power and the highly divisive rhetoric of the election campaign made me apprehensive. over time, the rollback of constitutional safeguards, the political obstruction of accountability, the exclusionary rhetoric, the intimidation of civil society and the use of the anti-terrorism law to promote arbitrary detentions of activists, lawyers and writers have shown that my fears were well founded. in the face of this, the european union's action in defence of the universal values which guide it must not be ambiguous. all those detained under this law must be given a fair trial and, if not charged, released immediately. the timing of the assessment of the preferential instrument is an opportunity to respect sri lanka's human rights obligations.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, autism spectrum disorders are a diverse group of conditions. although there are no official records in many countries, we do know that the number of diagnosed cases is increasing significantly. one of the main difficulties is the lack of knowledge about the disorder and its causes. we stress the importance of the union investing in research in this field. although the age of detection varies from case to case, there are warning signs that indicate the need for a thorough assessment. member states should be encouraged to be able to diagnose children as early as possible. often parents turn to health systems without receiving a response. the prognosis and course of a person with asd are directly related to the care received and the timing of its onset. a person who has access to specialised and personalised care from an early age has greater and better development opportunities, quality of life and optimal social inclusion. adapting the type of schooling to the individual needs of each child is a minimum that all education systems in all member states should address, especially for students with asd. the coexistence of specialised, combined and mainstream schooling with sufficient intervention and quality resources for students with asd is essential as a measure to promote greater inclusion of these people. we denounce the tendency in many countries, such as spain, towards an egalitarian education without resources to meet special situations and without respecting the opinion of parents. the union can provide an opportunity for the exchange of good practice between member states to provide better opportunities for people with asd and to reduce all their barriers. let's make the most of it. to improve their situation, we must avoid the ideological temptation that hides behind the term 'discrimination', a real mantra of this parliamentary legislature that leads us to confrontation and victimhood, as happens with the ambiguous term 'intersectional discrimination', which destroys any possibility of equality. it is, on the contrary, desirable to approach the question from a scientific point of view, solving the practical and real difficulties faced by these people. we encourage them to establish constant communication with the institutions that live with these people and represent them in order to be able to materialize the most suitable solutions. the integration of these people into the labour market is a challenge for all of us and a necessity to enrich ourselves with their value in society. the high unemployment rate of these people tells us how little capacity we have to give them the support they need throughout their lives. let's identify the strengths of these people to help them find the jobs where these profiles can fit in the job market. studies show that digital jobs of high difficulty and demand can be performed with greater excellence by people with asd. let's provide them with specialized information to train them in the different areas of professional and personal development. these people need to strengthen their emotional and social dimension and communication skills.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the employment figures show that there is discrimination against disabled people in the labour market and within that discrimination there is even more discrimination against people with intellectual disabilities and, in this case, autistic people. alfred einstein - who is speculated to have been an autistic person himself - once said that it was easier to disintegrate an atom than a prejudice. and that's the reality of ignorance about the diversity that exists within the autism spectrum. an ignorance that leads to the ignorance of abilities, sometimes even extraordinary, that condemns people with autism to a marginalization in all social life and, very particularly, in the labor market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to participate in the work of the european social fund. to do this we need active policies, policies that require states, public institutions and also private institutions, especially the largest ones, to have policies of quotas and the integration of autistic people into their staff. this also requires training policies for employers so that these institutions can properly integrate people with autism. just as we have public policies to remove architectural barriers for people with motor disabilities, we need to have public policies to remove cultural and organizational barriers to integration into the labor market for people with intellectual disabilities. we also need to make the paradigm of independent living the disability policy in the european union, and we know that there are very unequal states in the development of this policy. my country is one of the most backward in the european union in this respect. we need early childhood education through to adult vocational training for people with autism and we also need independent living support services that are compatible with the pursuit of a professional activity and the development of a full professional career. this is possible, but we need the institutions that legislate, the institutions that govern, to be the first, to be the first to apply these principles. we need integration into the general labour market, full integration into the labour market and this must start in public institutions and must be built up in society as a whole. let's do this !
mr. chairman, according to worldwide statistics, approximately one in every hundred people has been diagnosed with an authenticity spectrum disorder. so in europe, that's five million people. and even as society is becoming more open and legislators are adopting new strategies and legislation to remove barriers and improve lives for people with disabilities, when it comes to the employment of people with autism spectrum disorders, it seems like we're stuck. people with autism face high levels of discrimination on a daily basis and their employment rate is only 10%. this is very low compared to more than 40% of employment for people with other disabilities. and up to 80% of people with this diagnosis can be employed at least part-time. many times we hear stories of responsible, successful employees, even very talented people who have a great memory, can draw maps and plans with absolute accuracy, or can learn several foreign languages. however, these talents cannot be shown to the world. in slovakia, but also in other member states, there are successful initiatives aimed at employing people with autism. but these are run by non-profit organizations or initiatives of parents who want to help their children to be able to realize themselves. there is very little support from the states and the member states for such initiatives. even though these initiatives show us how it can be done. and it takes so little. supporting such initiatives, collecting data, sharing good practices, connecting jobseekers and employers, training on how to approach employees and colleagues together, and a little empathy and understanding would be enough. i trust that the european commission will do everything it can to make the strategies to promote the employment of people with autism spectrum disorders successful. because by empowering their employment, we will not only help the autistic people themselves to fulfill their potential, but we will fulfill our commitment as a society to the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities.
mr president, i would like to thank you. are you a person with autism? then you certainly have some unique skills that the rest of us don't. but unfortunately, there are skills that are all too often seen as a challenge rather than a potential. and that's one of the reasons why only one in ten europeans with autism has a job to look up to. a job with colleagues, with responsibilities and with the opportunity to expand. we must change this by creating a labour market framework that allows the unique and overlooked talents to flourish. before the coronavirus hit, i was on a business trip with the specialists. it's a great company that finds special talents for the jobs that lack unique labor. with the help of companies like the specialists, workplaces in europe can be helped to employ those on the autism spectrum who are able to work. here, the candidate is dressed to prepare him or her for the job market, and then the workplace can create a space where these unique talents can flourish. they can do this, for example, by setting up traineeships with guidance and support. but the workplace also needs to think in new ways, including by creating new roles that match the skills and competencies that people on the autism spectrum actually have. they are not to be employed under different conditions, but they may need to have a slightly different working environment. in this way we can ensure full employment, employment which creates value for the employees as well as for the workplace. the companies that see this potential in the different employees are not just socially responsible. they're smart, too. they've got some very loyal and capable employees because they gave them a chance. autism must never be a barrier to people's ability to become part of the community in the workplace. that is why we must enable all employees, all people, to fulfil their unique potential.
mr president, according to the world health organization, one in every 270 people has an autism spectrum disorder. these disorders are diverse, and the abilities and needs of people with autism vary and may evolve over time. some can live independently, and others need constant, lifelong support. people with autism are often stigmatized and discriminated against, facing difficulties or deprivation of health care, education, employment, or activities in their communities, such as cultural or sports. it is essential that they share the same rights and privileges as the whole population to the extent of their possibilities, taking into account their best interests. these rights must be enhanced, protected and enforced by appropriate legislation in each state. this is advocated in the charter for persons with autism, adopted in the form of a written declaration by the european parliament on 9 may 1996. 25 years later, these statements remain accurate and unfortunately timely. in fact, there has been very little progress in guaranteeing the rights and improving the living conditions of people with autism. it is urgent to achieve high levels of inclusion in school and society, thereby facilitating inclusion in the labour market. both at school and at work, equal conditions of access must be guaranteed, without discrimination, and the necessary accommodation or other specific support must be provided. we need to respect the characteristics and the pace of people with autism, without looking at immediate outcomes that are measurable on the scale of pseudo-normality or according to productivity standards. in the area of health, access to follow-up and the provision of technical, medicinal or therapeutic facilities that promote autonomy and quality of life, healthy living without pressure and without the need to choose medicines, technical aids or consultations on the basis of disposable income, which may not be sufficient to cover significant and very costly expenses essential for the lives of these people and for their integration into society, the family and the world of work. in short, it is urgent to ensure a set of rights in education, work, social protection and access to health, including mental health, technical aids and therapies essential to increasing levels of independence, autonomy, inclusion and quality of life.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, commissioner elisa ferreira, fellas, we did it! far from the spotlight that accompanied the establishment of the multiannual financial agreement, we have done all the silent work that is less understood and which has enabled us to give substance to these regulations which will now, in fact, allow all these resources to be used, which represent solidarity but also the promotion of cohesion in the context of the european internal market. a real opportunity for our regions, more necessary than ever, in the wake of this pandemic that we have also begun to face with the crii regulations through the cohesion funds of the structural funds. this is where we started and it is also with the resources of cohesion that we will face and respond to this pandemic, because cohesion policy is, in fact, the most important instrument for promoting economic convergence in the european area. it was therefore worth the dedication of everyone, from our committee chair to our commissioner, to all the other rapporteurs, to get to the end and deliver these results so that european funds can now reach the member states quickly and be applied for the benefit of people and regions. i had particular responsibilities in the negotiation of interreg. i want to highlight a few important aspects. european territorial cooperation brings regions, people and organisations closer together and thus gives a greater and deeper spirit to cooperation between member states and regions. the dialogue and the spirit of commitment in this process have led to a significant improvement in the regulations, the strengthening of the role of crossborder regions in the new interreg, where there is more need to stimulate cooperation, where the risks of desertification are greater. promoting the development of these regions, improving the quality of life of their people, is often the greatest challenge. but i also stress the thematic concentration on the climate and social priorities at the initiative of this parliament, or the fact that the outermost regions of europe now have an allocation defined in the regulation of 3.5% of the entire interreg for these regions alone. these are important improvements. other funds could be set aside, but the most important thing is to get these funds into the field now for the benefit of the people of europe.
in writing. cohesion policy aims to promote the harmonious development of all eu member states and regions, to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion, and to contribute to reducing disparities between the levels of development of the various regions. this instrument is and must remain the main investment policy in the european union, in employment and in overall growth, but it is important to adapt this policy to the new times. it is essential to focus on more flexibility and less red tape in accessing european funds, to channel cohesion policy towards projects that contribute to a smarter europe, with a focus on digitalisation and the creation of new jobs; on sustainable growth, investing in the circular economy, the fight against climate change, the energy transition and renewable energies. it is also urgent to commit ourselves to a more social europe, by putting the european pillar of social rights into practice and to a europe that leaves no one behind. cohesion policy must be an instrument of european solidarity and support development strategies at local, regional and national level, taking into account the specificities of the different regions, such as the outermost regions, and ensuring that we do not have a europe at different speeds.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr. president, abortion is not health. the simple proposition pressures the woman, compels her. it's a real pain in the ass. just when she shows us she needs help, she needs support, affection, she's left helpless. every decision taken here in the european parliament can bring us closer to the good or further away from it. the fact that this debate is taking place today is a bad sign. it is a step backwards in the defence of human rights and a serious precedent that calls into question the legitimacy of this institution. the union is going beyond its limits by meddling in matters which are the responsibility of the member states. it's a sad day. the right to life is being seriously attacked. we take a great responsibility with our vote. the future of our culture and identity is at stake. nothing can be more serious than not being pro-life. each of us lives because, when we were conceived, we were welcomed with generosity. this report does not protect the woman. it degrades her dignity, it devalues her, it subjects her to a false freedom that does not allow her to respect her own body or the miracle of life that she carries within her. it also attacks the most intimate and deepest space in each of us: our conscience. to strip women of their mediator status in life violates their heart, denatures our society, and cools them down. let's get back to sanity. correction is for the wise. we vote against to protect human rights. let us direct our actions in the common good and life. and we will see how the birth of each baby will bring us the light and love that will renew hope in the european project.
on behalf of the left group. other mr president, under the fascist dictatorship in portugal, abortion was punishable in any circumstances by a prison sentence of two to eight years. it was estimated that there were 100,000 clandestine abortions a year, the third leading cause of maternal death. in democracy, thanks to the struggle of women, voluntary termination of pregnancy was decriminalized in 2007 and the data show that since then there has been a gradual reduction in the number of abortions. those who oppose the decriminalization of voluntary termination of pregnancy know well that banning it is not effective in combating abortion. it only makes it clandestine, unprotected and dangerous to the physical and mental health and sometimes to the very lives of women, but only to those who do not have the means to do so in a safe place in another country. sexual and reproductive health and rights are not limited to giv. defending them also requires strengthening public services, namely a quality, free public health service and access to reproductive health services, including maternal and newborn health care, services for the prevention and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, free access to contraceptives, family planning services, the implementation of sex education, the rights of lgbtqi+ persons. we support this report because it reflects decades of women's struggle for their rights. the way is forward, not backward. don't count on us to get you back to the old days.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, supercomputers, a kind of supercomputer, are now one of the keys to digital sovereignty. climate science, cyber security, artificial intelligence, medical research - these are all areas where supercomputers are becoming indispensable. today, only 5% of supercomputers are european and none reach the processing power of the hexaflop, i.e. more than one billion billion operations per second. the creation of the european high-performance computing industry is therefore a priority, and our sovereignty is at stake. and i admit that we are happy that this european joint undertaking project for high performance computing is coming to an end, after almost 8 years of waiting. however, the european union persists in its adherence to this ideology of free competition, which is responsible for the destruction of its industry and know-how. of the seven supercomputers ordered by the european commission, only four came from a european company, in this case atos, and three from hewlett packard in the us or fujitsu in japan. how can you, in the report we are considering today, boast about the need for the european union to be independent in terms of computing power and at the same time have supercomputers built by foreign companies? in addition, it is imperative that the european union recreates a european industry for physical computer equipment. it is inconceivable, as is the case with atos, that the components used are supplied solely by predominantly american companies such as amd, intel or nvidia. the european union also needs to invest heavily in semiconductors. we can no longer depend on asian chip foundries, as the current shortage shows. finally, the european union blames a major technological backlog on the ideological blindness and incompetence of some governments. free competition, when it is aimed at strategic sectors, is nonsense. only independence and sovereignty can enable us to regain our technological place in the concert of nations.
member of the commission. – mr president, the motion for a resolution of the european parliament makes a number of valuable suggestions. we know that many of them reflect a similar approach as the council, and we expect them to be reflected in the final regulation that is planned for adoption as early as july. for example, the importance of the smes’ access and support for supercomputing, which was already at the heart of the commission’s proposal, is further enhanced. the proposals of the parliament to simplify the administrative overheads for implementing the actions is reflected in the central financial management, which is a major breakthrough. we also welcome the suggestion to increase involvement of the users in the joint undertaking’s infrastructure activities by creating a user forum. this is consistent with the opinion of the council, that has strengthened the user participation by highlighting that the design of supercomputers should be based on the user needs. i would like to reiterate our appreciation to the parliament for this timely and valid input that will allow a continuity of the ongoing activities of the joint undertaking and start of the new ones without any disruption.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 24 june 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the council regulation establishing the eurohpc joint undertaking in 2018 set the target of achieving the next level of supercomputing exascale performance (i.e. computing systems capable of performing more than one trillion (1018) operations per second) by 20222023. the large member states of the european union are also too small to compete with china and the united states in the development of the next generation of supercomputers. i am pleased that the member states of the european union have joined forces and decided to develop the next generation of supercomputers together.
the next item is the debate on: - question for an oral answer to the council on the 25th anniversary of the international conference on population and development (icpd25) (nairobi summit), by evelyn regner and tomas tobé, on behalf of the committee on development and the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-000020/2021 - b9-0018/21) (2019/2850 (rsp)), - question for oral answer to the commission on the 25th anniversary of the international conference on population and development (icpd25) (nairobi summit), by evelyn regner and tomas tobé, on behalf of the committee on development and the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-000021/2021 - b9-0019/21) (2019/2850 (rsp)).
a writer. the commission has already done so. from 12 to 14 november 2019, we were represented with a strong delegation from the european parliament at the world population summit in nairobi, so before corona, long before that. our messages were and are clear - even a year and a half later: we women all over the world must have the right to decide for ourselves about our bodies. the days of backroom abortions with many deaths must finally be over. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for women and men. it's about women's health. we must intensify all our efforts to put an end to violence against women once and for all. female genital mutilation has no place in the 21st century. access to modern sexuality education and contraceptives must be made available in europe and internationally. the mortality rate in childbirth and in newborns must be drastically reduced. so when we talk about sustainable development, women's rights and especially sexual and reproductive rights must be clearly at the centre. women's rights are and remain human rights. and the final declaration of the nairobi conference makes this clear. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of democratization in the last 25 years. we must therefore work harder to implement all measures for equality. otherwise we'll never reach her. and so an essential part of the declaration is universal access to sexual and reproductive rights for all people. we in europe have an important responsibility here and we must live up to it. we have to be the role model for women's rights. we must also invest money in the protection of women, in important development projects. it is therefore very disappointing that the good cooperation in the formulation and negotiation of this resolution is now met with so much resistance. this is the true reactionary face of some. and i therefore expect that in the future european states will defend women's rights with a strong voice in the world, inside and outside europe.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, commissioner, honourable members, thank you for this oral question, which provides us with the opportunity to address this very relevant question on women’s and girl’s rights, also in connection with our development policies. as you rightly point out in your question, more than 25 years after the international conference on population and development that was held in cairo and the adoption of the landmark programme of action, there is still a long way to go in ensuring that women and girls enjoy full respect of their fundamental rights, including their sexual and reproductive and health rights. the epidemic has affected, as we all know, in a negative and disproportionate way, the rights of women and girls. the eu remains nevertheless committed to the promotion, protection and fulfilment of all human rights and to the full and effective implementation of the beijing platform of action and the icpd programme of action and the outcomes of their review conferences. in this context, it also remains committed to sexual and reproductive health and rights. in addition to the european consensus on development, jointly signed by the presidents of the european parliament, the commission and the council in 2017, where this commitment is clearly reflected, let me highlight two recent deliverables that were achieved during our presidency. firstly, the council approved unanimously the conclusions on the human rights based post—covid 19 recovery on 22 february, as well as on strengthening team europe commitment to human development on 14 june. here we reaffirmed our commitment to the rights of every individual to have full control over, and decide freely and responsibly on, matters related to their sexuality and sexual and reproductive health, free from discrimination, coercion and violence. the document also stresses the need for universal access to quality and affordable, comprehensive sexual and reproductive health information and education, including comprehensive sexuality education and healthcare services. secondly, through the ndici, through global europe, the eu will have the funds needed to advance gender equality and fight against gender—based violence globally, highlighting two spending targets. first on human development, with at least 20% of eu oda going to social inclusion and human development, including basic social services, notably health and sexual and reproductive health and rights. secondly, on gender equality, with at least 85% of new actions implemented under the instrument, having gender equality as a principal or a significant objective as defined by the gender equality policymaker of the oecd development assistance committee. at least 5% of those actions should have gender equality and women’s and girls’ rights and empowerment as principal objectives. in conclusion, the eu and its member states remain committed to the promotion of women’s and girls’ full enjoyment of all human rights, gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls, including their sexual and reproductive health and rights, as a priority across all areas of action. we have the political will. we have the right legislative toolbox, and now we have a set of resources to mainstream this important dimension of our external and development policy. so it’s really time to deliver together.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of parliament, thank you for the opportunity to address this very important topic. i can assure you that the commission is committed to continue playing a leading role in women’s and girls’ empowerment and access to sexual and reproductive health and rights (srhr) and to promote the commitments reached in nairobi. i would like to make three points. first, our increased ambition is exemplified by the new gender action plan (gap) iii that the commission and high representative presented last november. we support gender equality and sexual and reproductive health and rights through a range of interventions at bilateral, regional and global levels. we closely partner with the united nations population fund to strengthen srhr and increase access to family planning in low and middle income countries through the unfpa supplies partnership. we are further increasing support for srhr with a focus on vulnerable adolescents in africa. i am pleased to confirm we issued last year a call for proposals to civil society organisations with an initial investment of eur 30.5 million. it will address critical gaps and needs such as teenage pregnancy, early marriage and family planning. the eu-un spotlight initiative, the biggest ever global effort to eliminate violence against women and girls, is up and running in 26 countries across six regions, with total funding of eur 500 million. of this amount, 100 million is specifically earmarked for srhr. second, with its 20% spending target for human development, the new neighbourhood development and international cooperation instrument (ndici) – global europe will further accelerate our support to help srhr and gender equality. ndici incorporates the gap iii targets on gender mainstreaming in projects and programmes. at least 85% of all our new actions will contribute to gender equality and women’s empowerment, and out of this a minimum of 5% will have gender equality as the principal objective. a number of team europe initiatives promoting gender equality and srhr are being explored with member states at country and regional level. finally, these investments in equality go hand in hand with our broader initiatives to support girls’ education. this is all the more relevant today as covid—19 has led to one of the worst education crises in history for children around the world, with young girls bearing the brunt of the suffering. this is why we strongly support the objective of 40 million more girls in schools by 2026 and 20 million more girls reading by age 10 or end of primary school. to achieve these goals, we need sustainable financing and this is why i am especially proud of our recent release of eur 700 million to support the global partnership for education over the next seven years. i look forward to continuing working with this house to contribute to providing every girl and every woman the opportunities to build their future.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the nairobi summit set out new strategies to achieve concrete targets by 2030, eliminate unmet needs in family planning, end preventable maternal deaths, and end violence and other harmful practices against women and girls. we acknowledge the progress made in specific areas such as increasing the availability of contraceptives or reducing maternal and newborn mortality, but concrete efforts and measures are needed to achieve the objectives of the programme. it is therefore necessary to guarantee the right to sexual and reproductive health, full access to ivf, freedom of choice for women in the choice of contraceptive method, more sex education, more information and awareness campaigns for women on sexual and reproductive health rights, continuous training of family planning technicians and, of course, the strengthening of public health services that guarantee the universality of these rights. it is time to ensure that these political commitments go beyond the paper and become concrete for all women, girls and young people.
madam president, dear vice-president timmermans, dear secretary of state the following persons are hereby appointed: ladies and gentlemen, today we have one certainty: we cannot continue to postpone change. climate action is the only way forward. but today we too can confidently say that we are on the right track. the european climate law which we have now adopted, i hope, is finally the symbol of the union's commitment to tackling climate change. i congratulate vice-president timmermans on his leadership in the process, the portuguese presidency on its ability to negotiate this agreement, but also our rapporteur, jytte guteland, who has done an extraordinary job with parliament's negotiating team. everyone has represented the european parliament, very well, the citizens in this process. now, as we start the climate transition, it's urgent to combine two fundamental dimensions, and this is my main message: green ambition with a strong social heart. this transition will have impacts on our lives in society, in transport, in industry, in employment, in energy, in agriculture. our goal, our duty, is to ensure that we have a just transition where no one is left behind, with sustainable transportation that is accessible to all, public for the most part, but also for individuals, with opportunities for all, with programs to support training, with programs to create green jobs, with decent housing, with housing where winter doesn't mean cold inside. we have to make sure that the new green paradigm also works for people, for workers. i wonder if this will stop the yellow vests from going out. this is what will make it possible to build a better future. today, with the european climate law, with the just transition fund, but also with the european pillar of social rights, reinforced by the recent porto summit, we have the opportunity to make a difference for the planet and for people. that's how we can build a better future.
madam president, vice president, madam secretary of state, today we are passing legislation that will guide us to our ambitious climate goals and make europe the first carbon neutral continent by 2050. we can't explore the planet the way we've been doing it, and anyone who thinks otherwise is very wrong. today we are responding here to the demands of young people, but also to all citizens, because we will be creating healthier and more sustainable environments. the impacts of climate change on our health and well-being are well defined, as are the solutions to mitigate them. scientific evidence must therefore support policy decision-making so that we can set realistic and measurable targets. i would draw the commission's attention to the specific features of the outermost regions, such as the ultraperipheral regions, which, because of their geographical and demographic conditions, have additional difficulties. these same characteristics can and should be used to make these regions hubs for pilot projects that will leverage the transition and help meet the outlined objectives. we want to get to 2050 with the certainty that we've done our best and left no one behind.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the instrument we are discussing here today is an important instrument because we know that it has been public investment, public policies, the public sector that has done the most, and has been insufficient, to combat climate change. however, it is impossible not to notice that the figures that are proposed for this important instrument are absolutely ridiculous when compared to the investment needs that were identified in 2019 by the commission itself. the commission, which says that we will need 260 billion euros of investment to tackle the climate challenge, allocates to an instrument with the aim of financing public investment in this same priority, in a funding gap, less than 0.1% of these investment needs, less than one thousandth of what is needed, with all the rest being debt. this exposes a deep ideological bias of the european commission towards public policy, an ideological bias for which the planet will pay dearly.
in writing. the public sector lending facility, the third pillar of the just transition mechanism, is approved. it is designed to help member states and regions accelerate their transition to a carbon-neutral economy, a key objective in combating the climate crisis. now is the time for member states to prepare public, national and local structures without delay to start building solid and innovative projects that contribute to climate goals, while also taking into account the need to leave no one behind in this transformation process. the european union has adopted an important instrument, but it must now be made operational. let's get to work.
president, commissioner, it took eight months for the council and parliament to reach an agreement to better protect children against sexual exploitation and abuse on the internet. this was not parliament's fault. online platforms such as facebook and twitter have been banned from using tools to detect child sexual abuse for almost seven months following the entry into force of the eprivacy directive. since the entry into force of the directive at the end of december, there has been a 58% decrease in the number of reported images of child sexual abuse and illegal behaviour such as grooming, while the number of reported cases of abuse and exploitation has increased exponentially in recent years from 23 000 in 2010 to more than 725 000 in 2019. active tracing and identification of victims and perpetrators is essential in our fight. i would therefore call on everyone to vote by a convincing majority for the derogation from the eprivacy directive and to take a stand against the sexual exploitation of children.
member of the commission. – madam president, there have been some questions here in the debate whether this interim legislation actually makes any difference. it does. this voluntary detection and reporting, is what helps us to help us rescue children, victims of child sexual abuse. that was what makes it possible to arrest the perpetrators and to put them into court. and that is, of course, thanks to good police work and europol. but without the detection and reporting of these grooming videos, pictures, it will not have been possible. so, again, i would like to thank you and special thanks to the rapporteur, ms sippel, and to her shadows, and to their teams, and the european parliament staff for working so hard on this proposal. i would like to thank you all for your commitment to find pragmatic and effective compromises and to reach an agreement with the council. it was not easy, but children in the eu will be safer from abuse as a result of your efforts. i think ms in’t veld said something important here, that politics is not about choosing between the evil and the good, it’s about finding the right balance when sometimes there are both different things that we would like to achieve or protect. for example, both privacy and of course the safety of children. and that is the role of politicians: to find the right balance. and i feel confident that we will be able to do that also when we come to our next task, because we have a lot of important work ahead of us with the long-term proposal. and i feel confident that it will be possible together to find the right balance also in the new permanent legislation. (applause)
in writing. sexual abuse and exploitation of children, online and offline, is one of the most serious and intolerable violations of fundamental rights, with victims risking to have their lives dramatically scarred forever. the eu has seen a dramatic rise in reports of online child sexual abuse over the past decade, with the eu ranking as the world's worst host of child pornography in 2019. the pandemic has made the situation even worse: the demand for child pornography has increased by up to 25%, leading to new abuses. a comprehensive approach is therefore needed, including prevention, repression, protection and support for victims, and involving the public and private sectors, including online service providers. the temporary derogation from directive 2002/58/ec allows the latter to continue to use technologies to detect, report and remove child sexual abuse and exploitation, tools that have so far proved valuable in identifying victims and also in preventing the same. it is now necessary to adopt long-term european legislation, which sets out a common framework for an ever more effective fight against these crimes, including through the creation of a dedicated european centre, as called for by the intergroup on children's rights and the european parliament.
the rapporteur. madam president, my first words must necessarily be of thanks. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. your work has been fundamental. i would also like to express my special thanks to my colleague, mr francisco millan mon, for having led the negotiations during the period in which i was absent from parliament. it was not easy and he had to work hard to avoid reopening the whole deal and renegotiating this dossier, as some intended. if it had not been for him, we would certainly not be here today debating the new fund. thank you, paco! i would also like to express my gratitude to the successive council presidencies that have been involved and especially to the german presidency, which has completed this long journey. last but not least, my deep thanks to commissioner sinkevičius, who has been present in all our tripartite dialogues. we have had very hard debates, i admit, in which each of us has defended our position, but the most important thing is that we have been able to reach an agreement. thank you very much, inspector! this agreement is the fruit of three years of difficult negotiations with the political groups and with the council and the commission, and with all the nuances they want to put on it, today we can say that we have reached a good agreement. an agreement which, although some - it is true - want to discredit, it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is that it is true that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is the new fund, with a budget of eur 6 108 million, will contribute to more sustainable fisheries, aquaculture and processing, support a blue economy and coastal communities and promote international ocean governance. we do not lose sight of the fact that the fund has been negotiated in an exceptionally difficult environment, such as the loss of fisheries as a result of brexit, the paralysis of the value chain of sea products due to covid-19, the difficulties in achieving a real generational changeover, the need to offer better conditions to fishing vessels while continuing to fight against overcapacity, the need to simplify bureaucracy in order to access these funds or the obligations arising from the cfp, such as the landing obligation and achieving maximum sustainable yield. the challenge was huge and i honestly think we've done it. the agreed fund helps to address these challenges and to achieve increasingly ambitious objectives. the current bureaucracy is replaced by a simplified system which gives member states the flexibility to programme the needs of their sectors without compromising transparency and accountability. the future fund is therefore easy to use. it is also in compliance with the world trade organization rules. it contains no harmful subsidies, no aid for the construction or acquisition of new fishing vessels, no increase in engine power, no direct subsidies for the increase in fishing capacity of vessels over 24 metres and only for vessels up to 24 and solely for the purpose of improving safety, working conditions or energy efficiency. and, in addition, a 15% financial ceiling for the main fleet measures. it is environmentally friendly and contributes to the achievement of the objectives of the green deal. we agree that tackling biodiversity loss and maintaining ecosystems in good condition will require significant public and private investment at national and european level. the new emff also allows for the financing of investments that improve the energy efficiency, safety and working conditions of eu fishing vessels, while ensuring the sustainability of the sector. it also encourages generational change by supporting the first acquisition of vessels by young fishermen. one of the successes of the european parliament is that the new emff will support in particular small-scale coastal fishing. member states shall take into account in their programme the specific needs of this fishery. the same preferential treatment is granted to fishermen without a boat and to shellfishermen. it will also support european aquaculture by encouraging investment to strengthen the competitiveness of aquaculture production and, in addition, introduce a crisis management plan to provide support in emergency situations such as those experienced with covid-19. i would also like to point out, coming from an outermost region such as the canary islands, that the final text of this agreement takes account of the specific constraints of these regions and that the current budget is maintained for the compensation of additional costs, which may be supplemented by member states with state aid through a simplified procedure. in short, the new fempa will make it possible to fish better, not more. it will not prevent the sector from investing in the safety and well-being of workers and in environmentally efficient engines and vessels, and will allow for generational renewal, while providing all the necessary safeguards to avoid overcapacity and overfishing. member states already have a simplified fund at their disposal and can start setting priorities and planning funding. but above all, we have managed to reach an agreement which obliges us to preserve and promote the delicate balance between environmental, social and economic considerations.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first of all, let me thank the two rapporteurs, mr mato and mr millán mon, as well as, of course, all shadow rapporteurs and the entire fisheries committee (pech) for their good cooperation. although not present today, my thanks also goes to the former german presidency, which was instrumental in securing the final agreement last december. the negotiations on the european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund, the so-called emfaf, were long and intense. they involved three presidencies and they were not always easy. but in the end, the outcome was good and balanced, which reflected our joint determination to reach an agreement and avoid major delays. of course, each of the institutions had to compromise. but as we know, compromise is the essence of democracy. i have always been frank that the text is not perfect. the commission would definitely have preferred a lower financial cap for fleet measures to secure more funding for core priorities such as sustainable fishing, fisheries control, collection of scientific data, innovation or local development. and as several of you said today, we had clearly hoped for a specific binding target or financial ring-fencing for climate objectives or for the protection of biodiversity. but overall, the result was a satisfactory one. i want to explicitly underline the importance of this agreement. first, because in the next decade, with all the challenges it will bring, we will have a new fund to support our fisheries, aquaculture, coastal areas and the blue economy. the post-brexit and covid-19 context has put the resilience of our maritime sectors to the test, and the emfaf will help in finding solutions. second, because the emfaf will deliver on the objectives of the european green deal as regards the protection of marine biodiversity, the full transition to sustainable and low impact fishing and aquaculture, and contribute to our decarbonisation goals. in this context, as the commission committed in the statement that accompanies the agreed text, let me be very clear: we will actively encourage member states to reach the overall ambition in terms of annual spending under the multiannual framework to tackle biodiversity loss. and we will monitor this both during the programming process and during implementation. where this monitoring shows insufficient progress, we will engage with member states to adopt remedial measures, including programme amendments. last but not least, in the end, we have managed to avoid harmful fisheries subsidies. the emfaf now only contains subsidies that contribute positively to the common fisheries policy and to our green deal objectives. this was my commitment during my confirmation hearing before this house in 2019 and i am glad to see that together we managed to achieve this. nothing in the emfaf increases the overall fishing capacity of the fleet, contributes to overfishing or encourages illegal fishing. this would have been totally unacceptable for the commission and for me personally. i therefore welcome the balance we found between investing in the needs of the fleet and including the necessary safeguards to avoid overcapacity and overfishing. i know that some question this interpretation, but i am truly convinced that the eu can negotiate on fisheries subsidies at the world trade organization with clean hands. the agreement you will endorse this week puts us in a very good position to eliminate harmful subsidies worldwide and ensure a global level playing field. this, above all, is in the interests of eu fisheries. the new emfaf will be geared towards the conservation and sustainable use of marine resources in line with our commitment under sustainable development goal 14. it will help us make further progress towards sustainable fisheries. it will promote low impact and low carbon fishing techniques. it will support conservation, management and control measures, underpinned by scientific knowledge. the new emfaf will also contribute to the sector’s economic and social sustainability. in this regard, the emfaf will enable investments and innovation and support the development of the skills of our fishermen and women, as well as their safety, which are key enablers for profitability and resilience. the covid-19 crisis has indeed shown how important it is to increase the resilience of our fishing sector. the emfaf will also support the digital transition of the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. it and artificial intelligence are not only relevant for new emerging sectors but also traditional ones. the emfaf precisely aims to unlock their potential and create new business opportunities in the long term. digital tools will also contribute to modern, efficient and user-friendly fisheries control and traceability systems and are key for ensuring a level playing field for fishers across the eu. i am also satisfied with the results we achieved on small-scale coastal fishing. even if the initial commission proposal of a dedicated action plan was not retained, the national programmes will have to address the specific needs of small-scale vessels and develop adequate actions. and i can only reassure you that the commission will analyse these elements very carefully when assessing the programme prepared by member states. a key novelty in this emfaf, compared with the previous fund, is the strategic approach for the outermost regions. the fund will continue to compensate the additional costs stemming from the specific situation of these regions and, in addition, will put in place the conditions for a profitable and sustainable blue economy. the emfaf will not only contribute to sustainability in the eu, but dedicated funds will also be available to finance eu action on international ocean governance. last but not least, i want to highlight the significant simplification. compared with the previous fund, the new framework will be much less prescriptive on eligibility rules and will focus on results. member states will have more flexibility and with it more responsibility to develop the actions that best respond to their needs. simplification and monitoring go hand-in-hand and, in this respect, i want to thank the european parliament for having defended a robust monitoring and evaluation framework. to conclude, the new emfaf is a key financial tool to ensure that our fisheries and aquaculture sectors will manage the transition towards a green and digital future in line with the objectives of the european green deal. we will now monitor and accompany the implementation of the fund very closely to ensure that its objectives are achieved. and i look forward to its final adoption by the european parliament. thank you very much for your cooperation and for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, the approval of the new emff is of paramount importance for the fisheries and aquaculture sector. especially in a time of pandemic and economic crisis when support is scarce. i cannot, however, fail to deplore the insensitivity and unfairness of the position of both the council and the commission in supporting the purchase of new vessels for the small-scale fishing fleet, which support has been called for and approved by this parliament. it is not about fishing more or increasing the fleet, it is about fishing better and in a sustainable way, with better conditions, including working conditions. only those who are not familiar with the european fleet, its ageing state, particularly in the outermost regions, can think that the only solution is to modernise the existing vessels. it doesn't. if there is no support for purchase, the inevitable and dramatic consequence for some coastal communities will be abandonment of the activity. in portugal, sustainable fishing gear may soon disappear. we regret that this is happening in regions such as madeira and the azores, for whom sustainable art, the art of fishing, is also a form of sustainability and economy.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, i welcome the efforts of all in this long and difficult negotiation, which we have succeeded in bringing to a successful conclusion. the fisheries sector, hard hit by the effects of the pandemic and brexit, urgently needs our support. i consider the result obtained positive. i would stress the financial support for improving safety, working and living conditions on board vessels, and support for young fishermen to acquire a vessel. these are important measures to help the sector achieve much-needed generational renewal. the emff will make an important contribution to the environmental, economic and social sustainability of the blue economy and in particular of fisheries and aquaculture. it is now urgent for the member states to draw up the operational plans and for the funds to reach the ground. we've worked to de-bureaucratize and simplify the fund. the commission will now have to follow suit and ensure that member states make this a reality. this is what european fisheries are waiting for.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, i want to welcome this interinstitutional agreement because it improves the fund we had, makes it a more flexible and simple tool and incorporates lessons learned from the pandemic, climate objectives and new problems, such as those associated with brexit. i regret the 5% cut, but i hope that by increasing the sector's participation, recognising its diversity and getting closer to the needs, while keeping in mind the basic objectives of the cfp, we will put an end to the rigidities and complexity which have so penalized access to the fund which we renew with this regulation. the goal is that with less we're able to do a lot more. this agreement has great achievements. we share the special programmes for the outermost regions, to which i would add the island regions. we agree on the measures taken to promote generational renewal. we welcome the fact that the fleet has finally been decarbonised, with more imagination and openness in the modernisation of engines, and we underline the impetus given to improving living and safety conditions on board ships, which could have been completed by a less restrictive approach to scrapping. we welcome the improvements in measures to support temporary or permanent cessation of activity. to complete them, we demand proximity and imagination for the income diversification programmes of coastal communities in general, and in particular for those most affected by the new restrictions, such as those being imposed on trawling. listening to these professionals, taking advantage of the knowledge they accumulate is adding assets to the value chain of the sector. and this is the message that must be left to the states.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we have been destroying the oceans for many decades, and with this european maritime, fisheries and aquaculture fund, we believe we will continue to do so because, in a time of climate emergency, we should not be aiming for the lowest common denominator. on the contrary: the eu should be listening to science and ensuring real leadership in ocean governance. but this is not the case, and we will continue to destroy what keeps us alive, the oceans. how? by continuing to finance with public money a very profitable, large—scale fisheries sector. and we are obviously not talking about small—scale fisheries, but vessels that are above 24 metres and eligible for public support. on top of that, certain areas of support, like first acquisition, modernisation and replacement of engines, can also be considered as harmful subsidies and will lead, in our analysis, to more overfishing. yes, we recognise the efforts of the commission throughout the negotiations, but unfortunately, once again, the council and most political groups did everything they could to undermine this agreement. as usual, they continue to live in the past and we need policies that protect our future. to conclude, the lack of ambition and concrete commitments concerning climate goals and biodiversity protection dictates that we, the greens, cannot support this final agreement.
in writing. the dominant discourse makes the increase in average life expectancy a burden on society, pitting generations against generations, with the sole purpose of aggravating exploitation and maximizing profit. the increase in life expectancy should be seen as a civilization achievement and a factor of progress. technological advances make it possible to reduce the retirement age and to make active ageing not about working longer but about continuing to participate politically, civically, culturally and in the family in society, enjoying the quality of those years of life. defending decent ageing also means combating precariousness and low wages, ensuring the highest standards of hygiene and safety at work during working life, access to quality and affordable housing, and universal access to quality health care throughout life. decent ageing also means a robust public social security system, as a guarantee of social protection for workers throughout their lives, including in old age, which is free from caps, which is governed by the principle of intergenerational solidarity, which ensures the payment of pensions and dignified retirement pensions and guarantees universal access to all aspects of geriatric care.
the european union's cohesion policy has a major role to play in reducing the significant economic, social and territorial disparities that still persist in the different regions. the slovenian presidency of the council of the eu should continue the good work of the portuguese presidency in this field. the commission's intention to involve the member states in preparing the cohesion policy programme for the coming years is welcome, but it will also be important to involve the different regions, their previous experiences, with particular attention to the specific difficulties of the outermost regions, such as the outermost regions. in full synergy with the other eu mechanisms, notably the implementation of nextgenerationeu, which will fund national recovery and resilience plans, cohesion policy will also make a substantial contribution to achieving a green, digital and sustainable growth transition. we want all regions of the european union to be more resilient, able to manage and respond to future crises, while building a bridge of development that leaves no region behind.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to tell you. completing the transition of the european transport network is a task of civilizational importance that will have a key impact on europe's development in the coming decades. without a modern road, rail and inland waterway system linking all member states, it is impossible to build an effective and efficient common market. the connecting europe facility will play a key role in this process. i hope that these measures will enable the full potential of regions that have not been included in the core network to be exploited. one of these is the kujawsko-pomorskie voivodeship in poland. the city is already ready to become an important transport hub in the baltic-adriatic corridor as part of the ten-t revision. toruń also has all the advantages of an intermodal hub, such as a river port and proximity to key rail and road links, to play an important role in the commission's work. so i recommend these two cities.
the left group. mr president, the connecting europe 2.0 is essentially a revised and updated version of an instrument which continues the european union's longstanding political strategies. the privatisation of public services, transport, energy and communications, the disinvestment in equipment and infrastructure, the degradation and increase in the cost of the service provided to the population and the precariousness of labour relations are the hallmarks of this mechanism. in addition, this mechanism reinforces the financial value of dual mobilisation, i.e. it finances and facilitates the free and rapid movement of troops and military equipment within and outside the european union. we believe that the money allocated to the connecting europe facility should be used to promote cohesion and the development of civil infrastructure and to contribute to the improvement of quality public services for all, enabling countries such as portugal to pursue public policies that serve the needs of the people and the development of the country.
mr president, commissioner, the general system of conditionality for the protection of the budget of the european union is clear: the non-respect of fundamental values, which leads in particular to the exclusion of certain organisations, in particular because of their political, ideological or societal orientation, or to more or less visible fraud, is an inhibitor of access to european funds. we all know how difficult it was to pass these regulations. firstly, the blackmail of those who were most afraid of the agreement on the multiannual financial framework. we did it. we did it. it's to be done, now. and the european parliament is here to enforce it. no need for further interpretation. in particular, new interpretations which may alter the spirit or the letter of the adopted regulation. we therefore ask the commission, and we count on you, mr commissioner, not to get bogged down in procedures that delay its implementation. the regulation is in force. apply without further delay.
madam president, the el chipote prison in managua, where six presidential candidates and hundreds of nicaraguan activists are believed to be held, has removed the signage for visitors from the entrance. this was one of the striking descriptions given to us by berta valle and victoria cárdenas and symbolizes the anguish of those who live close to the unacceptable detentions and human rights violations that are happening in nicaragua. it is a scenario that has been dragging on since 2018, but that has worsened in the last three years with the ortega regime hiding behind the action of paramilitary militias to drive out opponents. in this resolution we demand that the nicaraguan authorities make available information on the health status of imprisoned citizens, release them, amend the electoral law and allow the return to the democratic process and the separation of powers in nicaragua. only then can we see a fair election next november. until that happens, we will tell berta, victoria and so many other relatives of political prisoners that they will not walk alone.
madam president, mr high representative, the severe economic, social and public health crisis that the nicaraguan people are suffering is compounded by a serious human rights crisis. over the past three years, successive violations of the basic rights of citizens have further deteriorated the situation in nicaragua with the violent repression of peaceful demonstrations, the intimidation of journalists, non-governmental organisations, activists and political opponents. a new electoral law designed to prevent citizens from freely participating in the country's political life has resulted in the outlawing of political parties, the imprisonment of five presidential candidates and many other political opponents. what can be said of such a country? we certainly cannot say that it is democratic. we cannot say that it respects any of the most basic human rights. the european union must act, mr high representative, once again. to impose sanctions on those most responsible for these attacks on democracy, these violations of human rights. the people of nicaragua need to know, they know we're on their side.
madam president, the constant panoply of new challenges that foreign interference and disinformation pose to the health of the democracies of the european union forces us to rethink our defence strategy in relation to such threats and our stance in the face of such attacks. these problems cannot be solved by inflammatory statements to moscow or beijing. we need to establish ever more robust mechanisms to defend the integrity of our electoral processes, to strengthen the control of external funding of european political parties and, i stress, to respond with sanctions to attacks on our democracies and our values. the assertiveness with which the union will deal with these phenomena, at a time when the illiberal powers are showing increasing aggressiveness and brazenness in their attacks, will determine our common future. it is up to the european union, the member states, civil society and online platforms, working closely together, to fight this fight.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, enabling the enjoyment of human rights by all people is a strategic objective of the european union. this phrase, uttered by the high representative when adopting the global sanctions regime for human rights violations, demonstrates not only the scale and importance of this foreign policy instrument, which many of us have been calling for for so long, but also our responsibility to ensure that it is applied consistently, transparently and effectively. that is why parliament, in the exercise of its democratic powers, has decided to proceed with the oral question and the resolution we are now discussing. the operationalization of this instrument, the role of parliament and even the type of violations to be covered should be discussed. for the sake of the credibility of this instrument, it is important to make it transparent by making clear the criteria for inclusion and removal from the sanctions list, and to protect its application against double standards which weaken it by serving its detractors. we believe that the role of parliament should be strengthened, including the possibility of proposing and monitoring the application of sanctions. we reiterate that decisions must be taken by qualified majority, i stress, by qualified majority and not by unanimity. mr president, we know what a unanimous decision would lead to: the satisfaction of those who are opposed to the effective application of this mechanism. we believe that corruption should be included in the list of punishable offences and that cooperation with similar sanctioning mechanisms in various countries should be systematised. we have defended and fought for this regime on the grounds that it is essential to equip the european union with the appropriate tools to defend its values consistently in the framework of its foreign policy. i believe that the adoption of the global system of sanctions for human rights violations represents a step of the utmost importance. it is now necessary to continue improving this tool. this is the mission we will continue to fulfill.
mr president, in march this year the united nations high commissioner for human rights warned of the deeply distressing reports of sexual and gender-based violence, extrajudicial killings, widespread destruction and looting in the tigray region of ethiopia. since then, the international community has remained in a distressing paralysis. unfortunately, the human rights violation is not limited to tigray, it extends to the whole country. it is therefore important to demand that the ethiopian authorities put an end to the arbitrary detention and persecution of the tigre, oromo and ogaden people and that all political prisoners be released immediately. the european union should actively support the creation of conditions for a sustainable ceasefire, the only way for international humanitarian aid teams to have urgent and safe access to the territory, and mobilize the necessary aid to populations in severe suffering and severe food insecurity.
madam president, the covid-19 pandemic represents one of the most serious tests schengen has faced to date. 18 of the 26 states have imposed restrictions on the right to move freely within the european area. such measures, while justified on public health grounds, have often been applied in a haphazard, uncoordinated and disproportionate manner at the expense of the free movement of persons and goods. the fragmentation of schengen has become more evident and the need for its reform has become more apparent. the new strategy represents an opportunity to strengthen schengen and the proposed revision of the evaluation and monitoring mechanism could be an important step. but to make these steps effective, we must go further in infringement proceedings and the protection of fundamental rights. assertiveness and courage are required to protect this common good, and for that you can count on us, commissioner.
madam president, much was said here today regarding respect for the rule of law. there can be no doubt: we are seeing time and time again clear breaches of human rights and the rule of law from the hungarian government. these breaches should have led already to full procedures from the institutions, particularly from the council, through article 7, and now also through the conditionality mechanism, madam president of the commission. the external dimension of the eu was also of much importance in this council meeting. the presence of the re—elected secretary—general of the united nations is of the utmost importance, and it’s a good sign of the eu’s commitment to multilateralism and its institutions. that commitment has to be translated into concrete actions, because the multilateral system has suffered a significant erosion over these last few years. we can certainly blame the actions of the former us administration, but we must acknowledge that the world has changed significantly. it has become more multipolar, bringing new risks, new confrontations into the international arena. we need strong multilateral institutions to cope with this reality. however, they need reforms, and the eu must be on the front line, pushing for those reforms. that requires the eu to overcome its internal difficulties that have blocked our own capacity to present ourselves with clear positions. only with a strong voice can the eu be a relevant actor on the world stage. the eu needs to step up on our role in the international arena and the world deserves this.
in writing. i do not want to distract from my speech by elaborating on whether hungary presents us with a recovery and resilience plan in line with european legislation. and i also don't want to go into the reasons why there is an urgent need to unblock the anti-discrimination directive, which i'm sure would apply in this case, or even the suspicion that there might be anti-lgbtiq campaigns being funded in europe. but i want to point out that this is 2021. and we're in the eu. i would like to stress that the attempt to dismantle fundamental rights in a european country is not an imaginary problem. and i also want to stress, warn and assure that we will not stop fighting those who encourage and promote misinformation campaigns and lgbtiq-phobia in order to arm themselves with tools of political censorship. human rights are not "imaginary rights". i will be here, we will be here to ensure that fundamental rights are not negotiated, are not diminished in the eu. they defend themselves.
the commission, in preparing its 2022 work programme, should take into account the positions expressed by parliament, in particular in the committees below. international trade commission: we call on the commission to make progress in the ongoing bilateral negotiations with chile, new zealand, australia, indonesia and others, ensuring that the agreements reflect the latest eu commitments and ambition; to follow up on the joint declaration of the eu-india leaders' meeting last may. we call on the commission to draw up a new overall strategy for the asia-pacific region. we welcome the eu's new agenda on strengthening transatlantic trade relations and the moratorium on the airbus/boeing dispute. we urge the commission to complete the mercosur process if it is not completed this year. committee on budgets: we urge the commission to take all necessary measures to ensure full implementation of the binding roadmap for introducing new own resources during the current mff, including a regular structured dialogue between the institutions in line with the iia. we urge the commission, as guardian of the treaties, to ensure that the rule of law conditionality regulation is applied. committee on economic affairs: we expect the commission to take the necessary legislative initiatives to revise the rules of economic governance.
the implementation of the digital covid certificate is a decisive step in the normalisation of life for europeans. it is possible to begin the recovery of sectors crucial to the european economy and to restore the confidence of citizens. while it is true that this alone does not solve the uncertainty in which europe and the world remain mired, it gives us all hope that it is possible to restore faith in european progress and, therefore, in world progress by activating the much-needed mechanisms to accelerate vaccination worldwide. it is therefore important that all signatory countries implement it swiftly and without hesitation. only in this way, at one speed, can we build the european project we believe in.
madam president, commissioner, today the european parliament is taking another step towards making a real european health union a reality. i have to thank the rapporteur, nicolás, and the whole team for having a strong and resilient mandate for the european medicines agency and for giving the response that the european union needs. with the list of critical medicines and medical devices established, we will be better prepared for future health crises. the new european database on the supply of medicines will improve access to medicines and avoid disruptions in supply and distribution chains that jeopardise the health of our citizens. finally, i would like to stress the importance of a strong focus on clinical trials, which will provide more appropriate answers to the real health needs of european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, moments of difficulty, or unexpected shock, in a pandemic are also often times of learning. with these difficult times and the virus, we all learned. scientists have learned, health professionals have learned, and we politicians have learned. in all sectors there was certainly a learning of great importance. while the pandemic is not over, we need to adjust our procedures, our activities and our organizations, based on learning from what we didn't know before and know now. we have learned that the union must be more effective in managing supply chains and stocks of medicines and medical devices. we learned that we need a better defined legal framework to manage the response to these types of scenarios. we have learned that we need a greater degree of preparedness of the union in the event of a public health emergency. we've learned that we have to improve information management. data collection and management is seen as central to the response to a pandemic. a stronger european medicines agency will help in this preparation, helping to prevent shortages of medicines and critical medical devices, and allowing us to be faster in approving but also developing medicines. only then will we be preparing europe for future threats.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no success without good strategy and good execution. both are decisive for achieving the objectives. the european green deal is a very good and very comprehensive strategy, but it needs equally good operational and implementation instruments if we are to achieve our objectives. one of these instruments is what we are discussing here today: the union's 2030 agenda for the environment. the objectives are ambitious but achievable. contrary to what extremists such as reactionary denialists or environmental terrorists want, the programme makes it possible to reconcile growth with respect for the environment, working to decouple economic growth from resource use and introducing the concept of a sustainable welfare economy. it will also be an instrument for the protection of biodiversity, the zero pollution ambition and, of course, climate neutrality. it will also provide the environmental climate data on the european union's overall efforts needed to assess progress and enable policy-makers and all europeans to know whether the union and its member states are on track to achieve the promised results. a good idea is useless if it is poorly executed in practice. this programme is of the utmost importance as the concrete expression of our environmental and climate ambitions.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, investment in research and development in the european union has increased by 1.3% per year since 2010. however, we still lack €110 billion to reach 3% of gdp in all member states. we need more ambition from the commission, we need it to speed up the submission of proposals to give dignity to the careers of researchers, who are not always rewarded for the work they do, and we cannot let that work slip away outside the union, outside the member states. we need to invest more in science and allow the creation of truly borderless ecosystems. the renewed european research area is a project that will take steps in this direction and aims, among other things, to foster networking among researchers, coordinate scientific priorities and encourage more joint projects. science is one of the areas where the european union is a global leader. let's make sure he doesn't lose that position.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the antarctic. they are, because their many and unique ecosystems are under pressure from climate change, pollution, overfishing, ocean acidification and harmful tourism. and why are we letting this happen? the time is ripe for action to provide this area with the protection it so badly needs. how can we prevent further decline in antarctica and give biodiversity a chance to recover? the only way to do this is to protect its new and existing natural areas. that means that there is absolutely no place for fishing, for whaling, for deep-sea mining, for oil and gas extraction, and certainly not for large cruise ships and uncontrolled tourism. penguins, sea lions and orcas must be allowed to live undisturbed and protected areas must be ecologically linked with clear conservation plans to save these unique ecosystems. only by strictly protecting the antarctic can we ensure the health of our oceans, their function as a carbon sink, and increase the resilience of these marine ecosystems to the effects of climate change. i also believe that european agricultural and fisheries subsidies should be abolished.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in the spring, we could see on the terrible satellite images a block of ice bigger than gotland breaking away from antarctica. global warming is accelerating at the poles. in just 30 years, antarctica has warmed by 1.8 degrees. antarctica, the last uninhabited continent, is home to an enormous variety of biodiversity and a host of red-listed species. in the antarctic seas, for example, endangered krill are at the base of our ecosystems. the ocean is not just a superb carbon sink that absorbs 90 percent of the temperature increase from global warming. the ocean is also critical to ocean currents, and we know that melting ice affects both the temperature and salinity of the ocean. as the ice melts faster, it can change the climate very quickly all the way to sweden. it is therefore obvious that the european parliament is now joining the united states, the united kingdom and australia and others in taking a stand on new marine protected areas outside antarctica. that's almost one percent of the world's oceans, six times the size of sweden, and it would be one of the largest conservation efforts in history to succeed. protecting these ecosystems is not only good for wildlife and ocean currents, it's also absolutely central to science. as antarctica is both better protected, for example, from overfishing, and ahead of the rest of the world in the climate crisis, scientists can gain access to study the effects of global warming. and more research is needed. eighty percent of the ocean floor is still unexplored. it is time for the eu to play its leading role and to take action internationally to protect more of antarctica's marine areas. no more burning seas and broken ice blocks.
madam president, i begin this speech with the appeal of the portuguese environmentalist and diver, miguel lacerda. antarctica is a sanctuary of biodiversity and it must be protected. and it is at the next meeting of the commission for the conservation of antarctic marine fauna and flora that the world has an opportunity to take a decisive step to protect antarctica and the southern ocean. why would you do that? because these are ecosystems that are extremely rich in wildlife and are also key areas for mitigating the impacts of climate change. the european union and its member states should therefore put pressure on countries such as russia and china to accept the creation of the largest marine protected area on the planet. scientific diplomacy must serve the common interest and not yield to the nationalist and narrow-minded interests which are behind this agreement. it is time to act and we are all counting on you, commissioner sinkevičius.
the debate on economic governance is a difficult and tending to create divisions, but it requires consensus to be successful. to start this debate with definite positions at the outset would have left us with no room for manoeuvre and would have condemned this debate to failure. it took us a while to get here. it has forced us to make a huge responsible effort to find common solutions for almost a year. we hear from experts, politicians, european and international organisations from different fields of academic political thought. this internal debate has allowed us to build up a broad understanding of the challenges of economic governance in the union, but also to understand the positions that emerge, from the most consensual to the most minority. so i leave you with a huge thank you to the shadow rapporteurs. we argued over different positions. we have always sought to find the best solutions that would allow for a framework of economic governance that is functional and credible, based on sound economic foundations and with a vision for the future. that is what the citizens expect of us. i also thank the teams from the various political families and the commission secretariat and the colleagues from afco for their excellent cooperation. we recommend that the european commission reopen the public debate which was suspended with the necessary activation of the escape clause. we look forward to following up the necessary legislative initiatives. with this own-initiative report, parliament is today establishing a position which sets the political framework for this debate. with the political guidelines we have defined, the commission is in a position to adopt ambitious, realistic and consensus-based proposals. we have proved that this strategy has strengthened the power of parliament. we have already done so with the european response to the crisis. we did so with the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework, where parliament's unity was decisive. the rules today are complex and opaque. they have proven ineffective and are not enforced. successive changes and interpretations have made them even more incomprehensible. the pandemic has made that even more visible. we must have the necessary mechanisms so that the union can face the challenges facing europe today and in the future. that's what this report does. the european response to the crisis is looking to protect the most vulnerable, jobs, businesses in strategic sectors and aims to relaunch a greener, more digital, more equitable economy. but the impact of the crisis on economies is clearly visible with growing inequalities and uncertainty remaining. the confidence of the citizens has increased and we cannot let them down. for now, the escape clause is in place until the end of 2022. it gives us a one-year window of opportunity to politically position ourselves on the new rules of economic governance. we'll have new rules in place by the time we deactivate. one thing is certain, the guidelines of the new rules must be defined to give member states predictability and member states must have full capacity to fully use the european response to the crisis. of course, the next generation eu. we know that it was created as a unique instrument, but we cannot ignore its european added value. the commission must exploit the full potential of all the instruments created in the european response to the crisis. on the other hand, it must make full use of the flexibility of the current framework by ensuring country-specific adjustments. a premature withdrawal of monetary and fiscal policy support would block recovery, and this neither governments, nor social partners, nor citizens would understand. it would feed those who fight the european union and european democracies. we need to review the stability and growth pact, anchored in the long-term objectives of the european union, based on a resilient institutional framework with a new understanding of debt sustainability. this requires a more dynamic notion of debt, ensuring country-specific reduction trajectories. instead of focusing solely on debt ratios, which have often been a drag on growth, we need to focus on ensuring the sustainability of sovereign debt and sustainable and inclusive growth in line with european commitments. the stability and growth pact cannot be a brake on investment and job creation, on growth. quality investment translates into quality public finances and quality public finances improve the long-term sustainability of debt and improve the potential growth of economies. a deep reflection on how and by whom decisions are made is necessary. parliament has a greater capacity to define economic policy guidelines. the european semester has evolved over the years, but no economic policy survives if it does not reflect the commitments of the european green deal, the sdgs and the social pillar. it is now up to the european commission to be ambitious and realistic. it is up to the council to break up its little clubs and build a spirit of mutual trust. it is up to all of us to ensure that the review of the macroeconomic legislative framework makes it simpler, more transparent, more democratic and with greater ownership by member states, based on a community approach that promotes sustainable and inclusive economic growth. instead of having a perfect budgetary framework in theory we have to build a budgetary policy that works in practice.
madam president, europe is on the right track. today's economic forecasts are encouraging, but the reality still differs greatly from country to country. while some member states grow above 7%, others, such as portugal, fall short of the european average. national governments must play their part. we do not need propaganda about bazookas, european money, but concrete initiatives to improve public investment, boost private investment and create more jobs. the general derogation clause of the stability and growth pact is an important flexibility mechanism. we have another year and a half to make the most of these conditions. but we cannot stop here, we must seize this opportunity to reform economic governance. first, the public debt. we need a mechanism based on controlling public expenditure in the light of the specific situation in each country. the vaccine for the debt virus is responsible fiscal policy, with smart spending and below growth levels. secondly, the budget deficit. we need clear and transparent criteria for deficit control. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thirdly, fiscal policy. taxation is a matter for the member states, but tax fraud and evasion or money laundering are phenomena that know no borders. we need more cooperation and coordination to improve our tax systems and free europeans from tax burdens that threaten the competitiveness of our economies. ladies and gentlemen, we didn't have much time to respond to the health emergency, but we did. we don't have much time to get our economies back on track, but let's do it.
madam president, commissioner, i would first like to join the many who have congratulated the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs who have indeed done a good job. the european budgetary rules, which are suspended because of this crisis, are now old rules, outdated rules. once the crisis is over, we cannot go back to the past, to a rate of debt reduction which would condemn us to 20 years of stagnation in europe. on the contrary, we need permanent european budgetary capacity and countercyclical budgetary rules and room for green and social investment for growth and jobs. we need a pace of debt reduction adjusted to the new covid debt, which is not the fault of any single spending state, but rather the result of the common response to the crisis of the century, and we need a golden rule for investment in europe. monetary policy has acted well in this crisis, but the way out of the crisis must now be driven by a responsible fiscal policy, which is favourable to growth and employment.
mr president, freedom of expression and a free and independent press are the pillars of any democratic society. the closure of apple daily represents yet another step in hong kong's slide down the path of censorship, repression and disregard for international conventions and the basic law. in hong kong and other regions of china, such as xinjiang and tibet, and even macau, national security law is used to persecute, arrest and repress so many who do not blindly obey the orders of the central authorities or try to defend their basic rights and freedoms. and here we cannot forget the case of macao and the case of tdm and the conditions imposed on journalists when the basic law agreed with portugal will be in force until 2049 and in it freedom of the press is enshrined. these persecutions of free media are yet another attempt to cover up and silence all critical voices. beijing does not tolerate frivolity and it is necessary to give clear signals and sanction those involved in these human rights violations.
mr. president, death to death, war to war, hate to hate. freedom is a vast city of which we are all fellow citizens. i quote the words of victor hugo in a text in which he welcomed the abolition of the death penalty in portugal 154 years ago to highlight how anachronistic, cruel, degrading and inhuman the persistence of the death penalty in the 21st century is. a disgrace to humanity. in condemning the execution of mustafa hashem al-darwish and the death of abdullah al-howaiti at the hands of the saudi authorities, we are not only condemning the death penalty in saudi arabia and other countries, but are also working for its universal abolition. the european union is calling for a ban on arms supplies to saudi arabia and for a more assertive and consistent diplomatic approach by the european union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, directive 2010/63/eu on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes is among the strictest legislation in the world, but this piece of legislation does not provide a clear strategy for transitioning to innovation without the use of animals. and as a consequence, every year nearly 10 million animals suffer in eu laboratories, with very limited research results. indeed, there is a high failure rate – above 90% of new drugs tested on animals – and also a growing number of scientific reviews indicating that they contribute very little in understanding human diseases. non-animal methods are game-changing technologies... (... inaudible ...)... better coordinated, cross-sectoral and eu-wide approach, across all member states and all european agencies. based on these elements i have some questions for the commission: does the commission agree that after 10 years of no progress, we need a plan to accelerate the transition to animal-free methods? that it could work more with the member states to promote the key competences and knowledge required to use non-animal methods? that it could create mechanisms for preferential funding of non-animal methods? that it could set reduction targets through a more proactive implementation of existing regulations that deal with the safety of chemicals and other products. and lastly, there is a plan to develop the european research area and to set up priority areas where member states should collaborate. so does the commissioner agree that the phasing-out of the use of animals should be one of these priority areas?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! i thank the commissioner very much for the proposals she has put forward. i know you are a thoughtful person and you also have a thoughtful and reasonable approach to the subject of animal welfare. ladies and gentlemen! the number of animals used in science and research, despite the commission's commitment 30 years ago, has unfortunately fallen slightly, so it is certainly time for a change. studies show that some 12 million animals that are raised for scientific purposes are eventually killed for no purpose. there's a way to get these animals to work. although directive 2010/63/eu lays down basic rules for the protection of animals used in research, it does not provide for a strategy for the replacement of animals by alternative forms. so there is a need to prepare actions to facilitate the transition to technological innovation, the transformation to better animal welfare. health and environmental challenges, biodiversity and climate protection require us to step up our efforts, investing first and foremost in science, regulatory research and education. and this growing social sensitivity, which we are talking about here, the transparency of the eu institutions, transparency should put more emphasis on these issues.
on behalf of the left-fraktion. - mr president, undercover footage from the german lpt laboratory and the spanish vivotecnia shows that dogs, cats, rodents and monkeys are being cruelly abused, that they are being subjected to painful experiments without being sedated, that they are being kicked and beaten and left to their fate. how come this doesn't come out until after whistle-blowers have rung the bell? and why does the commission still use the data collected by these laboratories for the decisions it takes - for example, for the authorization of the agricultural pesticide glyphosate - when the scientific value of this data is very, very low? the aim of the directive, which is to protect animals used for scientific research, is clear. all animal experiments must be replaced by methods without animals. and yet the number of experiments on animals is only slowly decreasing. in fact, animal testing is on the increase in many european countries. worldwide, there are already great developments, innovative and affordable cell and tissue cultures and computer simulations. our own joint research centre and cevma have also validated impressive alternatives, but they are far too little used. what will you do, commissioner, to promote these alternatives and to make a full commitment to the development of new technologies? since 1993, the goal in the european union has been to reduce animal testing. the end of animal testing is in the interests of both animals and humans. after 30 years, you're finally gonna take care of this?
mr president, animal welfare can often be overlooked, but i am pleased to say that this is not the case in the european parliament. last month, we passed a resolution calling for a ban on the use of cages in animal agriculture by 2027. this was in response to ‘end the cage age’, a european citizens’ initiative. some 1.4 million citizens signed it and we responded in kind. for nearly 30 years, the eu has been committed to reducing the use of and improving the welfare of animals in science. since 2009, the marketing of any cosmetic products containing animal-tested ingredients have been banned in the eu. considering that europe’s cosmetic products market is the biggest in the world, it’s clear that this was a significant step in the promotion of animal welfare. the 2010 eu directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes promotes the three rs: (1) replacing animal experiments wherever possible; (2) reducing the number of animals used and (3) refining experiments to minimise the impact on animals. this directive also notes that the final goal is full replacement for procedures on live animals for scientific and educational purposes as soon as it is scientifically possible to do so. while the progress made on the three rs is most welcome, unfortunately, we are not yet close to reaching the final goal and the number of animals being used in research, regulatory testing and education remains high. thankfully, new developments have been made, the advancement in animal models and these are very relevant because they are human-relevant and therefore present an opportunity for more accurate data. a comprehensive approach will accelerate the transition away from animal testing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when the european union sets itself a goal, it usually sets out a strategy, sets medium- and long-term targets and allocates funds. yet, despite europe's commitment to end the use of animals in research and experimentation, nothing has been done so far. on the contrary, years later, some 10 million animals are still used in scientific research in europe each year and the european funding for animal-free methods is a drop in the ocean compared to that for traditional methods. but it's not just an ethical issue. and in doing so, we're actually putting a brake on the potential of innovative, human-based approaches that have already been shown to lead to real advances in understanding and treating diseases, i think of cancer and alzheimer's, where traditional approaches have failed. i therefore ask the commission to present as soon as possible an action plan with clear targets and timetables, concrete and measurable commitments and dedicated and adequate funding to finally achieve the objective of animal free science.
mr president, commissioner, the eu has made a clear commitment to proactively reduce and replace animals in science since 1993. however, we are now in 2021, 20 years later, and despite almost three decades long, the number of animals used has decreased very, very slowly. so why doesn’t the eu have relevant policy initiatives on the line to reduce, replace and actively phase out animal testing? why don’t we have an action plan setting out a proactive strategy to phase out animal experiments with milestones and timetables? is the commission just expecting member states by their own initiative to invest in the phasing-out of animal testing? since when has this reality really worked in eu policy? we know that without binding targets, there are no real incentives to progress. and commissioner, what happens in laboratories cannot just stay in laboratories. we must end animal experimentation now.
member of the commission. – mr president, as i have said from the beginning, the message my colleagues wanted to bring to you today is that we are strongly committed to animal welfare, while mindful of our responsibility to ensure the protection of health and the environment. the commission chose for the regulation a stepwise approach to this directive with the ultimate goal of replacing all animals in science. the directive ensures that other eu initiatives, such as for research programmes, are aligned with the aims established by the directive, and this horizontal approach makes additional strategy documents and actions redundant. for example, we are gathering right now more details on how the specific sectors plan to reduce their dependence on the use of animals. these sectors are human and veterinary medicines, medical devices, food and feed safety, biocides, pesticides, chemicals and possibly others. they are covered by dgs sante, environment and grow. in accordance with the directive, i will give you a couple of examples of how some of the abovementioned sectors are working on replacing or reducing animal tests. concerning veterinary medicines, we have a regulation from 2019, which becomes applicable on 28 january 2022. it calls for assessing the feasibility of an active, substance—based review system for the environmental risk assessment of veterinary medicinal products. in fact a system could involve applicants joining efforts to generate the required data, thereby reducing necessary testing on vertebrates. we have an ongoing feasibility study and we are going to submit a report to the european parliament and the council by the date of the application of this regulation. regarding animal feed additives, the preparatory work for the revision of the regulation on additives for use in animal nutrition, includes the objective of reducing animal testing by imposing mandatory data sharing between applicants for feed additives authorisation as regards the toxological tests on vertebrate animals. this would prevent duplication of tests in view of the authorisation process. in the domain of food safety, specifically marine biotoxin testing, the commission has proposed to discontinue most bioassays. the proposal received the support of the member states at the end of 2020 and will be published in mid—august this year. in addition, we have other initiatives, like the chemical strategy for sustainability, which will include a strong commitment to promote alternative methods and the use of digital technologies and advanced methods to move away from unnecessary animal testing in both the eu and beyond. as i said, my colleagues are very committed to this subject. we believe that this directive will ensure the gradual replacement of animals in testing and science and, where replacement is not yet possible, the legislation ensures that fewer animals are used over time and that the procedures they undergo are constantly being refined to lessen the effects on their well—being. we look forward to the continued and close cooperation with the parliament on such a sensitive and important matter.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession in september. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. there are no longer any human safety concerns with the use of animal testing. they should be phased out preferably as soon as possible. the last time we called for a global end to animal testing was in 2018, and i have sent a number of questions to the commission on this subject. animal tests are not reliable and do not guarantee the safety of products or the efficacy of medicines in humans. alternative methods, such as stem cell platforms, provide more reliable information on human effects and, moreover, lower cost animal testing. they already cover almost all the testing needs. the development, acceptance and use of alternative research methods must be actively promoted and the use of existing alternative methods must be switched to. the european chemicals agency (echa) has a backward interpretation of the animal testing requirements and the use of alternative methods has not been sufficiently developed.
the next item is the joint debate on the oral question to the commission on decent working and employment conditions in the aviation sector by lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, dennis radtke, alicia homs ginel, sylvie brunet, france jamet, mounir satouri and sandra pereira, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000049/2021 - b9-0030/21) (2021/2607 ((rsp)) and the oral question to the commission on the impact of the covid-19 pandemic on aviation by karima delli, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism (ors330000/2021 b92700/21) (2021/26 ((rsp)).
author. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the european parliament's committee on transport and tourism, we wanted to have this debate with you, commissioner, at the dawn of the summer season, which is the most important for the aviation sector. the pandemic has caused air traffic to fall by more than two thirds compared to 2019 and has had a devastating economic impact on the airline industry, as well as on employment and working conditions. the commission has presented emergency measures to reduce the threshold for the use of slots and thus avoid the so-called 'ghost thefts', an ecological aberration that we all have here in this house, denounced, and the digital green certificate to harmonise health measures across europe. but we see it today with the resurgence of variants and the slow pace of vaccination in some countries: we are still swimming in uncertainty. we need more action to ensure a recovery of the sector that is socially responsible, sustainable and in line with the eu's climate objectives. we want to know, commissioner, what the commission intends to do to support the recovery of this aviation sector. in addition to the european green certificate, does it intend to improve the coordination of restrictions and health criteria between the member states? how does it intend to ensure good and fair conditions of competition while safeguarding employment and workers' rights? i would also like to remind you, madam commissioner, that during your first hearing before our committee, the transport committee of parliament, several of my colleagues had already mentioned the absence of social measures at european level and the need to deal in particular with the issue of the so-called self-employed, because we cannot allow companies to put their employees in precarious jobs by outsourcing the basic functions of their services, for example pilots. i regret that, almost halfway through its mandate, the commission has not yet made any proposals on this front. finally, does the commission intend to address genuine economic, social and community aspects of aviation in eu law, including the revision of regulation (ec) no 1008/2008, while ensuring better collaboration between european and national authorities? now i'm going to change my hat a little bit and i'm going to speak as a group. i am an environmentalist and i would like to return to the question of the conditionality of aid to the aviation sector. aviation is one of those sectors which has benefited from a large amount of public aid. there is talk of €30 billion of public aid in europe for this sector, but without any climate or social counterpart. i believe, madam commissioner, that under the green deal, we can no longer write a blank cheque with taxpayers' money without demanding anything in return. all companies today have an interest in entering the ecological transition. this is a way of ensuring that this sector is quickly included in the successful ecological transition. finally, i would ask you one last time, madam commissioner, to take real action to combat social dumping which, in addition to the existing environmental and climate externalities, gives a sometimes unfair competitive advantage over other modes of transport such as rail, at a time when we are in the european year of the train. i hope, therefore, that i can count on your support, madam commissioner, to set up the first lines of thinking, for example on a kerosene tax or the end of the free allowances for polluting rights which aviation currently enjoys in the eu's emissions trading system. we will not have exactly the same philosophical views according to the political groups, but we have the same objective: that no one remains on the edge of the road, that no one is responsible for not entering the ecological transition and at the same time triggering a new social crisis in this sector. we have an extraordinary window of opportunity to support this sector. i think it's time now, commissioner. we can't miss the train because then we'll regret it and we'll have nothing but our eyes to cry about.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the covid-19 pandemic has been a major shock for the aviation industry. demand for air travel, in particular for passengers, collapsed in a matter of weeks and the recovery has been slow and fluctuating until recently. the aviation sector is not expected to fully recover before 2024-2026. on the short-term air traffic recovery, the commission is giving its priority to the best use of airport capacity and traffic increase. as you are aware, the slot regulation has been amended to decrease the slot usage threshold. the commission is currently working on a delegated act to extend the slot relief rules for the winter 2021-2022 scheduling season. the commission has also proposed a number of measures aiming at facilitating free movement in the eu, including the introduction of the new digital covid certificate. on 28 june this year, the services issued guidance for member states to facilitate a smooth rollout of the eu digital covid certificate and to harmonise the different national regimes, notably in aviation. in addition, the state aid temporary framework, adopted in march last year, enables member states to give support also to the aviation sector. we have extended the temporary framework to enable member states to use the full flexibility foreseen under the state aid rules to support the economy, including the aviation sector, until the end of this year. member states can also compensate undertakings for damages suffered directly as a result of government restrictions put in place to contain the spread of covd-19, based on article 107 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in addition, member states may also provide rescue or restructuring support to specific airlines or airports, just as they do with other sectors impacted by the crisis. furthermore, additional financial support to the sector, including the support of the employees, can be provided from the recovery assistance for cohesion and territories of europe, the european social fund plus, or from the european globalisation adjustment fund for displaced workers. to give you an example, the latter has already supported 1 200 displaced workers from the aviation sector in the netherlands, 500 displaced workers from the aviation sector in finland, and 1 500 displaced workers in ground handling in belgium. as you know, this the commission is determined to deliver a strong eu special agenda in air transport. airline practices which constitute abuse of circumvention of applicable law, have no place in the eu’s single market for aviation. the commission made its position very clear already in the report from march 2019, called aviation strategy for europe: maintaining and promoting high social standards for air crews, the so-called social report. the conclusions of this report remain valid. substantial eu and national legislation already protects air crews. however, effective enforcement of these rules, which would avoid abusive practices and ensure a level playing field, depends primarily on the member states. to support member states in appropriately enforcing rules, the commission established an expert group working on social matters related to the air crews. the expert group has already yielded concrete and important results by delivering three papers. two of these are published and available in the commission’s expert group registry website, and the third one will soon be made available as well. it was a reference to that. in the sustainable and smart mobility strategy adopted in december last year, we have reaffirmed the strong commitment towards promoting high social standards in the aviation sector. the strategy stipulates that we will propose a revision of the air service regulation in 2021-2022. within this revision, the commission may propose legislative measures to further clarify or strengthen the effective enforcement by the member states of relevant national labour law rules in relation to air crews, for instance defining the notion of ‘operational base’, as called for by the expert group on social matters related to air crews. the aim of the proposal will be to support the functioning of the market, not only in normal times but also during sudden and unexpected shocks. so we are committed to deliver a proposal as soon as possible and in line with the commission’s better regulation standards. but before we present a proposal, it is therefore crucial to assess the structural impacts of the covid-19 crisis on the sector and how we can help support the recovery and resilience of aviation in the medium and long term. for that purpose, the commission services will shortly launch a study to that effect. it will be based on a wide sectoral consultation. and in addition, and in light of the eu’s sustainable, smart mobility strategy, we also need to assess how we can further promote social responsibility as well as environmental sustainability. suboptimal rules may result in loss of connectivity, competitiveness in the global aviation market and jobs. so, as i said, we also need to assess how we can further promote social responsibility as well as environmental sustainability while avoiding suboptimal rules.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, the aviation sector has a significant weight in the european union labour market. in portugal, my country, it is one of the countries with the most jobs in this sector, accounting for 0.4% of national employment. concentrating all aid on a single sectoral agent, in the specific case of flag carriers only, is not only wrong but unfair. we cannot forget the handling, maintenance, catering and many other companies, including the smaller airlines. these are essential for territorial cohesion and without which it is impossible to provide a quality service. the european globalisation adjustment fund has been an instrument found by some member states to ensure the training and retraining of the aviation workforce in many and diverse areas. because we are going through an unprecedented crisis in a sector of enormous competition with state aid to the main flag companies, we run the serious risk of adjustment being made at the expense of the weakest link in the whole chain, the workers, so it is urgent to find adequate protection mechanisms, avoiding the degradation of working conditions, of course, and in particular safety issues and we do not want to include the decline in wages. the different labour laws in different countries further distort the air transport market which is itself distorted in some situations. the restructuring of the companies which make up this aviation sector and which are undergoing profound transformation requires a coherent approach, the question of redundancies. it is up to those who have the power to legislate, who have the power to legislate, to ensure that those who are unemployed are supported and also to enforce legislation on labour rights. i therefore ask the commission in conclusion: is the commission in a position to ensure that the working conditions of the companies which have been the object of state intervention are respected? and in the face of the restructuring processes outlined by the member states and approved by the commission, can they guarantee the support and integration of workers into the labour market?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. the aviation industry has been hit by an unprecedented crisis, in just a few weeks one of the most important sectors of our economy has virtually ceased to function. there is no doubt that the dramatic effects of the collapse of the last few months will be felt by the airlines and their employees for a very long time, as the commissioner has said. the commission considers that the measures in question are imputable to the state and that they constitute state aid. it is also worth noting the attitude of the airlines themselves, which have tried to make it as easy as possible for passengers to change their reservations and have introduced sanitary security measures on board their aircraft very quickly. putting additional pressure on the aviation industry in the form of new emissions regulations or social rights is the worst possible choice at this difficult time. competition from third countries will certainly take advantage of the increasing cost pressures and additional burdens imposed on our carriers. we cannot give up investing in modern air infrastructure, such as the central communications port operated by the polish government. modern and well-connected airports will certainly help to rebuild passenger confidence and also contribute to the elimination of short-haul connections.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the mobility restrictions imposed by the covid-19 containment measures have paralysed around 2/3 of global traffic leading the sector to the biggest crisis ever with support needed to safeguard jobs, workers' incomes and the viability of businesses. it is true that much of this support came from the european institutions, but it was differentiated and discriminatory, putting the sustainability of several flag companies at risk. the main victims are the workers, who face redundancies, loss of wages, precariousness and exploitation. an unacceptable situation that did not start with covid-19, which only aggravated and exposed the logic of deregulation, liberalization, decentralization and increased exploitation and precariousness that has occurred in recent decades as a result of the policies of the european union for the sector. finally, a word of solidarity with the tap workers who are facing reductions in benefits and redundancies. the number of layoffs continues to rise and today it was reported that over 100 workers will be laid off. some of those responsible are here right before our eyes. the fight continues.
mr president, commissioner, president-in-office of the council, today the european parliament is taking another step towards protecting the health of europeans. covid-19 has taught us many things, and the main one is that microbes know no borders between countries. coordinated work within and outside the european union between member states and international agencies such as the world health organisation is therefore urgently needed. this report is also another step towards reducing social inequalities and ensuring the equitable distribution of medicines, vaccines, medical devices and protective equipment during health crises. this pandemic has also been a real stress test for our health systems. what we want with this legislation is for these tests to be done in a controlled way so that we can identify the flaws and correct them in time. the key to being prepared for future threats also lies in training health and social services professionals and in strengthening the health literacy of citizens, for citizens, so that they can better understand the directions of health authorities. we also need robust information systems, from data collection to data analysis and interpretation, taking full advantage of the new digital age to reduce the administrative burden and duplication of resources in what is a very time-consuming process. the enhancement of the ecdc, its competence and its capacity for rapid risk analysis will result in a greater capacity to mitigate the consequences of future health crises. i want to conclude by reminding you that health is not limited to health systems. health impacts all sectors of our society and requires coordinated work among all to promote health, prevent disease and prepare for crises. this is achieved only by a genuine health approach in all policies and in one health.
mr. chairman, colleagues, commissioner, a bicycle courier is on his way to your house with a pizza, but he has an accident and no insurance. an uber driver is fired on the spot for not being online for a while and is not entitled to benefits. platform workers today have little protection, because they are so-called self-employed. but, colleagues, nothing could be further from the truth. however, all workers in the european union are entitled to equal employment rights and to protection of safety and health at work. at least in theory. our couriers and our caterers are not self-employed. they work for big multinationals. this unequal treatment cannot be justified. i call on the commission to support parliament's position and finally to work towards that equal protection. the updating of the rules on health and safety at work is a unique opportunity to do so. colleagues, we are talking about 24 million people who sometimes go through the motions for their jobs and who deserve protection today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate. so let's work together to make it happen.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. innovative solutions are needed and consumers are also keen to use applications to order services. platform workers also have the right to healthy and safe working conditions, social care, further training and fair and transparent wages. however, they are often self-employed, and care must be taken not to force them to do so, but at the same time the choices of those who wish to work in this way must be respected. and let's not forget that during the covid pandemic, this form of employment has saved many lives, and it's provided many people with income. finally, the interests of smes should be better taken into account, as they are the backbone of the european economy, representing 99% of all eu enterprises. i therefore find it regrettable that the report mentions smes in only two places.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. in recent years, there has been a lot of talk about the fundamental changes in the world of work that have taken place simply and profoundly through digitization and the platform economy. this week, however, we have the opportunity not only to talk about these important changes but also to set a real exclamation point and to make clear to the commission what we expect. in the last few weeks and months, when we were working on your report, dear sylvie, we found some good compromises in the middle of this house which, in my view, if the commission is prepared to include them in its proposal, could be a real game changer, because on the one hand they mean that we are not able to control the dynamics in the platform economy, that the highly qualified people who are self-employed and want to remain self-employed are left out, so to speak, while on the other hand we are now finally, finally providing legal means for all those who have been pushed into virtual self-employment to be given the status and protection they deserve. because what we see in many areas has nothing to do with entrepreneurship. so where an algorithm, so to speak, determines the daily work of people, one cannot speak of true self-employment and true entrepreneurship, but here it is simply and profoundly about passing on entrepreneurial risk to others. and we cannot and will not tolerate such models. and also, we want to have more transparency with the employees about the algorithm. what we have presented here is a real steeple for you, dear nicolas, and that is why i am not only asking for approval, but also really asking for a clear signal. the commission does not accept narrow majorities, but only clear majorities.
madam president, on 6 may a deliveryman lost his life on a bicycle in normandy. after a rainy and cold day, he was delivering a meal under pressure, fatigued and overworked. unfortunately, this drama is not the first, but hopefully it is the last. platform workers have become a rapidly growing part of the transport sector and this is precarious self-employment, especially in driving and delivery services. algorithmic management so often used by platforms can put excessive pressure on workers, with implications for road safety. the covid-19 pandemic clearly shows a lack of social protection for these workers. many of them lost their source of income from one day to another, but could often not access the income measures, neither for employers nor for self-employed. platform workers should enjoy equal access to decent working conditions, including a fair income, social security and protection for unemployment and sickness. work tasks should be predictable and transparent, and algorithms must always have human oversight. those working in the driving and delivery services need adequate protective equipment and accident insurance. we need to ensure that all workers are treated equally in the eu. with this report, the european parliament sends a strong signal in favour of platform workers’ rights. it’s now up to the commission to deliver a progressive legislative proposal.
madam president, only france can decide to amend its own labour code. here's a statement that may not be true tomorrow. this is confirmed by the report on the workers on the platforms. the appalling working conditions and the precariousness of the bicycle delivery men who ride the streets of our cities are all the more indicative of the fact that unbridled globalisation is creating a veritable economic jungle which we must combat. the european union, which is suffering from the syndrome of the savior, is now running to their aid. it was a waste. as always, the brussels bureaucracy, whose slowness in action is no longer to be demonstrated, is outdated: spain, france, but above all switzerland and the united kingdom, outside the union, are already taking action to remedy the problems of false selfemployed. our nations do this by passing laws or by allowing the courts to act sovereignly. the requalification of contracts is under way and that is a good thing. therefore, let us not allow the european union to take advantage of people's misery to meddle in matters which are not within its competence. france is doing and must do more to pay those who must be paid. we also need to end the scandalous use of illegals in the platform economy. we reject immigration which causes social dumping. our jobs should be reserved for our own people first. if globalization is synonymous with precariousness, let us make the nation the lever that will make it possible to fight effectively against these unworthy practices.
madam president, platforms are sold as a magical world of innovation and entrepreneurship. but, but beyond the marketing and the dazzling, the mobile apps, the services that are provided, even the algorithms, are far from being innovations today. the only magic that the platforms offer is the trick of making the boss and the corresponding work relationship disappear. the only innovation they have provided is the ability to travel back in time to the 19th century and the framework of social and labour rights that existed there. the only entrepreneurship that really exists is the transfer of economic risk from the company that hires to the worker who works and risks everything. what we need is to treat platform workers like workers, collective bargaining, employment contracts, social protection. by the way, for those and for all the workers.
madam president, we're here to discuss the working conditions of workers on digital platforms. they may talk about new forms of employment or new realities of the world of work, but the form of exploitation is the same, and old, reminiscent of the day-shift, piecework and waving with freedom in the form of flexibility to increase labour deregulation and precariousness. digital platforms mainly use fake freelancers who often work under the platform's guise and rules and do so for a commission or paying a percentage of the price charged always under the rules determined by the platform. there is no other solution than to recognise the existing employment relationship in accordance with the national legislation of each country. it is unacceptable that in the 21st century the technical and scientific progress achieved should not be used to improve the living and working conditions of workers, but rather to increase their exploitation.
madam president, commissioner, today, as always in history, the socialists defend the rights of the workers, especially the most vulnerable. there is an army of people working through digital platforms today, and the overwhelming majority of them are not entitled to a pension or sick leave, working an average of 60 hours a week. this lack of protection and precariousness is disguised as independent work, when we all know that the relationship is one of dependence, often extreme. the only fair way to resolve this situation is to determine whether there is a subordinate employment relationship with the platform having to prove that it is not. if we create an intermediate category of protection, as some people want, we will be opening the way to minimal protection and the degradation of labour protection. in the name of the dignity of the world of work and an economy that works for people, we have the right to fight for the rights of these workers.
the report 'fishers for the future' was unanimously adopted by the committee on fisheries. this is a rare event in the european parliament, which shows the broad consensus that has gathered around the seriousness of the situation, giving us the necessary measures to correct it. i thank all my colleagues, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups, for their valuable and constructive contributions. i am particularly grateful to the coordinator of the s&d group in the committee on fisheries, my colleague mrs clara aguilera, for her solidarity and confidence. i am grateful for the many contributions received from the sector, which prove that this issue is understood by all as being decisive for the future of the profession. in 2017, the first social data assessment report in the fisheries sector accounts for around 150 000 people employed in the union fishing fleet, 63% of whom are over 40 years old. these figures confirm what most member states and the frontline partners have been saying for at least two decades. the fishermen are getting older and older, and it is becoming increasingly difficult to attract the new generations to fish. the diagnosis is long overdue, but it takes action to reverse the situation. that is the reason for this own-initiative report. it's time to act. the common fisheries policy aims to ensure the long-term social, economic and environmental sustainability of fisheries. in many communities, the social importance of the fisheries and aquaculture sectors even exceeds their direct economic contribution. in the limited time available to me, i have tried to highlight the most important aspects. improving working conditions, habitability and safety on board are key. despite the european union's accession to international conventions relating to ship safety, the truth is that many of the rules do not apply directly to small-scale vessels, which make up 85% of the community fleet. the need to take account of the specific nature of work on board fishing vessels should also be stressed. it is imperative to enforce the labour law frameworks and to get all member states to ratify ilo convention no 188. improving training and the recognition of training at european level are essential. the recognition of training acquired in different member states is cumbersome and bureaucratic and undermines the right to free movement. the importance of practical knowledge is not lost, but the attraction of new generations of fishermen also depends on formal certification, which helps personal appreciation and social recognition. it is imperative to ensure gender balance and to value the role played by women throughout the fishing industry. only 4% of fishermen in the european union are women. there is a lot to be done to recognize the role of women. to ensure the generational renewal that is essential for the continuity of fishing activity, there needs to be greater social recognition of the activity and its importance for the supply of healthy food, sustainably produced in habitats in good environmental condition and contributing to the health of europeans. we must combat the prejudice that fishermen are predators interested only in exploiting resources without thinking about the future. fishermen are and will increasingly be the guardians of the sea. i call for the report to be adopted by all members next wednesday. i am speaking directly to you, commissioner. it is imperative that the concrete recommendations we put forward are followed up and responded to. this issue has been debated for more than two decades without any concrete action being taken and the situation is of course worse than it was two decades ago. i repeat, commissioner, and i know that i have your support on this matter: it is time to act in favour of the fishermen and the fisheries sector of the european union.
in writing. the application of article 349 of the treaty should take into account the additional social, demographic, economic and climatic challenges faced by the outermost regions. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the context of the union's policy on the environment. the geographical position of these regions requires the promotion of effective territorial cohesion, with a focus on maritime and air mobility policies that bring these territories closer together and ensure connectivity, minimising the costs of passenger and freight transport and reducing their environmental impacts. the implementation of the green deal must include a blue pact to protect ocean resources and develop maritime potential, and the cap must take account of the specificities of agricultural methods, the protection of biodiversity and the integral and sustainable development of rural areas. promoting sustainable tourism by supporting pilot projects for green and digital solutions is the best path to economic development. the new generations demand better training opportunities, by integrating the reality of the ors into erasmus+, and decent employment, with policies that take into account local economic specificities.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr minister, the science tells us that if we don't act now, we will not be able to limit the temperature increase on this planet to the limits of the paris agreement. fit for 55 will ensure the climate transition and the achievement of the objectives of the climate act. this transition will be cross-cutting and will affect all sectors. today i would like to highlight the transport sector. the legislative proposal on co2 performance standards for new light vehicles will be key to the decarbonisation of this sector. however, we need more action to ensure that the sector does its part to achieve the 2030 target. we will move to zero-emission cars, but along the way we cannot forget to ensure accessibility for our citizens and all regions, including the most remote such as the outermost regions. only with everyone on board will we be able to transition to more sustainable mobility.
madam president, 20 years after september 11 we eloped from afghanistan, committing yet another set of mistakes like we did throughout these years. the us changed the situation on the ground in terms of security for two decades, but now everything has fallen apart. we can only hope that the terrorists don’t find safe haven in afghanistan yet again. but nobody is truly certain of that, because state building was a disaster. the social and economic conditions on the ground are dire. corruption was the norm for many of these years. and we, as europeans, as europe, were always on the weak side of the international coalition, since we always lacked the capacity to determine ourselves, particularly in what relates to security. now, we have a nation destroyed and radicalism back in power. we fear the most for those in afghanistan, particularly women, and the least we can do is pledge that we will do all in our power for this not to be a story of despair for all of them. we need to provide them with some hope. therefore, we must do more; we need to start building the conditions for safe humanitarian aid in afghanistan again, and the conditions for development and equal rights to go back to those people’s lives, to those women’s lives. at the same time we need to reflect on the many mistakes of this 20 years, and on the selfishness of many european authorities and political parties that showed no solidarity towards those refugees that have left that country in despair these last weeks or months. europe must be a land of opportunities, a safe haven for dignity, for human rights, for international law. europe cannot become more and more the land of closed borders and closed hearts. we owe that to the afghans now, and we certainly owe that to ourselves and to the world.
madam president, mr high representative, colleagues, but also to the lebanese people we spoke to on the ground and want to listen to the voice of this european parliament. lebanon faces one of the three worst economic and social crisis of the last century in the whole world. shortage of water, electricity, fuel, decent and affordable food. three out of four people fell into poverty in one year. the world’s highest number of refugees per capita. a default in international payments, a dramatic drop in purchasing power and in salaries. we have seen images of garbage on the streets. hospitals are failing, schools maybe not reopening. this is how bad the situation is on the ground. on top of all of that, a year ago the blast at the port in beirut killed hundreds and displaced thousands. a tragic symbol of the country’s tragedy, of the country’s situation. the perception of corruption and political blockage is everywhere. the situation must change now! humanitarian aid to the population must be a priority of the new government, as well as reforms! long awaited reforms of the political system, of the financial system, of the energy sector, of the judiciary. corruption must stop, inaction must end. the new government has an opportunity if it understands that business as usual is not an option. citizens deserve a government that finally decides, and that works with people’s interests in mind. people cannot wait! we need action now from the new government and the international partners must step-up if that doesn’t happen and sanctions must remain as a possibility if that doesn’t happen. we won’t leave you alone. that’s what we say to the lebanese people. we were there, we saw your despair with our own eyes, and we will not forget.
madam president, the 2020 beirut port explosion was also the explosion of an intricate political system where clan histories and legacies of tragedies, the public and the private, the national and the family, are mixed. a system marked by corruption and impunity that must be brought to an end and that has led the country into the abyss of hyperinflation, unemployment, lack of water, electricity, fuel and medicines and, worst of all, disbelief. the formation of a new government after 13 months of stalemate creates conditions for implementing a reform agenda starting with the agreement with the imf and holding municipal and presidential elections without delay. fair, transparent and inclusive elections. one last chance for all of us. only the lebanese people can choose their future. it is the duty of the european union to support you at this crucial time. i wish that beirut, which nadia tuéni described as "a thousand times dead, a thousand times resurrected", will rise again from the rubble.
an authoritarian, stagnant kleptocracy, led by a president for life, surrounded by a circle of oligarchs. one day, russia may become a democracy. but at the moment, the phrase with which i begin this speech is the one used by the ep to describe the russian reality. in this journey towards democracy, the eu has a role to play. most of us believe that the council should adopt a strategy of encouraging democratic tendencies in russia. and most of us make a point of distinguishing russia from russians. we need to counterbalance the escalation of russia and china to weaken democracy around the world. we must reduce our dependence on russian gas, oil and other raw materials. we must tighten up sanctions of various kinds: political and to combat illicit financial flows. we have to support russian human rights activists. if we do, maybe one day russia will be a democracy.
the s&d group is therefore calling for a new approach to the problem of the chinese economy, which is based on the principle of the free movement of goods and services. the european union's relationship with china must therefore take all of this into account, but it must have respect for human rights at its heart. it is in this context that we must say clearly from here that we do not agree with china's systematic confrontation with europe, in particular with a process of sanctions against our colleagues or the systematic violation of human rights and the rule of law. china's actions must therefore have consequences. two days ago, there was an election in macau. if in most countries the holding of elections is the highest expression of democracy, it is quite clear that the elections in macau were not. in open violation of the agreement with portugal at the time of the handover of macau, the chinese authorities excluded from the elections all candidates who represented political openness and independence from the beijing government. this is unacceptable! the handover of the territory was made with the guarantee that democracy would be respected in that region. if china does not respect agreements like this, signed at the highest level with a member state of the european union and deposited at the united nations, how can we expect it to respect others? we want to cooperate and negotiate with china, but we cannot do so without very demanding conditions.
madam president, it is impossible to discuss a new eu-china strategy without mentioning xinjiang, tibet, hong kong, but also macau and the constant violations of the portugal-china joint declaration and the rights, freedoms and guarantees enshrined therein. we cannot remain indifferent to the misuse of the pandemic to suppress freedoms of assembly and demonstration, to press conditions such as the instructions given to tdm journalists not to make news considered negative for china, the prohibition of the vigil in memory of the victims of tiananmen and we cannot tolerate the arbitrary and persecutory disqualification of the various pro-democracy candidates in the legislative elections in macau last sunday, contradicting the call of the european union in defense, quote, of the rights and freedoms guaranteed. the peaceful citizens of macau responded with a 13 percent increase in abstention and an exponential growth in the number of blank and void votes. the european union cannot stand by and watch. there will be no deal with china as long as it continues to violate the agreements it has made with european union countries.
the success of the instrument for pre-accession assistance is undeniable. this has been one of the main levers of foreign policy for our neighbourhood and has contributed very positively to the accession countries, from the construction and rehabilitation of infrastructure to aid in case of natural disasters, such as the reconstruction of the school park in albania after the tragedy of the 2019 earthquake through the eu4schools programme. the funds from this instrument have been used to modernise and prepare these countries. i welcome the excellent work done by our fellow co-rapporteurs tonino picula and željana zovko in reaching agreement on ipa iii in june, especially after all the improvements introduced following the negotiations with the european parliament. i hope that it can be implemented as soon as possible and that the improvements, especially in the areas of the rule of law, human rights and environmental protection, can also continue to improve living conditions in these candidate countries.
mr president, dear colleagues, madam president of the commission, the porto social summit was not a beauty contest. that means that, from now on, we must take every chance to implement the social pillar objectives in europe. we need the reduction of poverty to be at the forefront of european policies. unfortunately, i have to say i didn’t see it high up in the commission president’s priorities today. that is why this group is clearly calling for an anti-poverty law in europe with clear binding targets to improve the lives of millions of people. is the commission ready to respond to such a strong commitment, madam president? moreover, we need all the resources we can get to fight poverty and inequalities. we need economic reforms and rules that push for green and social investments to pursue sustainable well-being for all. that is also why we pushed for the recovery plans to focus on the social conditions. the commission must ensure that this is a true priority, because we were not in porto for the photos or the beautiful weather. we were there to make a difference for the future. if you were also there for the same reasons as we were, this is the time to set your priorities correctly, madam president. we want the end of extreme poverty to become one of your biggest endeavours. we cannot be clearer on this matter from the side of our political family.
the debate on the state of the union, introduced at an opportune moment, cannot be a mere ritual. it has to represent political commitment. that is what we expect from the president of the commission. a commitment that strengthens the eu's geopolitical capacity. and the challenges are there. first of all, in the middle east, where the situation in afghanistan has created new demands. and while geopolitical capacity is important in this region, the eu's responsibilities in receiving and protecting those forced to leave are no less important. we can't repeat the mistakes of the past. but also in the search for global commitments for a fairer, global taxation that combats tax evasion and avoidance. the need to mobilise new own resources to finance the eu budget is also highlighted. we expect the ec and the member states to fulfil the commitment made in the mff 2021/2027 and in the establishment of ngeu. we demand that the ec play its role as guardian of the treaties by demanding respect for the rule of law and, in particular, by preventing access to european funds by countries which do not respect it. we need the commitment of the ec, which will do everything it can to make budgetary rules more comprehensible, more transparent, more democratic and, above all, to enable economic recovery and to be friendly to cohesion, investment for the digital and climate transition, economic growth.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, taxes are one of the pillars of national sovereignty. we must not question this principle of fiscal sovereignty, just as we cannot turn a blind eye to the challenges of a globalised economy and an integrated internal market such as ours. administrative cooperation in tax matters is essential for the effort to combat tax fraud and evasion and money laundering. the exchange of information between member states is a fundamental instrument for the union to be an area of tax justice, where everyone pays what he or she owes and only what he or she owes. this exchange of information must be strengthened by progressively increasing the amount of information available, but above all by improving its quality. what we find in this report is that all the member states, all of them, are failing in this work and that is the main warning we should leave. we need to exchange more information and better information, but first we need to be competent to do what the law already says. let me be very clear: we do not want this enhanced exchange of information to be just an administrative matter, it cannot be indifferent to european citizens. with more and better information we want to reduce red tape, save on administrative burdens and free up resources for the tax authorities to better fulfil their mission, always with the utmost respect for the rights of taxpayers, from data protection to privacy. more information means more responsibility, better information must mean better practice and enhanced cooperation must mean results. that is what this parliament must do and what the citizens of europe deserve.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the exchange of information and administrative cooperation between tax authorities is essential to combat fraud and tax evasion and money laundering. these objectives are apparently consensual, but every time we discuss one of these reports we find that there are political forces, countries and even european institutions which are not only not willing to do what is necessary but are doing everything they can to prevent these objectives from being achieved with any degree of effectiveness. the fact that we have sought to gather information on the exchange of information and that the same states which have committed themselves to continue and comply with these requirements for the exchange of information refuse to exchange information on the subject is quite worrying, as is the highly restrictive interpretation which the european commission has made of its own constraints, which has allowed this information to escape parliament. if that is the case, and if that is the european commission's interpretation, i hope that in a future review of the cap the european commission will give itself these powers and give parliament access to information to monitor the implementation of the cap. in fact, as has already been said, the european commission has paid very little attention to this area. i also hope that the european commission will welcome the calls made in this report for the expansion of information exchanged between tax authorities, particularly at the level of real estate and dividends, the level of discrimination in information and the level of information from financial institutions on final beneficiaries.
in writing. – gender—based violence is an epidemic that has been ignored for too long. one in three women in the eu have experienced physical and/or sexual violence since the age of 15. if a similarly serious problem affected one third of all men, i am sure it would have already have been appropriately addressed. that said, i am glad to see the report on gender—based violence come to a vote, and i want to thank the rapporteurs and shadows for their work. specifically, i would like to commend the holistic approach taken, with the recognition of online and offline gender—based violence from an intersectional perspective. president von der leyen announced, in her state of the union address, that a legislative proposal would be brought forward to tackle violence against women by the end of the year. i hope this proposal will take inspiration from this report and put forward concrete steps to prevent gender—based violence, adequately support victims and bring perpetrators to justice.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, we cannot dissociate the recovery from the negative social consequences of the covid-19 pandemic from the european union's long-term employment and social protection goals, which are absolutely vital for the future of the european project and for winning the trust of citizens. those targets are set out in the action plan for the european pillar of social rights, adopted unanimously at the porto summit in may 2021. the regulation on the recovery and resilience facility also sets clear objectives in the social, employment and training fields. moreover, the mechanism requires member states to explain how the national plans will contribute to the implementation of the principles of the european pillar of social rights. it is therefore necessary to clarify how the commission will monitor and ensure that contribution. it is also important to understand how the commission will ensure that the green and digital transition, funded by the recovery and resilience facility, will contribute to reducing poverty and promoting the well-being of europeans. finally, it is important to understand how the commission will ensure that the social reforms included in the recovery and resilience mechanism are consistent with the guidelines of the european semester, in order to avoid contradictions that undermine the credibility of the european project. the title of this question is about reversing the social consequences of the pandemic, but we can't just settle for a reversal. the european union's ambition cannot be to restore the social situation that existed before the pandemic. our mission must be to get out of this crisis with more and better social protection and more and better jobs.
madam president, the us administration's sanctioning of former bulgarian officials and oligarchs for their involvement in corruption is a significant statement, reflecting the problems we face in fighting corruption between eu member states, and therefore requires careful political reading by parliament and the commission. it is the result of the continuing deterioration of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights to which this country, like others, has been subject, affecting in particular the independence of the judiciary, the separation of powers, the fight against corruption, freedom of the press, and undermining citizens' trust in institutions and democracy. we have been vocal and will continue to actively denounce this situation and to defend uncompromisingly european values and the interests of the bulgarian people. nothing justifies the commission's complacency in the face of the violations of the rule of law by some governments and member states, nothing excuses the complacency of certain political groups in the face of the real assault on european democracies that we have been witnessing. that said, it's important to think about what to do. the union has several mechanisms through which it can tackle the backsliding of the rule of law and corruption in the member states. it is therefore important to understand how the commission interprets the message from our transatlantic partner. it is important to understand what specific actions president von der leyen was referring to yesterday in her speech on the state of the union, in terms of protecting the rule of law. it is important to understand the real role that is envisaged for the european public prosecutor's office in this matter and it is important, above all, that there is political courage to go forward in this fight.
in july, we affirmed in this same plenary session our commitment to respect for the rights and freedoms of expression of all citizens in cuba, defending the dignity and physical integrity of those who are fighting for a democratic cuba. i reiterate this position today, taking the opportunity to say that the effort to increase cybersecurity, to which we are all committed, cannot be used as a pretext in cuba to limit the freedoms of citizens. however, it will not help cuba or any other country in latin america or other parts of the world to increase sanctions that have a negative impact on the quality of life of citizens. that is why we continue to see it as essential to maintain the diplomatic platform created by the political dialogue and cooperation agreement of the european union. madam president, commissioner, we are still not having a thorough discussion in this parliament of the problems affecting many latin american countries. i cannot in this connection fail to express my disappointment that, for the second year in a row, president von der leyen's state of the union speech does not contain a single reference to latin america, probably one of the regions of the world with the strongest historical and cultural links to the european union. it would be good if, for once, we looked at this part of the american continent in a different way.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, we are debating an urgent resolution because, after the historic protests of 11 july 2021, according to ngos, more than 5 000 people were arbitrarily detained and, as of 21 september, 1 306 people are still missing or detained, including 27 minors, and because the un committee on enforced disappearances has opened an emergency file to investigate 187 enforced disappearances. this is what we're talking about and we need to talk about it today. despite the unique narrative of the blockade, cuban society is telling us that no more than sixty years of violations of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the cuban people can be hidden. that is why, frankly and honestly, i do not understand why a section of this house is tabled a resolution calling for the immediate release of the prisoners and there is not a single condemnation of the regime of the díaz-canel government, which has arrested and imprisoned them for exercising their right to freedom of expression. the cuban prisoners deserve at least one conviction from their jailers. the european parliament - and we ask for it in this resolution - wants to be in cuba. that's why we asked for an official mission to be there. the dialogue agreement allows us to do that. we want to be the eyes of europe on the island. we want to keep this agreement, but not just any agreement. we want to be there. we want to monitor. we want civil society to be present. the cuban government has not given us the society we want.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i think those who refuse to condemn the repressive response to the biggest protests that the island of cuba has recently experienced are wrong, just as i think those who refuse to condemn the blockade and its repercussions on the living conditions of cuban citizens are wrong. i believe that we must condemn human rights violations wherever they occur, whatever the country in which they occur and whatever the sign of the government that produces them. i believe that the protection of the right to legitimate protest and freedom of expression and demonstration must always be demanded, and that this must be done consistently and without double standards. it's not worth doing it in some cases and not in others. and, by the way, we must also do so when fundamental rights are being violated here in the european union. the protests of july 11 and 12, in about fifty localities, were mainly due to the deterioration of living conditions, the difficulties of the pandemic, the lack of medicines, food, electricity and inflation, and the lack of freedoms on the island was probably also a motive for a part of the protesters. there is a combination of factors and we have to take into account these concerns which are absolutely legitimate. the díaz-canel government should take note of this malaise, engage in an inclusive national dialogue and pursue reforms that can and should help alleviate this situation and, of course, release all those people who remain detained for political reasons. but i also believe that the american blockade must be condemned, as was done once again on 23 june by a total of 184 states in the framework of the united nations general assembly. the economic, commercial and financial embargo has obviously dire consequences for the cuban people, their living conditions, and relations with the diaspora, and the biden administration should lift it immediately. and finally, i would like to stress once again that the european union's strategy towards cuba, the political dialogue and cooperation agreement, seems to us today, under the present circumstances... (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we face one of the most vicious cases of crackdown on innocent people wanting change and democracy in their country. certainly one author said that communism is incompatible with change and reform for people there. we have to do anything we can, everything that is at our disposal here in parliament. these are words, but i call on the vice-president / high representative and the eu member states to combat by all means these kind of actions against cubans. they deserve their own country, ruled by people they want and for it to be really democratic.
the european parliament is once again being used as an instrument in the campaign against cuba, in line with the policy of interference and aggression of the united states of america, which has been intensified by trump and is now being maintained by biden against cuba and the cuban people. in a hypocritical way, they cry out for human rights while at the same time concealing the existence of the blockade imposed by the united states of america, which, in defiance of the principle of the united nations charter, brutally disrespects and violently violates the rights of the cuban people. its aim is to call into question the achievements, the development options, the sovereignty and independence of cuba. let's talk about cuba then. let us talk about the criminal and illegal economic, financial and commercial blockade of an extraterritorial nature imposed by the united states over 60 years ago. let's talk about the measures implemented by the trump administration that persist, even in times of pandemics, aimed at preventing access to essential goods such as medicines and food, seeking to undermine rights such as the right to health or economic development. let us talk about the destabilizing and provocative actions that the united states of america is promoting, cynically exploiting the harmful consequences of the blockade for which they are responsible, destabilizing and provocative actions to which this parliament is joining in this resolution. let us also talk about the fact that, in the face of this extremely complex and demanding situation, cuba and its people have not refrained from showing solidarity in the field of public health to other countries and peoples, including countries that are part of the european union. we therefore reaffirm our solidarity with cuba and the cuban people, and we value their courage and dignity and their resistance, and we demand an end to the blockade, interference and aggression against cuba.
madam president, i condemn the detention of numerous protesters, including activists, oppositionists and journalists, following the protests in cuba and call for their immediate and unconditional release. violations of human rights, freedom of expression, the right to association and demonstration must be fought in cuba, as elsewhere in the world. that said, we should clarify whether we believe that the european union should have a role as a global actor in defending and promoting the values of democracy and human rights or whether it should be reduced to irrelevance in this matter. if we want to make a difference, it is essential to create spaces for dialogue with a view to change, and in this context the agreement with cuba is a tool which we must use in a demanding manner as a way of modernising and democratizing the country. there are no good and bad human rights violations, they are all deplorable. it is therefore appropriate to reflect on the fact that since 2018 we have adopted nine resolutions on venezuela and this is the fourth debate on cuba without having been able to discuss serious events in colombia, chile, guatemala, honduras, without having said anything about the attacks on the rule of law perpetrated by bolsonaro and the terrible humanitarian situation to which he has condemned the brazilian population with his denial. and all because there is a majority in this house that does not allow these debates.
mr president, alongside the climate change crisis, our planet is beset by an unprecedented crisis of biodiversity loss. this is the time to step up our efforts against this crisis and thus achieve the sustainable development goals. the protection of biodiversity must be an integral part of the eu's external policy, particularly in its relations with low- and middle-income countries. funding and technical assistance should be made available to these countries, avoiding further loss of biodiversity that affects everyone. the eu should thus set an example for the rest of the world. special attention should also be paid to our outermost regions and overseas territories which represent around 80% of biodiversity in the european union and are vulnerable to both human and natural influences. by protecting our nature, our biodiversity, we are also ensuring the best use of our planet's resources and a decent future for future generations.
in writing. – it is estimated that 22% of women in the eu have been victims of physical or sexual violence. per day, in europe, seven women die, on average, due to domestic violence. we cannot leave this silent pandemic without an answer. we have to do all we can to protect these women and their rights. i welcome this report. in specific, i welcome its focus on guaranteeing access to legal, financial and psychological support. moreover, i would like to stress the importance of the report’s calls for instances of domestic violence to be taken into account by courts, when determining children’s custody, and for effective protections for victims in cases of shared custody.
mr president, let me first state that i fully concur with the high representative: there can be no doubt that the us remains the closest and most important strategic partner of the eu. we see several of president biden’s steps as very positive: from the commitment to multilateralism to the rejoining of the paris agreement and the world health organization, to the global agreement on corporate tax under the oecd. however, as much as we point to the positive, we must not take a blind eye to other actions, from the unilateral and non—coordinated withdrawal from afghanistan, to the australia–united kingdom–united states (aukus) agreement in the south pacific. the us acted alone on this, and these are matters of regional and international security that affect us directly. this trend builds from previous presidencies and was at its peak with mr trump. what the us shows us is not that they are not interested in the long alliance with the eu; it is just that they do not depend on the eu. they have their own strategic autonomy. the eu must also have its own. we need to stand prepared to defend our own positions. our shared values with the us do not always converge or translate into common interests. the eu must stand united, speak in one voice and be able to stand for its values and interests in the global arena.
mr. president, let's get to the point: the euro-atlantic alliance continues to prove itself irreplaceable in defending the rules-based world order and in defending the values of democracy and human rights in the face of the rise and increasing assertiveness of the powers and liberals. on the other hand, the withdrawal of the united states from afghanistan without proper coordination with the european union and the aukus agreement without the involvement of the old partners cannot be achieved without any adaptation to change and serious reflection on our part. we should not be naive and should be rather assertive and pragmatic. only a european security and defence policy and greater decision-making capacity in foreign policy will give us effective strategic autonomy and greater effectiveness in action, which will enable us to assert ourselves as a partner with influence on a global scale. the stronger and more assertive europe is, the more relevant it will be to its partners. the diagnosis is made, ladies and gentlemen. we need decisions.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in less than a month, we’ll be celebrating the fall of the berlin wall. however, regrettable as it may be, new walls have been built to impede freedom to enter some countries. sometimes they are not built with bricks and concrete: they are made out of repression and violation of fundamental freedoms. every one of the thousands of protesters’ detentions, every violation of human rights, every unfair judicial decision is a brick in that wall. belarusian people deserve and expect freedom, democracy and prosperity. the regime of lukashenko does not hesitate to deliver the opposite just to keep him in power, whatever it takes. now he has completely crossed the boundaries of humanity, weaponing human beings by smuggling migrants beyond the belarusian border. this is totally unacceptable. the eu must react, strengthening and broadening the sanctions against those responsible for the state-organised smuggling and the people that continue assuring the survival of the regime. action is needed. additional action is clearly needed from the side of the eu and in the international community. it is clear that lukashenko went too far, but this by no means can justify the way all these migrants are being treated at our borders. the situation on the border between poland and belarus is dramatic, with migrants dying during the cold nights without adequate protection. many, including children, are stuck in limbo for weeks, with others being pushed back. the eu must be clear about what european values are about. yes, saving lives. yes, promoting democracy. yes, promoting human rights in belarus – but also in our own borders.
mr president, this debate is part of the operation of interference and destabilisation against belarus which the european union, its institutions and, in particular, some member states are trying to carry out. the exploitation of refugees and asylum seekers, most of whom come from afghanistan and iraq, who are on the borders of belarus with poland and lithuania, and who are destined for countries that are part of the european union, is a clear example of this action that has no more than geostrategic and political objectives, putting at risk the lives and security of thousands of people who are seeking a better life. what is required is that the european union and the member states should guide their action by respecting the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of this country, in compliance with the principles of the united nations charter and international law, and respecting the right of the belarusian people, like any other people, to decide its present and its future.
mr president, one year after the day on which the belarusians took to the streets in protest, there is an endless series of arbitrary arrests, human rights violations, people subjected to torture and forced into exile abroad. to all this we add the hijacking of a plane to detain a journalist, the outlawing of the helsinki committee, the last human rights organization operating inside belarus, and an endless number of immigrant refugees who are being exploited and whose rights are being violated at our borders. commissioner, we need a rapid response to these migrants and refugees that respects international law in its entirety. we must strengthen sanctions against belarus, but sanctions, commissioner, are directed at political actions, and what we are talking about are also crimes, crimes committed by mr lukashenko, and mr lukashenko has to be brought before the international criminal court.
madam president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, the pandemic has led the european union to embark on an unprecedented effort to create a true european health union. this effort includes the creation of hera european health emergency preparedness and response authority, which strengthens our capacity for prevention, detection and response. the objectives we have all set ourselves can only be achieved if we are all equally involved and committed to their achievement. the commission cannot therefore exclude the european parliament from this procedure, because, in addition to the unacceptable legislative precedent, we want to be involved in improving the proposal presented. we need: a real agency and not a structure within the commission; clear governance, with the european parliament as an integral part, not as an observer, but as a full member; robust, clearly defined funding that does not absorb most of the eu4health funds; transparency in its relationship with the private sector; openness in its relationship with patient associations and their representatives; and closeness to our citizens. the european parliament cannot simply approve budgets or wait until 2025 to take stock. after all that has been achieved, we must now complete the construction of the european union for health in the same spirit of collaboration as in the beginning. the europeans will not accept it otherwise.
madam president, commissioner, parliament has a say in the governance of the european union's trust funds. in its workings: parliament will ensure the unity of the budget of the european union. the trust funds shall not act to the detriment of the ivcdci. its management must be transparent. in their use: they are an instrument, that's for sure. but they are an instrument for promoting the values of the european union, human rights, the rights of refugees. they are not a border management tool to be used for the benefit of people, in direct support of their needs, by appropriate bodies, to support people's lives when the first humanitarian aid is no longer required. as regards the turkish mechanism, commissioner, we must continue to be vigilant in respecting the rights of refugees and to ensure that the money actually reaches the projects, the civil society, the people for support in health, education, employment, housing without discrimination.
madam president, commissioner, the pandemic has caused an unprecedented economic and social crisis, hitting the tourism sector hard, particularly in the regions that depend on it the most, such as the autonomous region of madeira, an outermost region. the workers who directly and indirectly contribute to the functioning of this sector have suffered the most. with vaccination reaching around 80% coverage across the european union and the digital certificate in place, there is thus an urgent need to boost a recovery focused on the digital and green transition. the recovery in tourism this summer was positive, but not enough to make up for what was lost. we therefore need a european strategy for tourism and a specific heading in the long-term eu budget that will bring stability and sustainability to the sector and safeguard jobs and overcome the specific challenges faced by businesses, in particular micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the threats to democracy are of various kinds. harassment, misinformation with obvious intent, use of clearly misleading advertising. these are obvious problems and we see them every day, every time we visit social media. but there are worse things: the promotion of hate speech, the silencing of political opponents, spying, and even interference in electoral acts. this is the reality of the present day, and we must fight against it. in this reality it is clear that self-regulation does not exist, it does not work. we just have to act. i hope that the digital services act package can be a step towards combating this problem. clear and effective legislation, a strategic approach at institutional level with political coordination and credible and robust instruments for offenders are the only alternative.
the increase in energy prices in europe over the past few months is posing an unprecedented challenge to the lives of european citizens. this increase is related to external factors such as the dependence on third countries for energy supply, and not to the climate change, although this has triggered speculation in the market for buying and selling emission allowances. the solution will be to launch a coordinated european response to ensure economic and social cohesion. in addition, it will be necessary to launch a package of social measures to compensate our citizens for the increased burdens they will have to bear, with the aim of reducing energy poverty, a reality that affects millions of europeans. in parallel, the 'fit for 55' legislative package aims to ensure more climate action. in this energy price crisis, improving energy efficiency across the eu will play a crucial role, as will accelerating the transition to renewable energy, to the detriment of fossil fuels, including through additional investment. this will ensure the protection of the most vulnerable groups and at the same time european competitiveness and the climate transition, and specifically the necessary reduction of emissions.
in writing. – the european union must react to the energy price crisis with a set of measures at eu level that member states can implement to face the increases. although the overall gas consumption in europe has decreased from the peak of over 500 million cubic meters in 2010 to less than 380 million cubic meters in 2020, household owners, that account for almost 30% of eu’s energy consumption, are still finding it difficult to switch to new renewable energy sources and over 35% of them still rely on natural gas. ambitious measures must be undertaken swiftly to tackle energy poverty and protect the most vulnerable citizens and businesses. a plan must be set up to better coordinate member states when negotiating gas imports and to provide adequate fast implementable measures such as the ones of the spanish social democratic government. this energy crisis is not a national issue, and should be a reminder that renewable energy is part of our future, thus the solutions must be at eu level.
in writing. portugal is one of the eu countries with the highest energy costs. the causes identified by the european commission, such as increased demand for gas after the resumption of economic activities, low levels of storage or the rise in the price of carbon allowances on the european market, are not convincing. it is clear that the shortage of energy prices is not unconnected to the process of liberalization, privatization and deregulation in the sector that has taken place in recent decades, carried out by successive ps, psd/cds governments with the consent of the eu. the results are visible: in addition to the price increases, employment with rights has decreased, national interests and energy sovereignty have been disregarded, economic, social and environmental problems have been ignored, and the defence of a quality public service has been disregarded. and as the energy deficit and the price of energy increase, so do the profits of the monopoly groups that dominate the sector. energy is a public good and energy supply and affordability is an essential public service. the energy sector, as a strategic sector, is vital to national independence and sovereignty and cannot be subordinated to private interests. it must be at the service of the people and the development of the country, which implies public control.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, the pandora papers are not the first revelations about the use of tax havens for illegal or criminal purposes. and if it is true that not all revelations constitute crimes, it is no less true that we may be faced with evidence of tax evasion and money laundering. this suspicion is enough to justify more ambitious and more demanding measures. but unfortunately in the past it was not enough! now that we're here, we have to answer three questions. first, what's wrong? international negotiations within the g20 and the oecd have been dragging on for too long. in the european union we do not use the means we have to the full extent, and in each of our states (and in mine this is blatant), the governments look the other way. they lack not only ambition but also commitment to implementing european legislation. second, what do we have to do? achieve an international agreement on corporate taxation in the era of globalisation and digitalisation. transform the code of conduct and the eu tax havens blacklist into more effective mechanisms. where is the credibility of the list when it ignores jurisdictions like the seychelles, which dropped off the list two days after the pandora papers scandal broke? finally, commit countries to rules on tax transparency and exchange of information that facilitate the fight against tax fraud and evasion. third, when and how? this is the time to decide. we are debating this today in the european parliament and our positions are clear, but it is the member states who have the power to decide. we have no time to lose and the first step is to get governments to the same table. the choice before us is clear, ladies and gentlemen, and it is between the courage to be more ambitious or burying our heads in the sand of some tax haven. we don't want to wait around for the next scandal. we want governments to join us to prevent it.
madam president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, what the pandora papers reveal is very clear: a reality that makes us ashamed, where some choose the rules they follow and the taxes they pay. unfortunately, this is not new. the succession of scandals and the number of tax havens that are multiplying like mushrooms show that the progress made in recent years is not enough. the right of veto of countries in tax matters must be abolished. we have reached the absurd point of having today a veto in the council over one of the protagonists of the pandora papers. and the blacklist of tax havens needs to be reformed, with fairer criteria and more transparency. none of this is news. none of these measures are new. there is a lack of political will in the council. the council lacks the political will to move towards effective legislative instruments for the implementation of a genuine blacklist of tax havens with serious consequences for the states. you can count on us to tighten up the fight against money laundering even further, starting with the creation of a european authority. we cannot, however, afford to be left to the indignation again. here we have a responsibility to fight and to hold accountable those who need to be held accountable to make a difference.
on behalf of the left group. other mr president, the dutch minister for finance has recently called for an inquiry into the southern european countries because of their limited budgetary margin. this minister of finance governs a member state of the european union which steals tax revenue that legitimately belongs to other member states, including these southern countries, and thus transfers the tax burden from multinational companies to those who live off their work. that finance minister now shows up in the pandora papers proving that it all makes sense. but crocodile tears are not just about the people who now appear in the pandora papers. the groups who were indignant a little while ago, the groups on the right in the european parliament, who were indignant at the revelations of the pandora papers, are the same ones who blocked a resolution of this parliament on the same subject and are preparing, in relation to this report, to block all the concrete amendments to the code of conduct envisaged therein. all the indignation, all the concern, all the declarations of intent, as long as nothing is done in concrete terms - that is the philosophy of the european right. if this report, this excellent report, is amputated in its most consequential part, we shall be able to identify those responsible.
mr president, today, when we discuss revelations of aggressive or harmful tax practices, we come to the inevitable conclusion that something has gone wrong. and if it's important to look back and make that assessment, it's even more essential to look ahead and figure out what we can do differently. the european union is now a single market integrated into a globalised and increasingly digitised economy. the frontiers that the internal market is intended to break down have long since disappeared in the digital market. the opportunities that arise for business must mean more growth, more jobs and more investment. and taxation must be an instrument to serve these aims. it cannot be a blanket of details with holes for tax evasion and money laundering. just as competition must be fair and just, so too must taxation be adequate and transparent. we must use the instruments we have competently and effectively. the code of conduct needs to be better enforced and the blacklist of tax havens needs to have concrete consequences for the jurisdictions it identifies. it is up to each member state to define its taxes, who pays them and how much they pay. the european union has a duty to ensure that cooperation has concrete results in the lives of citizens and businesses. outside, let's speak with one voice. inside, let's be loyal to each other. with more commitment from the member states and more leadership from the union, i am sure we can make progress. it's time to make the first move.
mr president, the pandora papers bring an additional layer of responsibility when we vote on this paramount lalucq report. our workers, families and small businesses are tired of carrying the burden left behind by those who do not pay their fair share of taxes. instead of working together to improve conditions for all, we insist on the tax race to the bottom. to fix this, it is paramount to swiftly implement the oecd agreement and establish a minimum effective level of taxation for corporations. then we must also review the eu list of tax havens. all the words have been said. now we need action and probably even legislation, commissioner. for a proper blacklist, we need a listing process with more transparency and stricter criteria that lists those jurisdictions that refuse to define fair minimum levels of taxation as well. instead of outrage due to one more scandal, what we need is action. this parliament has said repeatedly that, from our side, we are prepared to act.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, commissioner gentiloni, the size of the recovery and resilience fund, spread over the years in which it can be used, is less than half a percentage point, less than 0.5% of european gdp. this has not prevented a barrage of propaganda around this instrument, which will be distributed in drops, with corresponding pressures on member states to implement the famous specific recommendations that most european governments have been wise enough to ignore. however, there are also responsibilities for which the commission must be held accountable. it has already been announced by the european commission that from 2023 economic governance rules will be taken up again and it does not appear that the european commission is preparing to transform them before that time, as would be necessary. and so the question is: does the commission believe that this very meagre macroeconomic stimulus which is the recovery and resilience fund will be sufficient to offset the effects of the return of the economic insanity with which we have been governed?
madam president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the commission on all the programmes it has approved so far. the use of the recovery and resilience funds has to respect all regulations, including rule of law conditionality. and all people and institutions are potential beneficiaries. the commission is responsible for ensuring that these principles are respected. preventing fraud, corruption, conflict of interest is imperative! according to the eurobarometer, 85% of europeans want transparency and effective control of the recovery and resilience funds. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the european union. we will not accept any risk of discrimination against the beneficiaries, on grounds of gender or sexual orientation, or political, of local authorities, of those elected by political families other than those of their governments. and the european commission must ensure that the necessary mechanisms are in place in all management models to prevent any discrimination. these and others. that is what is expected of the commission now, before the plans are approved, and increased vigilance throughout the implementation. parliament will do its part.
on behalf of the ppe group. other madam president, the banking union in 2020 faced an unprecedented crisis, but it proved stronger and more resilient than a decade ago. the pillars of supervision and resolution have proven to be well-prepared to ensure the financial stability of the banking sector. and that was essential for us to face the crisis with greater confidence. unfortunately, there is a third pillar which remains incomplete: the european deposit insurance scheme. if there's one thing we've learned from this crisis, it's that interdependence and solidarity are not just words to grace a speech. the delay in this process leaves depositors more or less protected according to the country in which they have their income and savings, and is therefore unjustifiable. and if we are talking about solidarity, we must also talk about credit default swaps. this measure was important to protect citizens in the face of an unexpected crisis. now in some member states the level of claims they check is significant. in my country, for example, the value of the arrears is over 36 billion euros. and if it is true that the priority is the protection of families and businesses, it is no less true that we must look at the size of bad credit, which remains structurally high in many countries. 2020 was a year of crisis in which the banking union proved resilient. let us hope that in a year's time we will be able to make the long-overdue progress. and we'll be here to defend them.
madam president, first, i would like to congratulate danuta. we have had this endeavour together already in this mandate. it’s again an excellent report, a drive from this parliament to push for the completion of the banking union. i’d like to go back to marek belka’s intervention. yes, indeed, we have to say that we came to this crisis with the banking sector better prepared for the turmoil of the crisis. yes, it is true that we faced the crisis with more resilience, even if with a lot of public policy in the middle of it to sustain the situation, also in the banking sector and the financing of the economy. but, in the end, we have all been pledged to the completion of the banking union. we cannot have the financing of europe – we want the safety of the banking sector in europe – without the third pillar, without edis (the european deposit insurance scheme). we need edis because we need to protect citizens against the banking crisis all over europe, because it will improve the confidence of depositors and investors all over europe. it will strengthen the stability of the euro of our economic and monetary union. all member states can benefit from it. we need to complete it. we need to find the political will to do it.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the main difference between crossborder regions and other regions is that the region next to them is not just another region but also another country. but this cannot be a reason why infrastructure, services and investments which other regions in the same countries have as guarantees, or at least have no obstacles to implement, should be added to the already common discrimination against these regions within the framework of those countries. in many countries of the european union, as in my own, crossborder regions are also regions far from large urban centres and therefore regions where there is already a lower density of public services, infrastructure, desertification and abandonment problems. if we add to these chronic problems, at least in some countries of the european union, the legal obstacles which this mechanism was intended to overcome, we are aggravating the situation of these regions and going against the whole spirit of european cohesion policy. that is why the european parliament has sought to discuss this matter and to overcome some of the concerns that were initially expressed in terms of the voluntary nature of this mechanism, which, if not confirmed, could call into question the principle of subsidiarity. parliament's contribution has helped to allay these doubts as regards the implementation of this mechanism. and that is why it is so difficult to understand the council's blockade, if only because it is contrary to the past positions of several governments, some of which are still in office, with regard to the continuation of this mechanism and its compatibility with the principle of subsidiarity. it is sad that the european union, which has proved so effective in overcoming all legal barriers, in some cases and in my view too far, to achieve harmonisation of the internal market, is not able to overcome such simple obstacles to promote public investment, to promote public services and basic infrastructure. and the truth is that the council has not brought here an explanation for this blockade, much less a proposal for an alternative instrument for solving these problems, and so the question remains, and i repeat the question, which is, by the way, the subject of this oral question, whether there is an alternative, whether the council is going to propose an alternative, whether the commission is going to propose an alternative, or whether the idea is to keep everything the same?
mr president, the moment we are marking here today is of special significance, as it is the first visible sign of the much-needed reform of the common european asylum and migration system, for which we have been fighting for a long time. my first words are therefore of appreciation, not only for the excellent work done by our rapporteur, our colleague elena yoncheva, but also, if i may, for the negotiating capacity shown by the portuguese presidency in unblocking a stalemate which had lasted for several years. in the face of the many and enormous challenges facing europe today in this field, only an agency with a strengthened mandate and with a wide technical/operational capacity can, on the ground, provide the necessary assistance to member states and enforce the right to asylum and the unwavering respect for human rights. i hope that this is the missing step so that we can now start moving safely in the right direction also with the other legislative proposals which make up the migration and asylum pact. although i must express my scepticism about this pact, since it is not based on solidarity, mandatory sharing of responsibility - the only solution to having a pact that actually gives a clear answer to our needs - let it be clear that the need to make progress in the common european asylum and migration system cannot lead to progress at any cost. we will not give in and we will not give up our fight to defend uncompromisingly a system with a human face, respecting human rights and based on solidarity in the sharing of responsibility between member states. as the recently deceased president jorge sampaio said in his last public speech: 'solidarity is not optional'.
madam president, as we said, my body, my choice, my rights. is that obvious? obviously not, when you listen to what is going on inside this house. and yet, i, when i was 20 years old, never imagined i would be standing here defending an obvious fact. because, quite simply, i am part of that generation of women who have benefited -- i mean, who have benefited -- from the struggles that led to being able to freely dispose of our bodies, to have access to contraception and to have access to abortion when we didn't want to, or when we weren't ready to carry that child. yet, it is clearly not to advance these rights - because there is still work to be done on abortion rights here in europe - that we are here, but to fight restrictions on these rights in texas and here. i say: all women must stand in solidarity with all women on these rights, because they are fundamental rights, here as elsewhere.
madam president, sexual and reproductive rights are inseparable from fundamental rights such as the right to life, liberty, equal treatment, education, health or safety. around the world, we see attempts to impose backward and reactionary views on women's sexuality and their role in society. they want to force a return to unsafe, clandestine, unprotected and dangerous abortions for women's physical and mental health, thus reversing one of their most important achievements. the way is forward, not backward. alongside the protection of women's sexual and reproductive health and rights, make progress in strengthening public services, including free public health care, access to reproductive health services, implementation of sex education, free access to contraceptives and family planning services. forward, not backward. the women's struggle has shown and will show that it is the only way!
madam president, what we're discussing here today is not just the texas abortion law. it is the civilizational regression that strikes at the model of our societies, and that strikes at what is most sacred to them: the protection of human rights. women's rights are human rights, my dear colleague gahler. the decision to restrict the period for voluntary termination of pregnancy to six weeks, including in cases of rape, when we all know how difficult it is to identify this state and to take a decision within that period, only serves to put women's lives at risk, penalising women from the most vulnerable population groups in particular. but this law does not stop here. it encourages something absolutely deplorable and disgusting in our societies: it encourages whistleblowing for the sake of reward. we cannot be silent when women's rights to sexual and reproductive health and dignity are at stake, whether in texas or poland or anywhere else in the world. the decision to suspend the application of this law stems from the most elementary defence of human rights. we cannot afford to slow down in solidarity with the women in texas and other parts of the world affected by this kind of fundamentalism.
madam president, 60,000 women die every year worldwide from complications associated with illegal abortions. that's what we're talking about. the new texas abortion law, which a federal judge blocked yesterday at the request of the justice department and president biden, has denied women access to medical, legal, insurance procedures and, worse, this law encourages shocking social policing, rewarding whistleblowers of illegal abortions with monetary rewards of up to $10,000. it's creepy. everyone involved can be charged: the doctor who performs the abortion, the driver who transports the woman and the clinic, of course. what's going on in texas is a human rights outrage. we are not anti-american, mr. deputy, quite the contrary, we are in solidarity with all american women in texas, as we are with the brazilian women, the peruvian women and many other women in the world, always, until we have a voice.
madam president, madam commissioner, i just wanted to leave this note: we are not going to be able to do that. a good strategy cannot be against farmers, it is not the lobbyists, it is those who implement it. a good strategy cannot ignore the science, however hidden it may have been. it's doomed to failure. a good strategy, which we all want, because we who believe in environmental practices, this is not ideological, it is not left or right, we all want it, farmers want it, but it has to be based on science, it has to have its agents to be able to use it. this report ignores the science, ignores the application, ignores the impact studies. so we are going to approve a report and then ask the commission to submit the impact studies? in any member state, if a government were to put this to parliament, of course parliament would say to it: 'no, go home, rethink the strategy and then we are here to discuss it'. that is what i was suggesting, commissioner. tell your colleagues, mr timmermans and the commissioner for agriculture, to rethink the strategy and we will be here to [...]. (the speaker does not finish the sentence.)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in order for the farm to fork strategy to achieve its objectives, it must be consistent with the other policies of the union, all of them: agricultural, trade, biodiversity, etc., which is not the case at present. we have the theoretically key tool, the cap, but we missed an opportunity with the last revision that is not aligned with the goals of the green deal. we still need to apply the principles of 'farm to fork' to fisheries policy, with the european code of conduct for food chain leaders, and to go beyond voluntary measures. as regards the union's trade policy, we also want consistency in the import and export of foodstuffs, chemicals and gmos and we must send a very clear signal to promote the phasing out of highly dangerous pesticides worldwide. finally, the commission must ensure that free trade agreements create sustainable and fair food systems. if we do not act consistently, this strategy will be ineffective and we will pay dearly for mistakes which this parliament can still correct.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all i want to thank you all for a very wide-ranging discussion, a discussion that enabled me to hear many aspects and touched on many aspects of the farm to fork strategy, and a discussion that also gave me a sense of the support in the direction that we need to move, but also the concerns. and i was listening very carefully and i will try to address as many of the comments that i heard, although i think i won’t be able to address them all, so i will make an effort. first of all, i just want to say that the targets announced in the farm to fork strategy express our political commitment – i have been saying this from the beginning – and our level of ambition and are set always on the basis of the latest available evidence. i heard the concerns of several meps, of mep de castro, meps aguilera, kuźmiuk, decerle, on the issue to do with the impact assessments. this came up several times. i’m sorry if i haven’t mentioned all the meps that mentioned this. i want to be absolutely clear on this. impact assessments are foreseen for all the major legislative initiatives announced in the farm to fork strategy. and i have repeated this a number of times, and i would really look forward to discussing these with you once they proceed. so this needs to be absolutely clear. there were also several meps – mep lins, mep dorfmann, mep schneider and others – who spoke about why it took so long to publish the jrc study. now the jrc study is not an impact assessment of the farm to fork or the biodiversity strategies. in fact, it explicitly states that it has limitations in the modelling used. for example, it includes only some of the objectives and the actions listed in the two strategies. it was published as soon as possible, but when it became clear that these gaps could not be overcome quickly and that it would take too much time before the models could be improved to address these shortcomings, we decided that the study should be published without further delay because this would enable a discussion with the scientific community in order to improve our modelling capacity, and to be able to better address the critical consumer side of the market. now, at no point have any of us that have stood here – and i have found myself here several times – ever claimed that this transition would be without costs and without the need of adaptation. and of course, the essential question is how we absorb these costs. mep lins and mep dorfmann raised that. and this is why it’s so important that we need to ensure an ambitious implementation of the new cap and put the measures set out in the farm to fork strategy to mitigate risks. i heard all your concerns very carefully and we need the support and to make the most out of the cap and the nextgeneration funds and any other investment at national level in order to support our farmers. it’s very important for the member states to come forward with this and to make this a win-win situation. and overall, the cap strategic plans will present how each member state will achieve the nine specific objectives related to the environment, climate and social dimensions of sustainability. so the cap strategic plans are going to be key in promoting sustainable practices on farms. mep mélin, and i don’t want to let this go because it was almost stated as a fact, mentioned the issue to do with nutri score. at this stage, i’ve said this before, no choice has been made on a future eu harmonised front-of-pack scheme. the choice is going to be based again on a thorough impact assessment, extensive stakeholder consultation and scientific advice, and any proposed scheme needs to be science- and evidence-based. and this is why we have already requested scientific advice from the european food and safety authority (efsa) and the scientific literature review from the jrc. mep sardone and mélin also talked about penalising the mediterranean diets and other products of a healthy diet. we are very aware of the specificities of some agricultural food products and let me assure you that these elements are going to be taken fully into account in our assessment. and i want to touch on what mep schneider said because she spoke about education and this is so important. this is the importance of consumer education, and we need to use front-of-pack nutrition labelling as a useful tool in helping consumers make informed and healthy choices. we need to raise awareness and communication of education in order to help and we will continue to provide financial and administrative support to member states for promoting healthy lifestyles and eating habits. several meps raised the issue to do with a level playing field between third countries and eu producers. yes, and we are deploying all efforts to establish partnerships to move towards sustainable food systems globally so that eu farmers are not disadvantaged compared to third country producers. and we are working on this and i could give examples, but i think i have already gone over my time. and antimicrobial resistance or amr – amr is a huge issue. i call it the silent pandemic. it has become even more apparent with this pandemic of covid-19 that we are going through, and what i can assure you is that – and it was, i think mep polfjärd and chahim – is that we’re going to make every effort to promote a one health approach that protects everyone. addressing amrs through one health continues to be my priority, and we will continue to implement our 2017 action plan against amr. we need to set ambitious amr targets on the farm to fork, and these will be supported by the veterinary medicine regulation. and last but not least, mep guteland raised the issue to do with animal welfare, an issue very close to many of our hearts, and we are proceeding forward with an impact assessment, which has already been launched, on the end the cage age initiative, and we will be taking into account all stakeholders and listening to everyone before we move ahead. and i want to end by saying this: we need to move forward together. we need to be ambitious, we need to be inspired. but most of all, we need to be inclusive and in order to make farm to fork a reality it needs to benefit the consumers, it needs to benefit the farmers, it needs to benefit the producers, and it needs to benefit the environment. and by being inclusive, by talking – and i’m going to always be available to discuss again and again because i heard your concerns – by doing this, i believe that we can move forward and set the eu on the path to a sustainable future.
rapporteur. – madam president, no action is no option. as the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) and the intergovernmental science—policy platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services (ipbes) have forewarned, if we do not take action now to halt the climate crisis and the loss of biodiversity, this will undoubtedly lead to higher food prices and less food security worldwide. if we want the farm to fork strategy to succeed, the eu must be willing to face up to these challenges and resist pressure from corporate interests to carry on with business as usual. the multinationals, who dominate the seed and pesticides market with manipulated, toxic—dependent products, won’t profit from a change to a toxic-free, resilient form of agriculture. but the farmers, the ecosystems and the consumers will benefit from this transition. those who dominate the food and drink industry, who sell us ultra-processed food and soft drinks, high in sugar, salt and fat, won’t profit from the change to a more healthy food environment, fair and true pricing and crystal-clear labelling. but the farmers, the ecosystems and the consumers will benefit from this transition. those who make profits from confining millions of sentient animals in cramped cages, hauling them hundreds of kilometres to be brutally slaughtered, don’t profit from changes to a more plant-based, healthy diet and crucial changes in animal-welfare protections. but the animals, the caring farmers, the climate, our ecosystems and the consumers will certainly benefit from this transition. we have to listen to science and common sense. we will continue our fight for sustainable food systems, animal rights and animal welfare, healthy diets and a resilient future for farmers. and tomorrow, in the vote on our report, we have a great opportunity to start this journey.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. food is essential for our survival, for our health, for our well-being. food is not only energy, it is also pleasure - especially if it is of high quality. we now have a strategy, and that strategy must - commissioner, you said it - be translated into law. and as soon as we get proposals for that, we expect a proper impact assessment. i also think, after listening to the debate here, that we have not again discussed the strategy 'from the court to the table'. we talked about the court. we always get stuck in farming. we're not talking about the responsibility of industry; we're not talking about the responsibility of commerce. we don't talk much about customer responsibility. if the strategy is called 'from the court to the table', then we should be talking about 'from the court to the table' and not just 'from the court'. we must also stop talking badly about agriculture and farmers on this continent. yes, there are things that need to be improved. but there are also hundreds of thousands of farmers who do their jobs well every day, who know how to produce food and do it sustainably. because i can guarantee you: farmers are the first to think sustainably and to ensure that they pass on their land to the next generation in an orderly way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we do not come up with this know-how, which i sometimes hear in this house, but simply try to go a new way with farmers, then we will ultimately succeed. we will then also encourage young people to take up farming. and if we don't, then everything we do here is a waste of love anyway.
in writing. i agree that the agricultural sector needs to contribute to the union's desire to better protect the environment and ensure a healthier life for all citizens. agriculture has an important role to play, from the quality of food to reducing the amount of pollutants released into the environment. but i don't agree with sacrificing entire industries, firms or jobs to achieve these goals. i cannot support an own-initiative report, such as the 'farm to consumer' report, which imposes numerous restrictions on farmers without having serious studies to identify the effects of these measures and, on this basis, to propose real and appropriate solutions. we already have an energy crisis, largely caused by the unrealism of the "get ready for 55" package. i'm sure no one wants to have a food crisis caused by imposing environmental restrictions without serious consideration. we cannot impose the obligation to reduce pesticides without clear deadlines and transitional periods, we cannot reserve at least 10% of the agricultural area for a highly diverse landscape without compensatory measures, we cannot abruptly reduce the number of livestock farms without ensuring the stability of the supply of the european market.
in writing. this strategy presents an opportunity to ensure food security and to improve lifestyles. as such, we argue that it should ensure: food sovereignty, i.e. the right of states to determine their own food and agricultural systems and the right to produce and consume healthy and culturally appropriate food, recognising food sovereignty as a constitutional right of peoples; the defence of local production and the shortening of production-consumption cycles, as well as the reversal of the liberalisation and deregulation of world trade; the political decision to guarantee small and medium-sized farmers a decent and stable income and their effective participation in an agro-ecological transition; agro-ecological and localised production by small and medium-sized farmers, which respects food and coexists with the natural environment, not using harmful pesticides and chemical fertilizers; the defence of small and family farming and agriculture as using resources in the most balanced way, either through a broad diversification of production or by having a local consumer, even if the average producer is a local consumer, because the potential of the products is fixed. this strategy lacks these essential prerequisites for the implementation of some of its proclaimed principles.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to congratulate lina gálvez muñoz for this very balanced report, highlighting the new challenges in the employment and social area. the new reality we faced during the last year and a half brought a number of new employment arrangements. home offices became part of everyday life for millions of people. it caused not only technical issues and very important income problems for many workers, but also negatively influenced the already unstable work—life balance. it also again challenged the gender equality issue and, of course, hit the most vulnerable. therefore, i very much appreciate the mainstreaming, equal opportunities and non—discrimination policies in the report. an important part of it is the correspondence with the anti-poverty strategy and the eu framework for national homelessness strategies with the target to end homelessness by 2030. the report also calls for effective work-life balance policies in order to further safeguard people’s private and family lives, which have now become an essential point since many important new reality challenges could not have been foreseen in the 2019 work—life balance directive that i was rapporteur for. in general, we would certainly prefer to have a stronger text on the 2021 employment and social policies, but we hope tomorrow’s vote will make it as ambitious as possible.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i am convinced that the fight against poverty, and especially child poverty, can only be successful with the combined support of families. hungary has achieved that energy poverty is not generalised by reducing the previously introduced recession. he also was very active in promoting family tax relief, personal income tax refunds, free textbooks, and free meals for preschool and school. it's been supporting families to renovate their homes, it's been supporting and providing for young people, young married couples to have babies, and i could go on and on. the annual report to the european parliament last year was prepared by the leftist klára dobrev, and it was full of wishes that had no financial cover. this could only be achieved by raising taxes and breaking the financial independence of the member states. i am pleased that the current report is much more balanced, but i still lack the insight that an economy based on the integrity of work and the support of families can provide a stable future for all of us.
madam president, we refuse to allow france to become an economic desert. but that's what our country is becoming. lack of investment in transport, medical deserts and brain drain are the dramatic consequences of a general impoverishment. at the moment, my countrymen are panicking about the skyrocketing cost of energy. fuel prices have gone up 40% in six months. this increase will push millions of our citizens into poverty and worsen the situation of those already in poverty. before the crisis, my region of the grand est was already the region in france most affected by energy poverty. in 2015, one in four households reported having great difficulty paying for their heating. by depriving us of the leverage to act, the european commission is helping to stifle our economy. worse, the green pact will plunge the french into the red. we don't want your solutions. they contribute to accentuate our problems. the national rally will never stop fighting for france to take back control of its destiny by proposing real solutions.
madam president, the guidelines for social and employment policies which have been issued by the european union do not solve the problems facing workers and the poor: poverty, unemployment, precariousness, low wages and high cost of living. on the contrary, these same policies and guidelines have sought to weaken the public response to the problems of the people, the workers and the real economy. they have tried to wipe out universal access to quality public services, collective bargaining and contracting, and to reduce workers' rights and guarantees. it is now 11 years since the european semester was launched and the problems persist or have even become more acute. parliament is passing resolutions which, while containing legitimate concerns, do not put their finger on the wound. the european semester is being whitewashed, given a social and ecological cloak in an attempt to preserve an instrument which has already proved to be a weapon against social progress. what is required is the repeal of this instrument which deliberately attacks the democratic decisions of the peoples of the member states and which every year demonstrates its blackmailing and manipulative character.
madam president, commissioner, there have been major changes since the last report on employment and social policies in the euro area. the social summit in porto in may culminated in a commitment to the implementation of the european pillar of social rights. in the discourse, the agreed targets and mechanisms everything has changed, but now the moment of truth is approaching, the time to start implementing the commitments and investments of the recovery and resilience mechanism, the time to check whether the social objectives embedded in the economic and budgetary planning of the union will actually improve people's lives. we cannot lose the momentum that has animated the response to the pandemic crisis, let alone go back to the old austerity practices. if we fail now, we may not have another chance to build a europe with all and for all. as this report shows, the change under way cannot be merely cyclical, it must culminate in a reconfiguration of the european project.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, thank you to the rapporteur for this report for presenting a very clear position of parliament on a public health problem which has been going on for decades, which has killed tens of thousands of people in europe alone and which continues in all kinds of buildings in our cities, in offices, in apartments, in schools, in concert halls, even in hospitals. the removal of asbestos from all these buildings has been very slow, very inefficient and dangerous for the people who continue to use it during the removal operations. for example, in my country, in many schools, asbestos removal was done on weekends, exposing the children who attended them to this process, and the workers who work in asbestos removal are also often very poorly protected. i therefore think that this report is very important because it ensures a systematic policy of rapid asbestos removal which also protects those who will be working on this priority.
in writing. the position of the polish government and judicial institutions puts the eu in an unprecedented legal, but also existential, dilemma. if implemented in poland, judicial decisions such as the constitutional court's judgment of 7 october will undermine the very foundations of the european project, starting with the treaties, whose ratification presupposes full compliance by the member states. the eu cannot therefore be lukewarm in its response to what is no longer a mere provocation aimed at reaping internal political dividends, but an explicit challenge to european law as a whole and its primacy over national legal systems. if this red line is crossed, the absence of consequences will open the door to discretion and delegitimization of the eu legal order and the european institutions. in view of this, there is no alternative but not to use the recently approved 'conditionality mechanism', in addition to the procedures provided for in the treaties for situations that call into question the rule of law, with the scruple to safeguard the interests of polish citizens, workers and citizens, who should not be punished by the authoritarian misdeeds of their rulers.
madam president, madam minister, mr commissioner, in the debate on the 2022 budget we have two fundamental points: the fulfilment of the commitments made in the 21-27 multiannual budget, on the expenditure side and the revenue side, including respect for the timetable for the new own resources, and the contribution of the budget to the post-covid recovery and the creation of an economic and social environment that supports the internal and external ambitions of the european union. economic recovery is largely based on nextgenerationeu. but, commissioner, the european programmes which give priority to the european dimension, managed, from the outset, by the commission, are also the instruments of excellence for economic recovery, economic recovery which is to be innovative, with a view to a carbon-neutral economy based on a just, green and digital transition. without secondary responsibility for the member states, this effort is of course the responsibility of the european commission.
madam president, mr high representative, tunisia has been a strategic partner in the southern neighbourhood policy. the situation in the country, and i am not talking only about the political situation, but also the economic, social and health situation, worries us. president saïed suspended parliament, dismissed the prime minister, lifted the immunity of mps, and declared a state of emergency to deal with the crisis the country is going through. but all this has called into question the basic principles of the functioning of any democratic system and the period of exception has gone on for too long. it is essential and urgent to define a timetable for restoring constitutional order: the marking of legislative elections. tunisia must once again be an example of the arab spring and the european union must do everything possible to support the restoration of democracy in tunisia.
mr president, the strengthening of political relations and cooperation between the european union and taiwan is of the utmost importance. apart from the examples of tibet, hong kong and macau, we have recently seen further demonstrations of the arrogance of the chinese government with the recent incursions of chinese military aircraft into taiwanese airspace. more than intimidation, this is a tremendous provocation, a clear violation of taiwan's air defense identification zone. the near doubling of the number of incursions into the air defense zone in the space of a year and the increasing military presence in the south china sea are evidence of beijing's growing aggressiveness. we cannot tolerate this kind of action on a territory which shares with us the values of respect for democracy, human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. we must be clear if we are to play a role in maintaining stability and peace in the indo-pacific. taiwan is a key partner for a rules-based order in the region. china's disruptive and provocative actions cannot go unanswered.
madam president, commissioner, mr minister, the right to a healthy environment has recently been recognised by the united nations human rights council, but here in the european union we have to do more. this right must be enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. the link between the environment and human and animal health has long been recognised in the single health perspective for which we have worked so hard to be included in a transversal way in european policies. the influence of the environment on our health is undeniable, whether through local determinants such as air and water quality, as well as exposure to harmful agents, or due to climate change, natural disasters, which particularly affect communities in the most vulnerable territories, such as the outermost regions. only by protecting our health and our environment holistically will we be able to ensure the survival of our planet and our biodiversity.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, no one, absolutely no one, no other economic power has done as much as we have in the fight against climate change. and it must be said and repeated without fear: we are the global leaders in setting goals, but also in translating those goals into concrete, legislative changes. the next decade, with the legislative initiatives running in this parliament, will be the decade of the shift to a new paradigm of sustainability. europeans, and in particular the younger generations, are no longer prepared to tolerate the continued abuse of the planet and its biodiversity. but also for this reason, also in their claim we must be able to represent them properly. it is no longer enough to do our jobs well and have a society that develops in a sustainable way. we must also put pressure on other countries, and in particular those that pollute the most, to do so, to reduce their emissions quickly. we need strong and effective leadership, leadership that has the courage to say that we, europe, are leading, but also that demands that others do their part, that has the courage to say that we do our part and others do not, and that, for example, china continues to invest massively in new coal-fired power stations, undermining the work and effort done by others. but also that society and environmental organizations have the courage to say so and to direct their action also to other regions of the globe where little or very little is done. for our part, here in the european parliament, we are going to glasgow with a strong, comprehensive and ambitious position. i want, and i hope, that the commission and the council will pursue similar ambitions on key issues such as nationally determined targets and the mobilisation of funding not only for climate change mitigation but also for adaptation. how can we build a better world if we do not take care of the home that is everyone's?
in writing. the united nations climate change conference in glasgow, uk (cop 26), to be held from 31 october to 12 november, has the potential to be one of the most significant moments in the history of our fight against climate change. the impact of cop 15, which generated the paris agreement, is well known, but this next conference will aim to move to the implementation phase. to do that, we need more commitment and commitment in this fight and, in particular, in reducing emissions. the other states should also make ambitious nationally determined contributions to the paris agreement's temperature target, which is the only one that will ensure the survival of our planet and future generations. commitments to finance climate change mitigation and adaptation measures should also be stepped up, with particular consideration to be given to low- and middle-income countries that are most vulnerable to the adverse impacts of climate change. only through collective and global efforts will we be able to achieve the decarbonisation of the economy that is intended to be achieved with the current climate and energy transition, with a view to climate neutrality by 2050.
the european union has demonstrated its commitment to combating climate change. whether with ambitious emission reduction targets or with european funds allocated to this priority. but measuring the success of the green transition requires more criteria. first, social inclusion, which is the key to the future of europe. we want a just transition that leaves no one behind. we don't have to choose between taking care of the planet and taking care of people. we want both. secondly, the international membership. this is a fight of all, for all. europe can lead by example, but it cannot do it alone. we must hold all countries, all actors, to account. the cop26 in glasgow is therefore a key moment for coordination and cooperation. we hope it is also a moment of commitment and change.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the european commission has always been very quick to prosecute all member states that implement budgetary policies, public policies, social policies that violate rules of economic governance. but it is curious to note that when it comes to regulating the criminality of the financial system, tax evasion, the hare turns into the turtle. and that is why we have so many member states, like my own, that have not yet transposed money laundering legislation; that is why we continue to have gold visas, this instrument in the service of financial crime, in several member states, including once again my own; and that despite all the declarations of intent by the european commission, we still have a list of non-cooperative offshore companies, which is absolutely ridiculous and shows that we are not just talking about slowness. in the case of the protection of offshore companies which conceal the route through which money is laundered, the european commission is not only slow, it is actively complicit.
mr president, money laundering is a particularly serious and complex crime. not fighting it is not just attacking the concrete operations, but it is cutting off the financial flow that feeds terrorism, organised crime and networks of trafficking in people, drugs or arms. the european ambition is not justified here simply by the need to recover 1% of the european gdp that is lost. it is motivated above all by the urgency of stopping crimes that attack our values, our core values. the commission's proposals are moving in the right direction, but we need to go further and for that we need the commitment of national governments. we are discussing reform when the current rules are not properly transposed or applied, as has been the case in portugal. a new regulation is a step forward if it strengthens financial market obligations without undermining the competitiveness of firms. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the fight against money laundering requires ambition and realism on the part of all of us. this is not a mere question of law, it is an imperative of the rule of law.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the oecd agreement on taxation of multinationals is a fraud based on two lies. the first is that multinational companies will be taxed at 15%. that's not gonna happen. the first pillar provides that the first 10 percent of profit margin is exempt, which means that some of the most profitable multinational companies on the planet will pay not 15, not 10, not 5, but 0 percent, and the second pillar has been thrown out for ten years, which is to say, for the calendar, politically speaking. the second lie is that the revenue will be paid in the countries where the economic activity takes place, one of the fundamental principles of the oecd and which is also not respected in this proposal. the share that will be distributed to the countries that are entitled to it corresponds to a small part of the taxed income, which will deepen the inequalities between the developed and the underdeveloped world and between the countries that promote tax evasion and those that want to combat it.
mr president, the fight against tax evasion and the use of tax havens is on the agenda and rightly so. the agreement which the oecd is preparing to conclude at the rome summit is a strong political signal and the european union cannot fail to play a leading role, but the political leadership required must be matched by legislative commitment. if day zero is to celebrate the agreement, day one has to be to work and to follow through on what is agreed. and here again, we need the commitment of the states. if fiscal sovereignty is inevitable, cooperation is inevitable. profit-sharing and aggressive tax planning seriously damage the national budgets of countries where many large companies operate. the two pillars of the agreement want to ensure that profits are taxed where they are generated and that there is a minimum tax rate of 15%. these are structural changes which will require ambition, realism and competence, especially in european capitals. the biggest obstacles sometimes lie in the details, and the changes we want must protect above all the rights of our taxpayers, the competitiveness of our companies and the integrity of our internal market. to live up to the announced ambition, we must go beyond declarations. it's time to take action.
mr president, we have an instrument now in full operation which supports the recovery of european economies. the debt issuance operations have been a success. the money is already coming to the member states, but the creation of this fund required a commitment: repayment secured by new own resources, including a levy on digital. this agreement in the oecd is undoubtedly excellent news, unthinkable only a short time ago, but the obligation to repay the debt by new own resources from the union budget remains. future generations of european taxpayers must be safeguarded and it must be ensured that the payment is not made by the member states' contribution. we want a solution to the digital tax. it is for the commission to submit proposals to ensure that the total revenue originally estimated is generated and entered in the budget of the european union.
madam president, democracy, human rights and the rule of law are the foundations of the european union. the ambitious project that has ensured peace and prosperity since world war two. yet again, some member states are going back to policies from back then. closed borders to refugees played a part in the millions of lives lost in those dreadful times. that is why, having again push-backs in the external borders of the eu is so shocking. are those the values that the eu should stand for? are refugees less human? it is more than international law that is at stake. it is the sense of humanity itself. and, commissioner, you were clear on condemning push-backs today. i compliment you for that and i concur with you. the european institutions cannot tolerate such behaviour. what we must repeal are not the refugees at our borders, but the acts of those who do not treat them as human beings.
mr president, the western balkans summit was an opportunity to reaffirm the region’s european perspective. the timing was good: the relevance was enormous. however, the conclusions were, we have to say, disappointing. when it was time to give a clear signal to those countries that are on a positive path to entering the european union, the council failed on giving them that sign. albania and north macedonia are ready to start accession talks with the eu. it would have been an incentive for them and for the whole region to proceed with the necessary reforms. at the same time, it would deter the growing influence of some democratic powers in the region. the eu must reward the merit of those who did what they were supposed to. for those who did not, there must be a different outcome. the eu cannot bend the rules and, in particular, it must be strong on the rule of law criteria. the rule of law is not a formality; it’s a pillar of democracy. there can be no compromise on it. there is a well-established accession road to the eu, and the eu must stick to it, for better and for worse. only that way are we credible in the world.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i cannot agree with what you have said here about the western balkans summit. i'd love to share your perspective, but i can't. more financial envelopes have come out of this summit, more fine words have been said about the western balkans, but no real expectations have been expressed, no real plan has been drawn up for the integration of these countries into the european union. and this leads to tremendous fatigue among the populations. the people are getting tired of promises, they want to be full members of the european union. and this cannot remain in limbo with regard to countries which were asked to make all the changes and some more, all the reforms and some more, under very difficult circumstances, and then, when we get to the end, we all recognize that macedonia and albania have met the set targets for the first intergovernmental conference to be scheduled, and the first intergovernmental conference is being postponed, postponed, postponed. i am well aware that there are problems, that there are problems created by the relationship between macedonia and bulgaria, but a solution must be found to these problems. we must set targets for this solution and we must not delay the whole process too long, because it cannot be delayed indefinitely. and what i ask of you, mr minister, with all due common sense, because i know that your role is not easy either, that the conciliation is a conciliation of 27, what i ask of you, mr minister, is very clearly this: it is a date for the first intergovernmental conference, period! and a clear, strict, precise date. that is all i ask of you, mr minister, and i ask you to make the necessary effort because we are taking serious risks. we have a population that is frankly pro-european, and we risk losing that will, losing that identity, and having other geostrategic actors, like russia, china and turkey, occupy the political space that we are not able to occupy.
madam president, the lukashenko regime stepped over every line of human decency. it was not enough for lukashenko to violate the democratic values and the human rights of his own people, he also had go to find third-country nationals to violate their rights as well. with the sole purpose of serving the deplorable objectives of his corrupt regime, lukashenko does not hesitate in using human beings as pawns, exposing them to humiliation, suffering and even death. not only must lukashenko’s tactic be denounced, but the eu should explore every possible avenue to sanction those responsible for the organised smuggling of migrants, and those that continue assuring the survival of this despicable regime. however, when we would expect a humanitarian approach from the polish authorities towards the migrants that are being instrumentalised, what we see is a profoundly negative behaviour. the polish government is disregarding human rights, not allowing people suffering to have access to medical assistance or to food goes against everything the eu stands for. the polish authorities that chose to confront the eu rules in so many fundamental aspects are just adding up to that account. they are deliberately violating human rights, and we all know that it also violates several international conventions. we must stand strong about our european values when we want to speak loud and be heard by those that are using human beings as pawns in a cold-hearted game that we are witnessing. that is our message to belarus, but that is also a message for us here in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in favour of the dissemination of knowledge, the mobility of students and the recognition of diplomas. but i also want to say that education, besides this informative character, which means besides imparting knowledge, has its formative character which shapes young people and their values and their identity. we often see attempts by some political forces on the left to impose their worldview on other countries and their children and all young people. in doing so, they disregard the right of nations to their own value systems and the right of parents to decide how their children are to be brought up. values are extremely important in building young people, and those values are also associated with better educational outcomes. so let's respect diversity, spread knowledge and help young people develop their values to grow into mature and constructive and happy people. thank you very much.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe needs a common education policy to reduce the gaps between member states and to ensure that all children have access to quality education. the pandemic has shown that, in the face of common challenges, a united response is needed. unfortunately, the lack of european mechanisms has left millions of pupils without access to education, as is currently the case for many children in romania, where 40% of schools are still closed. the european union must intervene when the right to education is not respected. that is why we urgently need a european area of education, to make europe a leader in education, but also a space where studies are recognised, teachers are supported, social inequalities are corrected and social partners are respected. this would create the conditions for a european education plan and a dedicated european budget to ensure additional investment in skills development. that's why i think it's time to put education first on the european agenda.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. education and culture are europe's most important resources and the guarantee of its competitiveness. it is therefore important that member states provide quality and sustainable education and training that is accessible to all, and the european education area programme is an important help in this regard. everyone has the right to education. this is the basis of social cohesion. education spending is an investment in our future and should be a priority for member states. the european education area can provide more opportunities, mobility and international experience, while respecting the competences of the member states in the field of education policy. the eot is important for higher education vocational training, for university cooperation, for the recognition of diplomas and qualifications. the hungarian higher education model change, which aims to improve the competitiveness of universities and increase their funding, can serve as a good example, as it seeks to create a more predictable operating environment, to provide students with a better quality education. the main objective is to make universities central to research and development and innovation, and to increase the level of knowledge of foreign languages. it is essential to pay attention to the teaching of national minority and regional languages in the context of the eot, as this is also part of equal opportunities.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs šojdrová on her comprehensive report. i shall focus on the need to strengthen the teaching of european integration in schools. to this end, i think it is particularly useful to include in the curricula of secondary or upper secondary education a specific subject on the european union covering the background, objectives and functioning of the union's institutions. the council of may 2018 already approved recommendations along these lines, which i have been advocating for many years. in my country, spain, there are regions where this european subject is already a reality. for example, in the community of madrid pupils have the option of studying a subject on the european union in the third and/or fourth year of compulsory secondary education. in galicia too, pupils can study a subject on european values. to value something, you need to know it. i therefore believe that it is appropriate to introduce this subject in education programmes in order to give citizens a better understanding of the process of european integration. the erasmus experience is very useful, but i think it is also necessary to encourage young people to have a better knowledge of the european union and its institutions.
mr president, i would also like to begin by thanking my colleague mrs šojdra. in general, access to education is covered by our highest document, the charter of human rights of the european union, and education is a significant value of the european union. in general, investing in people always pays off, let alone in education. and i think that an educated person is less able to control themselves, to resist misinformation. simply an educated person is our imaginary weapon, and that's why i support this holistic approach, of course, the lifelong learning approach, the fight against misinformation that i've already talked about. let's all work together on the value of education. if we can't even agree on that value, then i wonder what we're left with. i wholeheartedly support this report and thank you again for your attention.
madam president, we reject any tendency to commercialise knowledge, education and research and we oppose the vision that emanates from the policies of the european union. as in the conception of the so-called european higher education area or the bologna process, it is waving at concepts such as mobility, lifelong learning, the recognition of skills, qualifications, diplomas and degrees, concealing that this process limits access to education, turns it into a commodity, clusters it into blocks that are more easily privatizable, making it difficult for those with less economic conditions to access education. we believe that cooperation between member states is necessary, but we must never forget that it is the responsibility of each country to educate its citizens, and that it is its responsibility to guarantee universal and free public access, which meets the needs of society and its development and not the interests of the large economic groups. education is a right for all, not a privilege for the few.
mr president, commissioner, all europeans must have access to the latest generation of covid-19 treatments. unfortunately, today that is not happening. every day, hundreds of romanians die in hospitals in the absence of adequate treatment. this situation can't go on. the european union must intervene where such problems exist. the european approval of new medicines, including those based on monoclonal antibodies, is a good solution and creates the conditions for saving many lives. that is why i propose that we jointly purchase these treatments at european level, as we have done for the vaccine. this will ensure that all europeans have access to these treatments in a fair and affordable way. let's show the human face of europe and make this european procurement procedure for all state-of-the-art treatments fast!
mr. chairman, colleagues, in order to maintain balance and to spoil the impression of both the praise in the last two debates, i cannot help but criticize the behaviour in this room today in the talks, in the debate on the situation on the polish-belarusian border. what's happening there is not a migrant crisis. what's happening there is not a humanitarian crisis. what's going on there is a security crisis. two regimes are organizing and directing people to the external border of the european union in order to violate it and to threaten the security of the european union. unfortunately, the people in this room didn't understand that, and instead, they got into a domestic political battle. they rushed to clean up their own accounts and to seek some small domestic political gain by criticizing the polish government. instead of doing that, they should have supported him and i continue to argue that we should support the polish government, which is protecting the borders of its country and the european union in the same way that the bulgarian government, the greek government, the italian government, the spanish government, no matter who is in power at the moment, were protecting them. there is no reason not to support these governments because they are protecting the borders of the european union.
mr president, the european union presented itself in glasgow at cop 26 with the false image of the climate champion. the approach to climate change, whether in the field of combating or adapting, is characterised by insufficient and inadequate measures, unrelated to genuine social justice objectives and with questionable environmental outcomes, based on market solutions such as emissions trading or green taxation, which have already revealed their ineffectiveness and perversity. the objective 55 package retains all the centrality of this type of approach. the closure of the matosinhos refinery in portugal is an example of the consequences of this path. production capacity is destroyed and emissions are limited to crossing the border, moving a few kilometres. we need another way. a path that involves public control of strategic sectors such as energy, the encouragement of local production and consumption, fair regulation of international trade, mobility policies that enhance public transport, a normative approach to emission reduction as opposed to a market approach. capitalism is not green.
madam president, commissioner, last week i was part of a parliamentary delegation to the special committee on artificial intelligence and we had the opportunity to discuss in depth technology cooperation with members, presidency services, the department of state and commerce, stakeholders and various think tanks. we have converged on the purpose of accelerating innovation. we even converge on the values we need to protect, in the name of a democratic model for the digital. but there is still a huge gap in the regulatory tools that we should use to do this, so that data is equally protected, or in the risk approach of ai. we therefore need to be open on both sides of the atlantic to building bridges and common solutions, which do not have to be exactly the same, but which, in the end, allow us, as the vice-president said, a digital space of trust.
in writing. the pharmaceutical strategy is one of the pillars of the european health union and seeks to ensure access to innovative medicines at affordable prices for patients; to address unmet medical needs, for example in the areas of antimicrobial resistance, cancer and rare diseases; to support the competitiveness, innovation and sustainability of the eu pharmaceutical industry and the development of high-quality, safe, effective and greener medicines; to strengthen crisis preparedness and response mechanisms and address security of supply; and to ensure a strong eu voice in the world by promoting a high level of quality, efficacy and safety of medicines. we aim, among other things, to: ensure that patients are at the centre of all policies; safeguard the public interest, particularly where there is public funding and incentives, in terms of accessibility, pricing of medicines, transparency and traceability of investments; establish fair pricing and reimbursement policies that do not compromise the sustainability of health systems; implement intellectual property policies that put public health first; and promote more joint public procurement. only then can we ensure that everyone has access to the medicines they need, regardless of their illness, age, location, or economic status.
madam president, for my country, the european union has already been a reference point in environmental law and has already been a factor in modernising some of the actions of the authorities in portugal in this area. however, this line of action of the european union has been gradually degraded. during this mandate we have submitted to the commission numerous complaints about various watercourses in portugal, rio ave, ribeira de travassos and others, which the commission knows constitute violations of the water framework directive, and we have not had any satisfactory response from the commission. the same applies to the attacks in the ria formosa nature park and the guadiana river basin, protected areas of community interest. the european union continues to have the floor, but it is taking less and less concrete action to protect these environmental rights and to enforce community law. it would be as much concerned as it is in other areas, such as labour law, where it has no competence, but it is putting pressure on the member states far beyond what the law allows it to do.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is an agreement for reform and not an agreement for a break. it's reform in the right way. it continues to look at agriculture from an economic point of view, it supports investment and it supports income, but it also looks at it from a social and environmental point of view. it is an agreement which encourages young farmers and points out new practices to them. the cap, the common agricultural policy, must continue to be an important policy of cohesion between the countryside and the city. you cannot help but look at farmers as the real agents of this change. but, commissioner, what a welcome, now in 2022 we will have a crucial year to see whether the secondary legislation that is coming, which is very important, does not throw out the window what has already entered the farmers' door. we must be very careful about that. the commission cannot afford such temptations and the member states must have great ambition in their strategic plans if farmers are to continue to have hope. and that is the ambition of the member states, and that is the ambition which i also expect from the next government in my country, portugal.
mr president, as we vote on this cap today, we must not lose sight of its main objective: supporting a fair standard of living for 10 million farmers, safeguarding a safe food supply for 450 million people, and sustaining healthy and vibrant rural communities. these are traditional goals of cap, but we’re also seeking to significantly to address our environmental challenges. this can only be done in an effective and practical way by involving farmers, who must be at the heart of driving this change. there is significant responsibility on member states in the development of their strategic plans. it’s vital that farmers have a major input into these, so that there’s major buy—in from farming. they have to be sensible and achievable and make a meaningful difference to the environment and to farm viability. they must provide a wide range of eco schemes that give farmers options to ensure that they can develop to deliver their environmental responsibility and also protect farm incomes and the multiplier that is in the economy, while also investing in the long—term future of the next generation of young farmers who will lead the way forward into the future. however, i firmly believe that we cannot deliver it solely through the cap. we need to look at other issues, such as carbon farming, how our lands can sequester carbon, how we can improve our biodiversity and increase our renewable energy sector for ever—increasing energy demands. while cap gives farmers certainty, it’s only one step and we need to ensure a viable future for farming.
mr president, commissioner, after three and a half years since the european commission presented its legislative proposals, we are finally voting today on the new common agricultural policy. i am aware that this new cap is not perfect, but i am also aware that this new cap guarantees the legal and financial security of our primary sector. it maintains the food production capacity of the european union, while ensuring that our farmers and herders do so on fair economic terms and respecting the environmental objectives of the green deal, while keeping in mind the social sustainability of our rural environment. i would like to stress that even if the cap is not perfect, i would like to appeal to the thousands of men and women who lay down their lives every day in the fields so that we can have basic foodstuffs of the highest quality in our supermarkets to understand that a cap is necessary. that is why my party, ciudadanos, will vote in favour.
i was taking my two daughters to school this morning and was looking at why some political groups and some members of the european parliament are in favour of this common agricultural policy. it is totally incomprehensible to me how one can vote for a common agricultural policy which directs most of its funds to those who do not need them - therefore 80% of direct payments will go to the richest 20% of households in agriculture - which does not preserve biodiversity, so it is actually against the prairie to prairie strategy, it is against the climate act and it continues to finance highly polluting industries such as intensive livestock farming. it is totally incomprehensible to me how anyone can vote in favour of this common agricultural policy, and i will in good conscience vote against it because i really want to preserve the planet, i want to preserve the guarantee of a future of biodiversity for my children and for all the people of this united europe, and therefore i will vote against this common agricultural policy.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i said it in october, and i repeat it here and now: it is unacceptable, it is a crime that must be assessed in the light of international standards. using human beings as weapons is a crime, it is another crime committed by the non-democratic authorities of belarus. earlier, with the diversion of a commercial plane just to arrest journalist and activist protasevich, belarus had already shown itself to be a lawless state. now, when it was thought that a new step was not possible, we have lukashenko encouraging the movement of migrants to the eu border, people in a terrible humanitarian situation. i am sure that we will not fail to find methods and mechanisms which can help these people and at the same time sanction, without any doubt, what is, and will certainly be, the last dictatorship in europe.
madam president, commissioner, this case forces us to talk about the traumatic history of the roma minority in europe, which is marked by racism, segregation and genocide. the roma continue to haunt the european consciousness and their integration poses enormous challenges. despite the substantial resources mobilised by the union in recent years, the conditions of these people are not improving. the reports that come to us from various parts of europe are a stain on our humanistic values. the policies to combat structural poverty in the roma community are not having any effect. the rejection and prejudice they face have not diminished. we must affirm in this area the absolute and untouchable respect for the human rights of all europeans. if we do not take account of the humanistic and democratic values which are at the heart of the european project, our union will no longer make sense. we must look for good examples, which there are, and replicate them. what we can't do is turn a blind eye to reality. the time has come to put the issue of the roma people at the top of the european agenda.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this ministerial conference cannot be a missed opportunity to strengthen the wto. the 12th world trade organisation (wto) must be the starting point for the modernisation of the wto so that it can play a role in responding to the global challenges of the 21st century, including climate change, sustainability and responding to future pandemics, while respecting the rights of all citizens. to do that, we need tangible results that show that multilateralism is the solution, that confirm that the return of the united states to the multilateral stage and the enormous commitment of the new director-general are not wasted. trade policy has been essential in this pandemic, but the application of exceptions and flexibilities can be improved now and in view of future pandemics. finally, commissioner, we hope that the european union will actively participate in the trips negotiations on a temporary derogation from the agreement on intellectual property rights to pave the way for the solution of the world vaccination problem.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, minister, commissioner, colleagues, 25 years after the civil war in which over 100 000 people lost their lives, bosnia and herzegovina is on the brink of collapse yet again. the bosnian serb leader dodik is threatening to withdraw republika srpska from bosnia and herzegovina’s institutions. this could mark a return to the violence of the ‘90s, a scenario which we don’t even want to consider. it does not help certainly that some european leaders like viktor orbán or janez janša are meeting or even paying visits to dodik in a sign of support for his nationalistic postulate. they are playing with fire, and this is unacceptable. the european union cannot remain silent. it must play a much stronger role and use all instruments at its disposal, commissioner, including pressure and even sanctions to preserve bosnia and herzegovina’s territorial integrity, unity and peace, and nurturing the western balkans’ hope for a peaceful and stable future in europe. we have long been waiting for that in the western balkans.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we often tend to undervalue what we have already achieved, the objectives we are achieving. but without for a moment reducing our ambition for the future, i think it is very important that we should be able to assess the path we have already taken. as a co-author of this parliament's resolution for the cop, i feel a particular responsibility not only for the establishment of the objectives we brought to glasgow but also for their achievement, and i do not think it is inappropriate to remind all the groups, but also the representatives of the commission and the council, that, while we still have a lot to do, we are also the economic bloc that has done the most and has worked the most for climate neutrality. the fact that our objectives are ambitious should not blind us to the effort and success achieved. we brought seven major goals to glasgow: the ambition to increase the nationally determined targets to get us closer to 1.5 degrees celsius; mobilizing resources for adaptation; the global carbon market agreement; fossil fuel subsidies; the methane agreement; halting deforestation; including all sectors in the effort to decarbonize in the national targets, namely aviation and shipping. of these seven objectives, six have been achieved, and i would say very important, and only the last has not been at least partially achieved. nothing would be so serious and so treacherous as to see that they had not been empty words. this is the time, the time to go from words to deeds, the time to implement the agreements signed, the time to ensure that we do our part.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has played a decisive role in the fight against the pandemic, in particular through the vaccination process. but the pandemic is not over yet, and it has shown us that the weapons we have will always be insufficient if they don't reach everyone. while in many countries we have already vaccinated with a third dose, there are many who are still waiting for a first one. we cannot accept this inequality. if the moral argument is not enough, let us remember that until we are all protected, no one is. we therefore need concrete solutions. we need a more ambitious global vaccination strategy that increases our contributions to covax, that member states donate excess vaccines and avoid unnecessary accumulations, and also that we temporarily lift the intellectual property rights of vaccines so that public health always comes first, and finally that we bring about the pandemic treaty.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for your presentation. it's very good that in 2020, for the first time, renewable energy has surpassed fossil fuel energy. but i think 2020 is not a baseline year, it's a pandemic year, and consumption has been disrupted somehow. at the same time, in 2021, we don't know yet where we stand on this comparison, but we know that prices have gone up, and you say they've gone up because of our reliance on fossil fuels, which in 2020 were used less. i think there's a contradiction here. the fit for 55 package was published, it was presented, a package that is extremely important for everyone, for all of europe. there's obviously a lot of energy required, so this package will create a very high energy demand. thank you for the answer you gave me, regarding the amount of energy in 2030, if this package is implemented. it is not very clear why this increase of only 10% compared to the consumption in 2020; it is, in my opinion, a small increase. at the same time, you say renewable energy will be 65 percent, in 2020 it was 22 percent, three times the increase, and i would like to see nuclear and gas in the next taxonomy delegated act.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i think it is important to say that it is extremely important that we discuss the status of the energy union in this parliament once a year to sort of take stock of this very important project. and of course, it is gratifying to see how renewable energy is for the first time overtaking fossil fuels as the most important source of energy in europe in 2020. on the other hand, it is a little sad to see the eu's increasing dependence on energy imports from outside. the energy union was designed to do the exact opposite, namely to make us independent and free of putin's gas and the oil of the middle east sheikhs. and how do we do that? we are doing this by expanding renewable energy even faster than we have been able to do so far. and we do that, of course, by being even better at saving energy than we've been able to do. what does it take? it requires permits to develop with solar and wind. we see how difficult it is to get the necessary permits for wind farms, whether on land or at sea, all over europe. we see how the member states are holding back when it comes to implementing what we have already agreed. the commission has already done so. we're gonna have to get better at that. and then we must finally ensure that we have a real internal market where electricity can also flow freely and across national borders. it doesn't today. that is how we can create a real energy union.
mr president, the european citizens are now experiencing the practical consequences of an energy policy inspired by absurd dogmas: deregulation of everything, privatisation of everything, dismantling of public monopolies... we're seeing the result. the rise in energy prices is hitting consumers hard. last night, the megawatt hour of electricity was trading at 300 euros in france, 309 in belgium, 280 in germany. two years ago, the average price in europe was eur 34. these absurd prices are also caused by a market based on an absurd rule. when demand is high and the cheaper sources of electricity such as hydro, wind and nuclear are no longer sufficient, gas is used. the gas, as you know, is 70 per cent higher, and we can see the practical consequences. for a frenchman, the bill has gone from 319 euros in 2007 to 501 euros today. the group of member states that last month brutally rejected calls for energy market reform will have to take responsibility for the tens of millions of europeans who are now living in poverty. so yes, we have to act. yeah, we need to clean up. yes, the electricity market in europe needs to be reformed.
the commission has already done so. the state of the energy union report does contain many good points. let us also show the positive side of our european energy balance. in glasgow, it became clear who was ahead in the rankings of countries for climate protection. almost all the countries here are european countries. in glasgow, it became clear who was really driving the paris climate agreement and who wanted to finance the global climate fund, who invented emissions trading and who wanted to create global climate clubs. so we europeans have no reason to hide our light under the bushel. no, we must continue our path of energy transition consistently. to do that, we need higher co2 targets. but also the honesty that we need much, much more primary energy for electrification than the commission advises. but we also need a taxonomy that invests not just in cheap champagne, but in a realistic energy transition, that is, in technologies that make the energy transition affordable and safe. there must be no discrimination here, either for new gas-fired power stations with a low hydrogen content or for new generations of nuclear power. this also means regulating the networks in such a way that they can build on the gas infrastructure. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the energy transition is in line with the paris guidelines, but without ideology, it is safe and affordable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think this report tells us that we are on the right track. it's showing us lights and shadows and we have to work on some critical elements. i will mention two of the critical elements. the first is the renewable energy issue. the production of renewable energy is increasing, and fortunately, commissioner, it will not increase at the rate needed to meet the 2030 targets. we need to know this. my country needs 40 new gigawatts of renewable energy. how is that possible in seven years, from now to 2030? there is a problem of slow implementation of the plants and of the extension of the existing ones. it is a problem that europe must also face, in order to speed up, to open dialogues with local authorities, in short to be able to go faster in the production of renewable energy. and then there's the issue of efficiency. there's a great, great potential that's not being used. companies say - i think of cooling large infrastructure, etc. - that there is potential in existing technologies, but it costs to introduce them. so we have to work to be upstream of technological innovation if we want to increase energy efficiency. finally, there is also the problem of the urgency of the union's transition. i'm thinking gas, which has already been recalled. we need to be more interventionist like europe in managing the gas crisis and the cost of the bills.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, clean energy research and innovation spending below 2010 levels, soaring prices, increased net imports, 31 million people in energy poverty: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the republic of moldova in the union programme for research and technological development. parliament has a lot of work to do in the coming months, approving the legislative proposals of the 'fit for 55' package, combining ambition and pragmatism. it will be important to work towards reducing dependence on third countries by diversifying supply and increasing storage, but above all by increasing the production of energy from renewable sources. only then will we achieve the energy autonomy on which our sovereignty depends. if we are to achieve these objectives, and we must, it will be crucial to solve once and for all the problem of the authorization procedures for the deployment of renewable energy. it is bureaucracy, not resources, that is the real obstacle in many parts of europe.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, according to the commission, the european union is dependent on energy imports by as much as 61%. that's the highest level in 30 years! this is particularly shocking given that germany is prepared to legalise the nord stream 2 pipeline and further tie europe to russian gas. how many billions does europe spend each year on imported energy? if that amount of money was invested in renewables every year, we would be more independent, greener and richer a long time ago. can you give us a specific date when we'll see the results of the work? we have been talking for years about the need to produce energy in the european union, but in reality we are becoming increasingly dependent on third countries.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the current energy crisis requires us to redefine our energy policy. and here's the situation: eu solidarity has been buried at the bottom of the baltic sea along with nord stream, rising prices for allowances and their speculative nature - it's about co2 emission allowances - are causing a decline in the competitiveness of european industry. as for the energy perspective proposed in the 'fit for 55' package, the deepening of energy poverty, which is already very large, will soon affect an estimated 80 million people. winter is coming, we have empty gas stores, which are the result of gas blackmail, which is not discussed in this house. and finally, a just transformation. the biggest costs of transformation will be borne by countries like poland. is it in the context of this just transition that the european commission is unlawfully blocking the cfp funds?
mr president, the sharp rise in energy prices is inseparable from the choices made by the european union. the consequences of liberalising and privatising the sector, of maintaining oligopolistic markets in which cartelised prices and methodologies guarantee astronomical profits, or of the creation and operation of the carbon market, are being felt by consumers, especially the most vulnerable. energy is a public good. public and democratic control over the energy sector is a fundamental requirement for ensuring the sustainability of the sector. in my country, the pego thermal power plant has recently been closed. the solution proposed is to import electricity from countries where it is also generated by coal. the process of decarbonisation cannot be done at the expense of energy sovereignty, of rising energy costs, of jobs, or when there is also no environmental gain, since emissions are transferred to another country. our solidarity with the 200 or so workers at the pego plant, for their struggle in defence of their rights and their jobs.
mr president, last month we experienced a low point in this parliament; we had to discuss the polish government questioning the primacy of eu law. let me stress that i do not want, and also do not expect, to have a similar plenary debate about slovenia in two years. but, we should have learned by now to read early warning signals. the crumbling of rule of law and democracy often starts with bigger or smaller attacks on the media, judiciary and vulnerable groups. that is why we should take the slovenian problems with the european public prosecutor’s office and the sta and prime minister janša’s ridiculous and personal attacks on individuals seriously. although solved partly and extremely late, we should not accept the downplaying of these issues. when dialogue is not sufficient, measures should follow. not after months, after hesitation by the commission, but swiftly. it will save time. i’m saying this because i’m on the side of the slovenian citizens. when political leaders anywhere in europe are not preserving the positions and the rights of their journalists, judges or minorities, the eu has to step in and support them as effectively as possible.
member of the commission. mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for your speeches in this debate on the state of the rule of law in slovenia. interinstitutional dialogue on the rule of law situation throughout the union is very important and i stand, as i said, at the full disposal of your parliament in this respect, whether in plenary or in committee. in our work in the commission on the rule of law, we apply the principle of non-regression, and, of course, we ask to develop different elements to promote the independence of the judiciary, but also to guarantee some principles, such as the primacy of eu law and the binding character of all the decisions of the court of justice in europe. it is the reason why we are organising a dialogue in the european institutions, but also in the member states, on the basis of the rule of law report. the goal is to improve the situation in all the member states. next year, as you know, we will include recommendations in our report. we also have direct contact with the member states to resolve concrete issues such as, in slovenia, the funding of the press agency and the appointment of the european delegate prosecutors. i have said that i had many contacts with the prime minister and the minister of justice in slovenia about these two problems to have the opportunity to improve the situation and again to solve those two issues. we continue to monitor the situation of the presidency, but now we have a five-year appointment of the two delegate prosecutors. so it is possible to work with a complete composition of the eppo, at least with delegate prosecutors in all the participating member states. i have said that it is, of course, a voluntary choice of all the member states to take part or not, but i have said to the non-participating member states that it will be important to think about their participation in order to be able to fight better, perhaps, against all the fraud and abuse concerning the use of the eu budget. to develop a real culture of the rule of law in the whole european union, i have also tried to organise visits to the member states to have discussions with parliaments, governments, judicial authorities, civil society, students or the press. it is very important to try to develop such a culture in all the member states. of course, i thought i should stress that we will continue to use all the instruments at the commission's disposal to protect and promote the rule of law. we are going to the european court of justice with infringement proceedings or requests for daily financial sanctions. we are also going to the council on the basis of article 7, and we will do the same, if necessary, on the basis of the new conditionality mechanism. but again, we give further priority to the dialogue, but we are using all the instruments at our disposal. in conclusion, i want to thank you in this parliament for your support in this ongoing work to promote the rule of law, because, again, what we want to achieve is a non-regression principle and to see in all the member states how it is possible to improve the situation concerning the rule of law.
the chairman of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to reassure you, as i did at the beginning, that the presidency and the council as a whole attach great importance to respect for the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights. the institutions of the european union and the member states share the responsibility to respect, protect and promote our common values, as enshrined in the treaties. the debate highlighted some shortcomings in the area of the rule of law in slovenia. let me address some of them. the reduction of resources for the judicial system was highlighted. the budget for the judicial system has been constantly increasing over the last years, and it is important that the budget for 2022 for individual institutions within the judicial system remains unchanged or has not been reduced compared to the previously agreed budgetary frameworks. the same shall apply for the financial year 2023. the government of the republic of slovenia has prioritised the financing of measures needed to combat the consequences of the pandemic and for investments in the preparation of the 2022 2023 budget. this is also reflected in the budget of the ministry of justice, which is also responsible for the investments necessary for the functioning of the judiciary, so that the increase in investment funds will also provide better working conditions for the judiciary, which the presidency welcomes. i repeat that on 8 november 2021 the government of the republic of slovenia and the slovak press agency concluded a public service financing contract, providing the agency with the appropriate financial means. slovenia is also aware of certain shortcomings in the efficiency of the justice system and of the challenges in the field of economic and financial crime. as the european commission's report has already stated, the judicial system has a lot of work to do here. a detailed analysis of the causes of the situation is currently being prepared and will be made public by the supreme court shortly. the appointment of prosecutors was also delayed. let me say that the department of justice is currently preparing amendments to national legislation that will help to optimise these procedures. the appointment of prosecutors is expected to be considered by the government shortly. as regards the european public prosecutor's office, the council will continue to monitor its activities closely and will provide it with all the necessary assistance. in doing so, it will continue to give priority to all matters relating to the european public prosecutor's office falling within the council's competence. i would like to reiterate what commissioner reynders also said in his introduction, namely that the slovenian government has fulfilled its obligation by proposing two candidates for the post of delegated prosecutor. the eppo shall thus operate as a full office. finally, i would like to highlight the world justice project rule of law index, where slovenia maintained 29th place out of 139 countries in the world in 2021. yet, 75 percent of the world's countries have made a worse start. the presidency is aware that the rule of law in slovenia has certain shortcomings and i can assure you here that one of the key priorities of the government of the republic of slovenia is to address the shortcomings in the judicial system that have not been addressed in thirty years of democratic processes in the republic of slovenia.
thank you very much, minister. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the december partsession. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. all epidemics must be protected by prevention, vaccination, and if necessary, by limitation. our european community is also being ravaged by a serious disease, or at least weakened to the limit: the virus of corrupt politicians building a mafia state. we know the virus's master: viktor orbán, who over many years has systematically built a system that drains eu resources, enriches his own oligarchic network and family with them, and systematically degrades european values. this virus has also infected slovenia, where the current leadership is building up its corrupt power through a kind of franchise system, adopting orban's tactics and practices. in slovenia, the european public prosecutor's office is deliberately obstructed, journalists are harassed and threatened, and critical voices are silenced. as with the coronavirus, we need a common and decisive response, as well as a common response to the corrupt political agendas that are infecting our european community like a cancerous tumor. the european commission has recently sent a letter to the hungarian government, as a last call before the launch of the rule of law mechanism, in which it raises specific objections to state corruption, including that of viktor orbán's family. it's a shame it's come to this. it's a shame that the hungarian government has come to this. political systems that go against the fundamental values of the european union and use european public money for personal growth can no longer be tolerated. the european union will either be a strong and clean community or it will not be.
the sitting was suspended and will resume at 8.30 p.m. with the commission's statement on the european action plan against rare diseases. (the sitting was suspended at 8.06 p.m.)
good evening, colleagues. the sitting is resumed. the next item is the debate on the commission statement on a european action plan against rare diseases (2021/2940(rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of parliament, i want to thank you for putting european action and cooperation on the agenda today on the issue to do with rare diseases, and i want to particularly convey my thanks to honourable members ries and bilbao barandica for this very important debate. for ourselves and for those of us who know the area of rare diseases, we can understand that, given the limited number of patients and the scarcity of relevant knowledge and expertise, eu action is even more important in rare diseases, and this is where there is real added value. that is why we have been active in this area for over 20 years. if i may just share with you, i have worked in the area of rare diseases with children, and i know the need to raise awareness on this, but i also know the loneliness faced by families when they have to deal with a child with a rare disease and not knowing where to turn. so it’s time we developed a wide range of activities to support the member states and eu level cooperation. the eu has really done a great deal over the last 20 years, and its response has focused on some key elements. first of all, promoting the development of national rare diseases plans and strategies, which need to be in place; establishing and supporting european reference networks (rfns), which are possibly one of the best examples of eu cooperation, action and support; supporting the definition and inventory of rare diseases, which broadens the knowledge base; providing incentives for the development of medicines for rare diseases; and empowering patient organisations. the eu orphan regulation has clearly stimulated research and development of medicines for rare diseases, but when we look at the numbers, we can see that more needs to be done, since 95% of rare diseases still do not have treatment, and orphan medicines are not accessible to patients equally in all member states. that is why, as part of the eu pharmaceutical strategy, an important report will be voted upon in this house today. we will review the current rules to foster innovation, especially where it is needed most, and to make medicines more available across the eu. the determination to ensure that all rare disease patients, children and adults, have access to the best knowledge, diagnosis and treatment is at the very core of our efforts. the european reference networks are key to achieving this goal. it’s a truly innovative system, a model of virtual healthcare and collaboration, bringing together the most specialised centres across the eu to speed up diagnosis, to improve standards of care and to generate knowledge for patients living with rare and complex diseases. their guiding principle is quite a simple one: that it is the knowledge that travels, not the patient. the patient doesn’t have to travel, bringing those who are rare together, and this is really important. funding is key, and the eu4health programme includes the european reference networks as one of its specific objectives and will contribute to further evolution of the system. i also want to take this opportunity to emphasise the substantial eu investment into research on rare diseases, with more than eur 1.8 million allocated to 320 multinational consortia. horizon europe, including the proposed european partnership on rare diseases, will continue to support this effort. early next year, i will be here in this plenary to present to you a proposal to launch a european health data space. a lack of data is a crucial challenge for rare diseases, and the european health data space will make it easier to gather data from all corners of the eu and to make it available to researchers working on innovative treatments. many rare disease patients also actively want to share their own data for research and development for this reason. the european health data space will make it much easier for them to do so. in 2022, we will conclude the evaluation of the cross-border healthcare directive, including its provisions on the cooperation on rare diseases and european reference networks. it will provide us with important evidence and inform our assessment of the current approach to rare diseases. there will be two additional processes that will inform that assessment. the evaluation of the third health programme, which funded key actions in the field of rare diseases, and the outcomes of the ‘rare 2030’ pilot project, which has been proposed by this house. we’re going to be building on all these collective lessons, and the conclusions will then be discussed in the steering group on promotion and prevention, and with all relevant stakeholders at the end of next year. if appropriate, we will revise our policy framework for rare diseases in 2023, in addition to the upcoming reform of legislation for medicines for those with rare diseases and for children at the end of next year. i’m a believer that we need to evaluate and where we need to change, to bring about change. honourable members, there are concrete plans that will improve our approach to rare diseases. i am really looking forward to hearing you today, to having the opportunity to discuss this with you, and to really bringing together all the expertise and knowledge. because working together with all the stakeholders – including patients, families, doctors and others – we can really bring tangible benefits to citizens. thank you very much, and i look forward to hearing your views.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. in the eu, we are almost 450 million people, but this varies greatly between member states. some member states have a population of over 80 million, others of half a million. and world-class care requires both resources, experience and specialist expertise. the ability of each member state to build up that expertise for the very rarest diseases is not easy. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we coordinate at eu level in order to help the smallest countries and those with the very rarest diseases. joint procurement can help to reduce prices and better ensure the availability of rare medicines, and joint resources can build a knowledge bank that reduces the time to the right diagnosis and to the right action. it shouldn't take five years to get the right diagnosis, and we need to find treatments for more than the six percent today who are getting proper, good treatment for rare diseases. i hope that the european commission will take up the court's conclusions and follow parliament's call to draw up a concrete action plan with clear objectives. we owe it to the 30 million people who already live with a rare disease.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, i am speaking to you tonight with this mother in mind, one of the many mothers i met yesterday morning in the european parliament. she works in the parliament's research department and her son has a very rare metabolic disease. so in her case, the diagnosis was made and it's a win. the treatment exists and it's very rare. as you said, commissioner, 95% of rare diseases are still untreated. it's after that that mom gets complicated. this belgian family had to move to germany to find the only specialist who could prescribe and administer this treatment. the priority today is therefore to move beyond the silos and to think about the scale of a life, that of the patients and their families. diagnosing, treating and facilitating access to care are one and the same and these patients, who are among the most vulnerable, have a right to them. this lack of coherence between european health policies was highlighted by rare 2030, a pilot project i launched in 2017 with several colleagues to imagine, together with researchers and patients, the policies of the future for rare diseases. this unprecedented two-year experiment was managed by your services, madam commissioner, and the diagnosis is clear: we need a european action plan to unify our policies and bring them coherence in the medium and long term. the planets are aligned; parliament is with you and the member states are with you. postponing the question to 2023 is in fact referring it to the next commission. and another belgian mother, isabelle, will conclude my speech for me: "there is no plan b", she told me, "there is no life b for a child who is fighting a rare disease". in other words, we must act now.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i think that the european health union is ready for an action plan on rare diseases. and as you know, i’m a strong advocate for rare diseases patients, especially the youngest concerned by them. about 75% of rare diseases affect children, and today paediatric cancers are unfortunately still the leading cause of death in children aged above one year, in europe. rare cancer patients often face numerous challenges, like the difficulty in accessing timely diagnosis and specialised health care services, adequate treatments or social services. in order to tackle this issue, we should have a more holistic approach to rare diseases and should take into account the social aspects of a patient’s life. rare disease patients often feel alone, and their quality of life is greatly reduced. people living with rare diseases should have the right to live a normal life, and we need to create equal opportunities, as well as social protection and inclusion for patients and their families. as a former teacher, i am particularly attached to the educational aspect of children. schoolkids with rare diseases still face inaccessibility to facilities, non-adapted teaching methods and are often behind in their education programme due to the frequency of medical appointments and their special needs. so a new action plan would therefore address areas such as research, diagnosis, treatment, social care, education, inclusion, as well as data collection compliant with the gdpr. data is crucial and we should leverage european reference networks in the area of rare diseases to optimise data for patients and social benefit. as a shadow for the upcoming european health status-based file, i am calling for a data space that is seamlessly connected to the european reference networks so that we can create better health care passwords and clinical research, because unfortunately, data on rare disease patients are still scattered amongst different healthcare systems. collecting this data could help us better understand the specific diseases and develop appropriate treatment. ultimately, data can help us increase the quality of life of millions of people suffering from rare diseases.
for the left. madam president, madam commissioner, let's face it, we need a plan for the 30 million of our fellow citizens living with a rare disease in the european union for the next decade. the last one is 12 years old, and that's a shame. the needs of patients with rare diseases require a greater level of cross-border cooperation in healthcare. despite the existence of a crossborder healthcare directive to facilitate such cooperation, obstacles persist that not only make it difficult to access healthcare in another eu country, but also leave an administrative, financial and emotional burden on the patient. improvements in diagnostics, data, research, integrated care and treatment should also be encouraged. we need to introduce mass screening of newborns to give them a chance to live a normal life. it is clear that without a union-wide leadership, this fight simply cannot be avoided. i am so pleased that the incoming presidency trio in the council, led by france, the czech republic and sweden, is taking a positive stance on the issue of the new plan. i would like to make a brief comment on the financing of the european reference networks, which we have heard so much about today. i raised the issue of funding for these projects with the committee on the environment, public health and food safety about a month ago. european reference networks are the most successful project of european health policy. despite the fact that we have set clear rules for their funding under the eu4health programme, they are now facing financial difficulties and the threat of extinction. it is necessary, commissioner, to react as soon as possible and provide them with the missing money for 2022. it's not about what happens after 2023, where we might have the money, but there's a big problem with the fact that we need to keep funding in 2022. i ask you to do everything so that this splendid project of successful cooperation does not have to disappear just because a few million euros are missing. thank you to all who are helping to care for these patients, especially the families and doctors who are trying to find the best way to treat them.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of new developments in research, science and technology, the current european policies on rare diseases are out of date. despite their low prevalence, rare diseases affect some 30 million europeans. that's 30 million people with no answers and unmet health needs. we therefore need a new european action plan for rare diseases. this new action plan should be based on well-defined objectives and targets and follow the latest recommendations. it should bring together policies and initiatives at national, regional and local level on rare diseases in a single framework. it should also take greater advantage of the digital age, of health data for more information, better research, more diagnostic tools and better treatments. a new european action plan for rare diseases across the board that will make us more competitive in innovation and research, new therapies and technologies and that will allow us to respond adequately to current needs, such as earlier diagnoses and more appropriate therapies. in line with the recent un resolution, we need a european strategy that goes beyond the provision of healthcare, that looks at health in its entirety, including the social and economic components, and that thereby responds to the many challenges faced by those with rare diseases in the european union. it must be a new plan of action that leaves no citizen behind. that's 30 million reasons multiplied by their families and caregivers.
madam president, to successfully combat rare diseases, we have to overcome many and enormous difficulties. yet, i acknowledge progress achieved until now. the existing european joint programme on rare diseases is an example of a very good european cooperation, bringing together all stakeholders engaged in this area. i think that a revised action plan is necessary. in particular, commissioner, i appeal to you and to your other colleagues to ensure broadening the scope of eu finances, in particular to those who are in action – parents, caretakers, as well as doctors directly engaged in providing treatment to patients of rare diseases.
madam president, many thousands of people in the european union are affected by rare diseases, requiring a comprehensive response. i have been following the difficulties of the approximately 500 families in portugal affected by familial amyloid paramyloidosis, also known as the disease of the little feet, a rare hereditary and degenerative disease for which there are few answers. this is a paradigmatic example. with a highly successful drug for treating the disease, the commercial logic behind its distribution makes it completely inaccessible to many of these families. only by strengthening the capacity for intervention and public investment to ensure a universal and affordable national health service, scientific research capacities to develop treatments, production and distribution capacities for medicines that do not subject patients to the whirlwind of multinational pharmaceutical companies, can we respond to the needs and desires of these patients. in addition to the necessary support for parents whose children are affected by rare diseases, initiatives and programmes aimed at eliminating the stigma that some of these diseases, often through ignorance, cause in others, need to be promoted. the european union's action plan, which has always been so much in favour of liberalization and divestment, will hardly provide the necessary response.
the debate on the european action plan against rare diseases is a clear indicator that europe is making positive progress in trying to reduce disparities between member states. the current situation with regard to the neonatal diagnosis of rare diseases, when viewed from one member state to another, proves that the only way forward in building a fairer and more supportive europe is to identify good practices and to standardise good procedures. in this respect, i am very proud to mention portugal as a very positive example, which has carried out neonatal diagnoses of 27 rare diseases. it is therefore important to continue to build a european union also in the field of health. it is proven that this is one of the major concerns of european citizens and that it goes far beyond crisis situations such as the current pandemic, or the prevention and treatment of cancer (clearly understood as a priority by the european commission), extending to all areas of health.
mr president, violence at work, domestic violence, violence in relationships, lack of access to sexual and reproductive rights, female genital mutilation, moral and sexual harassment, prostitution or the commercialisation of women's bodies as sexual objects: these are different forms of violence against women which must be recognised as extreme expressions of inequality and discrimination which are manifested in humiliation, in disregard for the physical and psychological integrity of the women who suffer them. forms of violence that undermine the dignity, social status and rights of all women. the independent treatment of each of these different forms of violence must be ensured, recognising what it represents in the lives of women. the adoption of measures to combat and prevent discrimination, inequalities and violence against women is essential for emancipation and equality in law and in life. today, 25 november, international day for the elimination of violence against women, we commend the valuable intervention of women's organisations in preventing and combating the various forms of violence and exploitation against women. that is our commitment too.
madam president, madam commissioner, 90% of the victims of the sharing of pornographic images without consent are women. the online world is not safe for them, and it's not safe for girls, especially, who are so often harassed at ages when they're not mature enough to defend themselves without getting beaten up. commissioner, it is not enough to incorporate a gender perspective in the proposals that seek to legislate on the digital world. i join my voice with that of my colleagues who have argued here for the need for a directive that specifically addresses this scourge. we can't let the online world be a mirror of even more sophisticated, and now so often cloaked in the anonymity, the violence that we see in the offline world.
madam president, we are debating yet another form of violence today – one that is relatively new, but nevertheless unacceptable. cyberviolence has affected up to 7% of women in the european union in the past 12 months – at least as far as the estimates go, because, here too, we have a lack of data. but what we know is – and i underline this once more – that seven out of 10 women have experienced cyberstalking, and estimates suggest that one in 10 women have already experienced a form of cyberviolence since the age of 15. what we know for sure is that offline and online violence are two sides of the same coin: gender-based violence. and they are intrinsically linked since online violence often turns into offline violence, making it crucial to always combat both. therefore, we are looking very much forward to the commission’s proposal and we are really hoping impatiently for a strong proposal from the commission.
member of the commission. – madam president, thanks to the honourable members for these interventions. it is clear that further measures are needed to tackle violence against women and domestic violence at eu level. the prevalence of these criminal acts has remained high across the eu over the last years and the individual and societal costs are enormous. this must change. the upcoming measures ensure the best added value at eu level to the actions already taken by the member states. the new eu actions will provide a solid basis for further work foreseen in the gender equality strategy, such as cooperation with online platforms. the upcoming set of measures enables us to address illegal and harmful forms of cyberviolence against women in a manner that strengthens other ongoing eu-level initiatives, such as the digital services act, and ensure the availability of targeted measures for cyberviolence against women. women and girls deserve to live free from violence, and they deserve a strong legal framework to protect them. this is equally true in the online space.
i'll close this discussion. the amendments will be voted on today, and the final vote will be on tuesday. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
in writing. the rapid development of communication technologies unfortunately opens up new avenues for violence against women and girls, exposing them to greater risks of abuse in virtual form: cyberbullying, cyberstalking and other types of online threats, such as cyberbullying. it is estimated that one in ten women has experienced some form of cyber violence since the age of 15. the 'online gender-based violence' should be considered as a continuation of the 'offline' gender violence and is often directed against adolescents, women belonging to vulnerable categories (e.g. migrants), people from the lgbtiq community. to ensure more effective and uniform protection for women and girls, action is needed on several fronts: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children against cybercrime, including the prevention of cybercrime and the protection of victims. the fight against such a dramatic and at the same time transversal criminal phenomenon is no longer just a political choice but a moral imperative for the whole union.
in writing. according to the european institute for gender equality (eige), one in ten women under 15 has experienced online harassment. unfortunately, harassment is even more common among younger people, with one in five young women aged 18-29 in the eu reporting having experienced online harassment, according to the european fundamental rights agency (fra). on 9 december 2021, the commission finally presented its long-awaited initiative to add hate speech to the list of eu crimes. this important initiative must be taken forward quickly. i have already been pleading with my colleagues in the house for a year with the president of the commission to criminalise hate speech on sexual grounds. i have also written about this topic many times before and have also proposed changes to the eu's future digital legislation to give social media platforms a responsibility to prevent and remove hate speech against women from their channels. our lives have increasingly moved online. the coronavirus pandemic has only accelerated this development. i'm afraid the hate speech has followed. we need to have zero tolerance for all hate speech, and social media platforms need to be more effective in removing all hate speech.
the next item is the debate on the report on the situation of women and men in the european union 2018-2020 (2021/2020) (a9-0351/2021) by mrs sandra pereira, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities.
madam president, we have discussed in the plenary today the work we have been doing for months on the report on inequalities between men and women in the european union for the period 2018-2020. women continue to be the main victims of existing inequalities, the gender pay gap, poverty and precarious work. we believe that economic independence is crucial for women's emancipation and for achieving equal participation in society. in this sense, we wanted to focus on labour and social issues and the eradication of the different forms of violence that women face on a daily basis in various contexts. member states should strive to implement equality policies that advance solutions that defend women's rights. concrete measures are needed which, through employment policies, eliminate discrimination in access to employment and strengthen employment with rights, collective bargaining and promote a general increase in wages and pensions, eliminating existing and unacceptable disparities and demanding the improvement of living conditions. greater action, awareness and monitoring at workplaces is needed to ensure better working conditions for women, paying attention to working time, the fulfilment of maternity and paternity rights and the reconciliation of work, family and personal life. we cannot dismiss the existing inequalities from the neoliberal public policies imposed by the european union, which have led to increased unemployment, deregulation of the labour market, deregulation of working hours, increased precariousness and low wages affecting women in particular. similarly, cuts in public services, especially in health, education and social benefits, further exacerbate the multiple forms of discrimination and inequality that women face. it is not enough to defend the reconciliation of personal, family and professional life if labour rights are not respected, if working hours are completely unregulated and if wages are barely paid at the end of the month. it is not enough to defend the right to health and sexual and reproductive rights, an area where there have been setbacks in several member states, if there are no public services to provide such high quality and free care. it is not enough to advocate a comprehensive education capable of combating stereotypes if the conditions for such responsibility do not exist in the public school and if it lacks the technical and human resources. it is not enough to advocate the fight against violence against women if there are no immediate, local social responses that allow women to free themselves from the oppressions they have suffered. it is not enough to advocate equal opportunities and access to careers if there are no public networks of supporting infrastructure for childcare, such as daycare, in old age or in the case of disability or other needs. the different forms of violence against women must also be recognized as extreme expressions of inequality and discrimination which are manifested in humiliation, in disregard for the physical and psychological integrity of the women who suffer them. violence at work, domestic violence, dating violence, lack of health care, including sexual and reproductive rights, female genital mutilation, sexual and moral harassment, prostitution or the commercialisation of women's bodies as sex objects are forms of violence that undermine the dignity, social status and rights of all women. finally, a word of solidarity with the women's organizations who fight every day to make equality a reality in law and in life, and we welcome their valuable intervention in defending women's rights. before i close, i should like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from the various political groups, their assistants and members of the secretariat, and of course charlotte, leire and filipa, who have worked with me, for their cooperation. we have managed to get a text which, we believe, provides a good diagnosis of the reality of the gender gap in the european union in the period 2018-2020.
madam president, there are persistent inequalities in the european union, inequalities that resist the law, that resist intervention. in wages, for example, 14% less per hour than men. in the distribution of parttime work: 31% of women compared with 8% of men. and many other numbers that we've heard here today. and there are new inequalities, as we showed in the previous debate. in other words, gender equality is far from being achieved in the european union, however much the contrary may be said here. it is a centuries-old culture that we are changing, and cultures, unfortunately, do not change by law: they require ambition, persistence, determination. we will be ambitious, persistent and determined in this fight. in addition to passing laws, we must ensure that they produce results and change reality. let's not keep arguing about the same thing. and we need to apply a gender perspective to all relevant public policies to that end.
respected. when we talk about poverty and do statistics, it is easy to see that more women than men are among the poorest citizens. after giving birth to children, caring for their upbringing, taking sick leave to care for their sick ones, caring for aging and infirm parents, perhaps caring for a sick husband, or perhaps even abandoning them, they have grown old themselves. despite working at work, at home, and perhaps elsewhere, their pension, in old age, barely covers the basic necessities of life. sadly, their pension is rarely enough to pay for care in a nursing home. this is especially true of women with less education and those in low-paid occupations. for being good mothers, wives, daughters, and daughters-in-law who did not think about retirement when it came to helping family members, they may be punished with a lower pension and a lower standard of living in their old age. unfortunately, we also have a number of jobs and occupations that are less well-paid because they are predominantly performed by women. it is sad when caring for cars or machines is better paid and valued than caring for a person, a family and a home. i wish you all a merry and blessed christmas, and you too, commissioner.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, to achieve a union of equality, we all have a responsibility to take and a role to play as eu institutions, member states, civil society, social partners, academia and businesses. i count on your support for a swift approval of an ambitious proposal for a directive on pay transparency. this proposal is essential to strengthen the application of the principle of equal pay for equal work or work of equal value between men and women through pay transparency and enforcement mechanisms. i consider it an important step forward towards gender equality at the workplace. we share the common goal of ending violence against women and domestic violence. i look forward to working together on the commission’s upcoming legislative proposal for a directive on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. we need to bring change and make a difference to women in europe now. dear honourable colleagues, i thank you for your continuous support and work on gender equality. our common work and priorities to protect women’s rights and progress on gender equality in all fields and sectors make the union a stronger and more equal place.
madam president, women's rights, in particular the right to live a life in dignity, are fundamental rights that must be promoted by public policies. the exercise of rights and equal participation is a legitimate aspiration of women, but the exercise of these rights and equal participation are yet to be fulfilled. the vast majority of women continue to be deprived of the value of their professional and salaried status, of being mothers without penalty or discrimination, and this is an unfair and unacceptable reality. as long as this is happening, equality will be just a slogan. at this rate, it will still take 60 years - i repeat, 60 years - to achieve equality between men and women in the european union. it is essential that member states legislate in defence of women's rights so that this horizon can be reduced. in this sense, legislation enshrining equality is of great importance in filling gaps and combating discrimination, and must go beyond paper to actually provide new advances in the realisation of women's rights in life. the report we are voting on tomorrow, regardless of the final text and whether or not the amendments are adopted, or whether the parts of the text which will be voted on separately are retained, gives voice to the just demand of the women's struggle and can be an important element in supporting the struggle for women's rights. our work in this struggle does not end here.
madam president, the pandemic is showing us every day the importance of having innovative health technologies that are accessible to all and can support the protection and promotion of health as well as the prevention of disease. strengthening cooperation in the assessment of health technologies should contribute to making health technologies responsive to the needs of patients, ensuring the protection of health data at all levels, health professionals, reducing bureaucracy and administrative work through the automation of health systems, through the standardisation of data collection and the interoperability of information systems and institutions, allowing for greater transparency in technical assessment and policy decision-making processes and promoting greater dialogue with the organisations involved. we therefore need to improve the prevention, diagnosis and treatment tools at our disposal, and this regulation will help to achieve this. i congratulate the rapporteur and all those involved on the excellent work they have done.
mr president, we are between a rock and a hard place. inflation drives up the prices of energy, food, and housing. savers will not get a cent in interest. the european commission and the european central bank tell us that this inflation is temporary. but what is the uncomfortable truth? the eu is in a total bind. governments, and the european commission in particular, spend money like water. the commission is adding €800 billion to the debt with the nextgenerationeu fund. we know that this policy is driving inflation into a frenzy. we also know that if we tighten monetary policy and raise interest rates, the debt-laden countries will go bankrupt. it is time for countries and their greedy politicians who refuse to reform their economies to take responsibility and start playing by the rules. we will never accept a common european debt.
madam president, there has been a lot of talk this year about the european year of the rail, about the need to promote this transport, to use it more, to replace links. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. three days of travel made in nearly 60 hours that two years ago could have been made in about twenty-two hours. this is the consequence of the liberalization of the railway sector, which has been promoted by the european union, and the successive divestments by successive governments of railways, which have led to their degradation. this trip is a practical demonstration of what many portuguese people are facing today, given the current situation of the railways and the need for a different investment policy in this crucial sector, which is strategic for national development and territorial cohesion.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, human rights day is marked by concrete actions. this week, we're here to award alexei navalny the sakharov prize and to debate with the head of european diplomacy the situation on the russian-ukrainian border. at the last plenary session, the representative of the belarusian opposition, svyatlana cichanouská, asked us for our support. human rights abuses in europe have one common denominator, and that is the regime of russian president putin. president putin commits violence against his own people. in cooperation with the belarusian dictator lukashenko, he is luring thousands of refugees to the polish and latvian borders in order to destabilise the situation in europe. former so-called 'minister of internal affairs' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. his illegal, provocative, terrorist activities are not avoided by the member states of the european union, including the czech republic (see vrbětice). this is my answer to citizens who ask why we support the opposition struggle in belarus. because freedom, human rights and security are the conditions for freedom and security in the european union.
madam president, the answer to the structural problems facing some countries, such as portugal, is not to adopt the so-called 'structural reforms imposed by the european union', but to adopt a policy that focuses on national production. only then can we stop being a country dependent on the surpluses of the great powers, a country with a deficit and a perpetual debt, a country which undervalues its internal market and whose exports are subordinated to the interests of the big multinationals. this is the way to free ourselves from low wages and pensions, unemployment and precariousness, the emigration of young people, and the worsening poverty of life. it is the way to exploit the interior and its enormous potential, to combat the depopulation and economic desertification which, together with the lack of public investment, impose obstacles to small and mediumsized enterprises and make life difficult for those who live there. the necessary substitution of imports by national production will also have the capacity to fix populations, especially young people, who will be able to dream of a future in their own country, in their own land.
madam president, this parliament has been debating digital platforms a lot from the perspective of labour rights and has reached joint positions which are important, but there has been much less debate on what digital platforms mean from the point of view of competition, a matter which is usually of great concern to the european commission and of little concern when digital platforms are involved. with digital platforms, we have different conditions in terms of taxation, in terms of regulation, in terms of labour rights. digital platforms dump like perhaps no other private company in the european economic area. how long will it be before the european commission - which sees competition problems in everything within the european economic area - starts to see competition problems in the way digital platforms operate in sectors that already exist?
madam president, after the gdpr, which has served as a benchmark worldwide for the protection of personal data, we are now taking an equivalent step with dna for the rules of competition. a step to protect sellers who see their products copied and customers stolen by the big platforms and to protect consumers forced to buy multiple services even when they only want to enjoy one. it's a result we have to celebrate! the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules are applied in a fair and transparent manner. will we have the means to cope with the major technologies, especially in terms of interoperability? will we be fast enough to bring competition back to digital markets for the benefit of consumers and innovation? just as the pudding is proved by eating it, the law will show its usefulness if it is properly applied. you can count on this parliament to check the results and fine-tune the regulation if it proves, as i have argued here today, that we really need to go further.
mr president, we are here today to discuss the european year of youth, but 2022 will also be the year of important decisions, as we expect to reach crucial conclusions on the future of europe. making 2022 the european year of youth and completing the conference on the future of europe cannot be a coincidence. as a young politician and president of the youth of the european people’s party, it is a privilege to live in a union that leads the fight against climate change and shapes an economy not for today, but for future generations. a key cause of younger generations. the environmental and digital transitions are shifting the way our society works, but we cannot deny that we are still trying to recover from a crisis that is not yet over. in fact, we don’t know when it will be over. yet, every uncertainty can be a tremendous possibility. every adversity must be a new opportunity. the implementation of next generation eu needs to be a tool at the service of young europeans, providing educational training, ensuring economic growth and delivering well-paid and quality jobs. young europeans want a europe where each generation lives better than the generation before. we – politicians – must take this as a central rule and place the hopes and fears of next generations at the heart of what we do.
in writing. other on 15 september 2021, the president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, announced that 2022 would be the european year of youth. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. in the creation of a genuine european education area, we now see that study abroad is becoming more and more common, facilitated by the erasmus programme, and consequently there is a need to ensure mutual and automatic recognition of diplomas, qualifications and periods of learning. we must also ban the practice of unpaid traineeships, which puts our young people in precarious situations and affects unequally those from the most vulnerable social groups. special attention should be paid to young people from the outermost regions who are often unequally affected, whether in the cost of travel, in the search for housing or in access to the various educational activities, which are more prevalent in urban areas. youth represents the future of the european project and we must therefore guarantee free movement, which will promote the growth of knowledge and the sharing of cultures. we must do it without leaving any young people behind.
mr president, mr high representative, cristiana chamorro, arturo cruz, félix maradiaga, juan sebastián chamorro, miguel mora, medardo mairena and noel vidaurre are the seven presidential candidates who were detained before the last elections in nicaragua, in unacceptable conditions, together with hundreds of activists, journalists and businessmen. some might think that after the theatrical nicaraguan elections, this repressive drift of daniel ortega would subside, but it did not. a few weeks ago the former nicaraguan ambassador to the organization of american states, edgar parrales, was arrested, which demonstrates ortega's unwillingness to change his autocratic behaviour. we know that the only solution to this deep political crisis is an inclusive national political dialogue. but first of all, we ask you, mr high representative, to be uncompromising in defending human rights and in demanding the release of political prisoners.
on 7 november, nicaragua held elections. a simulation, a sort of election designed to perpetuate daniel ortega in power. seven presidential candidates have been arrested, intimidated and persecuted. the same happened to about 40 opposition leaders, student leaders, journalists, human rights defenders and businessmen. i join all those who have called for the immediate and unconditional release of all arbitrarily detained political prisoners. i join my voice to all those who are calling for free and fair elections, the restoration of the rule of law and an end to repression in nicaragua. i conclude with the conviction that sooner or later the autocratic regime of daniel ortega will be defeated.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, just a few years ago, russia illegally annexed crimea and backed violent separatists that control parts of eastern ukraine. these were concrete actions against an independent country, a partner, violating its sovereignty and international law. once again, now, russia is sending strong signals that it may commit yet another violation with a largescale military build-up along the border with ukraine. deploying, for the second time this year, about 100 000 soldiers and military equipment at that border, which makes it clear as a threat to ukraine and a threat to the stability of the region. whether the intention is a full-scale military invasion or some kind of hybrid attack, or to intimidate and destabilise ukraine even further, we must not tolerate it. the european union, let us be clear, together with its transatlantic partners, must be ready to make full use of severe sanctions that will tell the russian autocratic regime the price they must pay if they proceed with this line of behaviour. we therefore call on the european summit, this thursday, to prepare a strong package of sanctions, including at least instruments such as the freezing of the european assets of people associated with the kremlin – and i said, at least. if putin and the russian oligarchy only know the language of power and money, they must know how much they will lose if they do not behave differently from what we have seen these last few weeks and months. we would like to establish a normal cooperation with russia. we have sent all the signs in the past, but it would be beneficial for everyone if that could be done with russia engaging in a completely different path that respects international law and the stability of our neighbourhood. that’s certainly the only condition in which we could establish such a normal cooperation, but we are really far from that at this moment.
madam president, the growing pressure caused by the increased russian military presence on the border with ukraine on the doorstep of the european union defies all limits. respect for territorial integrity and the inviolability of borders are principles enshrined in the helsinki final act, which russia flagrantly violated when it annexed crimea. we cannot tolerate any more provocations. ukraine has the sovereign right to make its decisions on defence and foreign relations without fear that its choices may jeopardise its autonomy. it is always necessary to have a dialogue between two parties, and mr putin has been destroying all possibilities for dialogue. the time has come for us to face up to the application of tougher sanctions, together with the united states and the united kingdom, and to start thinking deeply about the establishment of an effective common defence policy.
president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, the developments on the russian-ukrainian border are in fact confirming what we have known for some time: we need a united and effective foreign policy, and our security and defence policy is about much more than just the military aspect. as disturbing as these developments are, we must never give in to those who have no respect for the sovereignty of a sovereign country. ukraine is an important partner of the eu and nato and it is inconceivable that the eu or nato would reject ukraine's future accession a priori because russia does not want to respect the sovereignty of this country. with this attitude we are obliged to ourselves to put in place effective sanctions and to pay particular attention to the trusted transatlantic cooperation in dealing with this crisis. but this crisis is also a crisis characterized by a total lack of trust between rivals. as long as mutual understanding and trust have any relevance in our relationship with russia, we must continue to invest in that and continue to commit to some form of dialogue that we can have. talking to each other can without compromising our principles hopefully contribute to de-escalation and who knows what else. but that only makes sense if putin believes in our power and if we are credible. but we have to take care of that ourselves.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i’m sorry for having been unable to follow the whole debate, as i had to attend to ghana’s president. but my friend and colleague janez lenarčič has been representing the commission and attending as you participate in this debate. from what i heard, it’s enough for me to take stock of this discussion, and i can tell you that, based on this discussion, we will continue taking steps to increase our deterrence, as i said at the beginning of my intervention, and avoid any kind of military action starting to happen: to be prepared for the worst and to expect the best, as i said in my previous intervention. well, what does it mean, after listening to all of you? it means first that we – parliament, the commission, the high representative, the european union council, the european council and the governments of all the member states – will send a united and strong message to the russian leadership, indicating that we are ready to respond decidedly to any kind of military action against ukraine, should it happen. and we will send an equally clear message of commitment to ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. we should also reconfirm our support to achieve full implementation of the minsk agreements in order to resolve the conflict in eastern ukraine. third, we will continue working in close coordination and cooperation with our transatlantic and like—minded partners, as we did in liverpool at the g7 meeting. allow me to stress the fact that the challenges that ukraine is facing go well beyond the military dimension, not least the classical military dimension. they are part of a wider hybrid concerted aggression, which involves also energy, disinformation and cyberattacks – to mention just some of the new characteristics of these new challenges. therefore, we will not spare efforts to help to further strengthen the resilience of ukrainians, of ukraine, its people and government, across all sectors such as democracy, human rights, rule of law, people to people contact, trade, energy, cybersecurity, environment, public health and countering disinformation. this is our commitment, and i am very happy to see that, in this parliament, everybody – or almost everybody, with very few exceptions – is closely supporting this approach.
in writing. we cannot and should not follow a resolution that shuns: the existence of the coup d'état in ukraine (2014), supported by the us, nato and eu, which has established a xenophobic, fascinating power and imposed deep fractures in the country; a brutal war against the ukrainian people, which has been going on for 7 years; the points of the minsk agreement that the ukrainian regime deliberately does not comply with, such as the adoption of: a law on the decentralisation of power; an amnesty law prohibiting persecutions in donetsk/luhansk; a new constitution, to enter into force at the end of 2015, focused on decentralisation, taking into account the particularities of the districts of donetsk/luhansk and agreed with their representatives; or a permanent special law on the status of these districts, and numerous other measures, including the ceasefire, which the ukrainian regime has never respected, responsible for the death of civilians, until the end of 2015. the escalation of the nato confrontation with russia and the use of ukraine in this aggressive strategy are a threat to peace. we call for an end to the escalation of the ukrainian regime's aggression in the donbass, the opening of dialogue for a peaceful settlement of the conflict, respecting the agreements and commitments made; the escalation of nato's confrontation with russia; the plans to install missile systems and other us weapons in europe; and the enlargement of nato.
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on this important report on organised crime and the fight against it in the western balkans, something which we must all regard with great responsibility and a strong sense of cooperation. the problem of organised crime and corruption is not a threat only to the western balkans: it also affects our countries, the quality of life of our people and the security of our countries. but i want to make it very clear that, while we must clearly discuss the need to strengthen the mechanisms of intervention and cooperation in the fight against this type of crime, we cannot use it to cast anathema on the western balkans. this is something that cannot be accepted by anyone in this chamber as a way of fighting the question of european integration in these countries, and sometimes even with some speeches that end up confining xenophobic and racist speeches that cannot be tolerated in this house in any way. the western balkans have made a serious effort to combat organised crime and should see that effort recognised precisely through progress in the accession processes. examples such as the opening of the europol liaison office in tirana, or the cooperation agreements between eurojust and frontex with several countries in the region, are important to highlight. the safety and well-being of the people depend to a large extent on this work, to which we must devote continuous attention and effort in improving the results.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for this, i would say, rich debate. i think many of you actually highlighted the fact that nutrition is essential, it’s a cross—cutting issue and we must continue to put it in the spotlight. as i already said in my introduction, the eu is committed to ensuring that some of the most vulnerable groups – children, girls and women – receive the food they need to thrive. so we are committed to ensuring that food is produced sustainably, while also addressing the root causes of food insecurity and malnutrition, like climate change and conflict. our action plan on nutrition contains the roadmap to make a difference. it will continue to guide our work, taking into account the international dimension of the farm to fork strategy, for policy coherent development and the humanitarian-development-peace nexus. i can assure you that, from the commission perspective, we really have this holistic approach, and we also work very closely together between the dgs so i can assure you that all my colleagues and the whole commission is committed to this objective. looking ahead, we will continue to incorporate nutrition into our objectives for the next seven years. as i said at the beginning, the commission plans to invest at least – at least! – eur 2.5 billion until 2024, and, as team europe, along with our member states, this amount reaches eur 4.3 billion. we have exceeded our own expectations in the past with eur 800 million so i personally think that we must do it again in the future. but i think this is an area where we definitely also need your support. so thank you for the discussion and i’m looking forward to our cooperation in the future.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by mr gabriele bischoff, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on democracy in the workplace: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights in the event of a dispute between the employer and the employee. i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. in addition, as in recent rounds, remote assistance is provided by the european parliament liaison offices in the member states. i would also remind you that the speakers in the chamber will continue to speak from the centre stage. i therefore invite you to consult the list of speakers and to approach the podium when your time to speak is imminent.
member of the commission. – mr president, today’s discussion is a topic which is at the heart of the european union’s values. it comes at a time of enormous challenges, as the rapporteur has just said. the challenges of green and digital transformations while dealing with the aftermath of the covid-19 pandemic. therefore, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms gabriele bischoff, the shadows and the committee on employment and social affairs for this report, which provides a valuable contribution to our work and reflections on the role of social dialogue in the context of company governance. our policy responses will have to address major labour market and social challenges, especially when it comes to ensuring access to the labour market and fair working conditions for future generations. there are many elements contributing to enhanced democracy at the workplace. information and consultation, direct participation, indirect participation to workers’ representatives, board-level representation, financial participation and collective bargaining. they are all aspects that belong to what we consider to be the social market economy. the report touches on many of these topics, because democracy at work cannot be achieved through one tool or legal instrument only. it requires a combination of legal provisions on how companies are governed, a functioning and well-developed social dialogue, but also good faith and trust. social dialogue is one of the cornerstones of democracy at work, and the covid-19 crisis showed that social dialogue is an essential tool, also for crisis management and for finding effective mitigation and recovery policies. we need a strong involvement of social partners to make sure that the transitions to a climate-neutral and digital economy will be successful. this means that their impact on jobs and on the organisation and strategies of companies affects all the stakeholders. at the same time, the implementation of the european pillar of social rights action plan and the achievement of the eu 2030 targets on employment skills and poverty reduction also needs a strong involvement of social partners. to support social dialogue at european and national level, the commission will present a new social dialogue initiative in autumn 2022, and we will of course ensure close involvement of social partners in the preparations. we all know about the challenges national social dialogue is facing. to address these challenges, the commission is also planning to propose a council recommendation on the role of social partners accompanying the social dialogue initiative. there are obviously limits for any eu action targeting national social dialogue given the autonomy of social partners, but the eu has several instruments at its disposal to support member states, such as our funding instruments for supporting capacity-building. there is no effective social dialogue without representative social partners’ organisations on the workers’ side, as well as on the employers’ side. an extensive legal framework is in place at the eu level and the workers’ involvement in companies. it continues to apply when companies undergo restructurings or adaptations, whether it is in reaction to the pandemic, to globalisation, digitalisation and greening of the economy, or any other change in a company’s market or strategy. i wrote a letter to all member states at the end of last year to stress these precise points. when facing an emergency such as the pandemic and the huge changes in working conditions that it has caused, it is all the more important that workers’ rights to information and consultation are respected, even if the form may have to be adapted, for instance with virtual instead of physical meetings. the first 2013 fitness check of the three directives on worker information and consultation at national level led to an overall positive assessment, and this general conclusion was shared by the european social partners, as well as by the member states. but what concerns representation of workers on companies’ boards? harmonisation in this area was attempted in the past without success. now we have 27 different systems, and it is quite difficult to come to a solution given that this requires unanimous adoption in council. there will be perhaps one day an intergovernmental conference to change this because unanimity here is obviously blocking any progress. i also want to say what you have noticed in your report is that it has to be guaranteed that if companies transform or become more european because they may change the place they operate from, the acquis in terms of co- determination existing in one member state should not be lost or diluted. the commission will assess the need for more harmonised eu rules on employee participation in the context of the evaluation of the 2019 directive on cross-border convergence, mergers and divisions. one of the key topics of the report is, of course, the european works council directive. the commission reviewed its implementation in 2018 and concluded not to launch a further revision of the 2009 recast directive, which was a result of delicate compromise, but to rather support the implementation of the existing rules and pursue in compliance on a case-by-case basis. i fully concur with the importance of awareness-raising in this area. the commission already funds an annual european works council conference organised by the european trade union confederation. we stand ready to discuss with social partners how to improve the uptake of the european works councils, as around half of the eligible multinationals currently have one, and how to maximise their potential for workers and employers. apart from already mentioned planned and ongoing initiatives, i would like to recall that the proposal for a directive for adequate minimum wages in the european union includes provisions requiring all member states to make efforts to improve the coverage of collective bargaining and strengthen social dialogue. the proposal for a directive on improving working conditions in platform work, adopted last week, introduces an obligation on digital labour platforms to inform and consult their workers and workers’ representatives of substantial changes to automated monitoring and decision-making systems, thus enabling platform workers to negotiate the algorithm. also, digital labour platforms will have to create digital communication channels to which platform workers and their representatives will have the possibility to exchange information and organise themselves. another element of the platform work package is the draft guidelines on the application of eu competition law to collective agreements, which aim to make it easier for self-employed people to engage in collective bargaining. i am aware that the european parliament will soon start to prepare a legislative own-initiative report on the revision of the european works council directive. for the sustainable corporate governance initiative envisaged in the first quarter of 2022, we are looking into effective, efficient, proportionate and feasible solutions on possible eu-wide rules on corporate due diligence to address adverse impacts in the company’s own operations and its value chains. the economy is changing fast and steadily, and we need more innovation and investments in people skills, and therefore there is a real need for rethinking companies’ governance and purpose, and your report surely contributes to this reflection.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the right-wing parties like to present themselves as the voice of the small people against the out-of-touch bureaucrats in brussels and the hip urban chic. but if the small people themselves are to have a voice, if workers are to be involved in the huge transformational decisions of the economy that are right now before us, then suddenly we are hearing very different voices. many employees still have no or only limited opportunities to have a real influence on company decisions. we have to take everyone with us, especially in times of change like this. strengthening democracy at work across the eu is key to this. instead of telling people the fairy tale that everything will just stay the way it is, they need to be better engaged. the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted a number of proposals for the creation of a european employment agency. we are facing massive changes in the way we work and produce. digitalisation processes, but also climate change, will profoundly change our society and the world of work. and, no, climate action and good, reliable jobs are not incompatible, quite the opposite. the transition to a sustainable economy is creating new jobs, especially in the industrial sector. but yes, that is only possible with change and restructuring. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are fully involved in the implementation of the directive. the european union can and must play a role in this and provide a framework, especially when it comes to crossborder participation. and last but not least, of course, all workers should be involved, not just half of them. that is why we have been advocating gender parity in this report, because women in politics, but of course also in the world of work, deserve half the power. i thank the rapporteur for her good cooperation. commissioner, we can do a lot for a more social europe, for democracy and participation in the workplace: 'let's do this'.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, in industrial relations there is one party, the employer, who has almost all the power at the outset, and another, the worker, who simply sells his strength. we cannot speak of democracy at work without addressing this relationship which is inherently unequal for workers with precarious and unregulated work ties, instability, low wages, lack of safety conditions, who suffer harassment and repression from their employers at the workplace. democracy is a mirage. the reality is also that the guidelines and policies emanating from the european institutions have not only failed to address these issues but have in many cases aggravated and deepened them. the promotion of democracy at work presupposes the valuing of work and workers, their wages and rights, respect for and promotion of the right to organise and to take collective action and to contract, trade union rights, the right to strike, the principle of the prohibition of unjustified dismissal, the reconciliation of family and personal life with work by means of appropriate working hours, the reduction of working hours in order to enable the worker to participate in political, cultural, trade union and social life. respect for and appreciation of workers, their trade union structures, collective bargaining and contracting must be reflected not just in words but in concrete actions and whenever these rights are violated it will be through the struggle and organisation of workers that they will be won. and it's with them that we'll be.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to pay particular tribute to the rapporteur, my colleague mrs bischoff. the historic struggle of socialists is the struggle for the rights of the workers. the right to strike, to rest or to social protection has eclipsed other rights, which are less revolutionary but which we must not put on the back burner and which are now taking on new importance. workers are interested in and committed to the well-being and productivity of the workforce they are part of and to the sustainability of enterprises. they know the company better than anyone and can promote positive reforms. but for this to happen, they must be properly informed and consulted, as european legislation requires. there is a huge fragmentation of criteria and practices at this level in the european union. that is why we must welcome this report, in particular the call for a revision of the european works council directive and the establishment of a new framework for information, consultation and participation of workers in european companies. it is a path forward that we must take without hesitation.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr minister, at a time of so much concern this parliament must come together and send a clear message from here to the council. we have to unite against external aggressions, like that of vladimir putin or lukashenko, but also unite in fighting this which is the real global war of the covid crisis. we have come together to tell the european citizens that despite the isolated voices that have come here to speak, vaccines really work and i bring the example of my country, the leader in vaccination in europe, was not immune to this new wave of covid. we have the same number of cases as we had a year ago, but a quarter of the critical cases, a quarter of the deaths that we had a year ago in the same period. yes, vaccines work and that is why europe has to come together and the council should launch a debate and a sharing of good practice between member states in the vaccination response. but also to join in helping the global response, the crisis, by getting more vaccines to the world, by exporting more vaccines to developing countries. it's our safety, it's the safety of everyone involved, but it's also our moral duty.
madam president, i think it is very important that in implementing the recovery and resilience mechanism the commission and the council learn from the mistakes of the past, in particular the mistakes that have presided over the troika programmes, and that member states are allowed to develop their own development strategies and to accompany them with the structural reforms that member states and their democratic life determine. i think that this mechanism will have the best chance of success if it is allowed to be decided by the democratic institutions of each country and not by the technocracy in brussels. if mistakes are made, as they already seem to be in my country, in particular the concentration of this support on the usual large companies and not on small and mediumsized enterprises as promised, it will be up to the democratic systems to correct these mistakes and to redirect economic policy towards more productive priorities. the european commission must at least not repeat the mistakes and interferences of the past which have produced such disastrous results.
madam president, minister, commissioners, the creation of the recovery and resilience mechanism was a success. we can't waste it. now, making sure it's a success. in other words, national plans do indeed help to revive the european economy. they open the way for investment. they are instrumental in making both the climate and digital transitions to a greener, more digital, more cohesive, more feminist europe. they strengthen public health, education, justice services to better serve citizens and businesses. they generate a european dimension. they strengthen the value chains and strategic autonomy of the european union. that is why the european parliament is so committed to this demanding monitoring. and we certainly count on, and have counted on, the same ambition on the part of the commission. and it is this success now that will allow us to define the future of economic governance and the next generation eu.
madam president, 60% of europeans believe that national recovery and resilience plans will help their countries overcome the crisis. but we're late. the commission is still assessing some of these plans and i hope that in that assessment respect for the rule of law will not be just a detail but a decisive factor in whether or not the proposals are approved. on the other hand, there are plans that have been approved for months and are not yet being fully implemented. prrs are not used to fatten the state, but to fuel the economy and its engines: households and businesses. so the funds have to reach europeans, and every day that passes is a missed opportunity. the pandemic has paralyzed our economies overnight. our answer cannot be delayed. even if there are elections in some member states, this is certainly not the time for propaganda. it is, yes, the time of responsibility.
mr schinas, this is truly one of those interventions which i wish i did not have to make, but which reality forces me to do. how does the european commission respond to the exploitation of migrants and refugees by the dictator lukashenko? it is in line with the same diaphragm, responds by closing borders, suspends the asylum directive and tramples on the european parliament's powers as enshrined in the treaties. what a fine example of democracy, of respect for international law, of respect for human rights! this is not really my europe. we protect those who criminalize ngos that seek to help people who are hungry, cold and who only ask for a chance to live, a chance to survive in safety and with a minimum of dignity, and we deprive the victims of this political game of protection, we deprive them of their right to international protection, we expose them to arbitrary detention, we fail to guarantee them minimum conditions of human rights protection, we fail to guarantee a humane response. this is not my europe, commissioner. my europe would be a europe capable of mobilizing an emergency response to those who are dying of cold and hunger at our borders. this is unacceptable, it does not respect the values which underlie the formation of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by emphasizing the symbolic value of the european year of rail transport which is now coming to an end. for years we lived under the illusion that highway networks and air travel had made rail obsolete. there was disinvestment and disinterest. it was a profound mistake. climate change and mobility problems show that the train is a transport of the future. it is the most energy efficient and the closest to carbon neutrality enshrined in the european green deal. the railway is an essential element for the decarbonisation of the european transport sector. we acknowledge the support given to the railway sector under the union's extraordinary mechanisms in the context of the pandemic. but we need much more. support must go far beyond circumstantial response to the consequences of the pandemic: it must become structural, sustained and consistent support. a genuine european plan for the development of the railways is urgently needed. long live the train!
mr president, commissioner, what a disappointment to hear the commission explain to us again and again that there is no problem, that this is a matter for the member states to decide, and that, in the end, europe does not have to worry about the torture of these animals in transport, in conditions of purely commercial exploitation and purely recreational, of wild animals in circuses, displaced, trained for the pleasure of a few or a few, and to hear the commission tell us that this is all a matter for the member states! twenty-three member states are legislating; the commission is no longer interested in harmonisation; the fact that we have a shared common legislation is not of interest to the commission; the fact that there are crossborder transport operations is not of interest to the commission; the fact that article 13 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union requires that the welfare of animals, which are sentient beings, be taken into account is not of interest to the commission. so i say to you, commissioner, a million citizens and a european parliament are asking you to act on this issue, and to act effectively.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. imagine living most of your life in a cage. you were probably born in captivity, but you still feel the wildness inside you. you long to walk, swim, and sleep in the open air. but that's not your day-to-day. your daily routine is at the mercy of the people who hold you captive. you were raised in fear of punishment. you had to learn what you had to do to avoid pain. in the evening, in the bright lights, you will be forced to perform, under the shouting, under the laughter of the crowd around you. how can this still happen in 2021? there is nothing cultural, there is nothing educational about dragging wild animals across the continent and abusing them for entertainment. this practice should be a thing of the past in all countries.
mr president, when you deprive wild animals of their freedom, it is man who becomes wild. animals have only one reason to exist: to live, to live freely, and if they have a reason to exist, it is not behind bars or in circuses to satisfy our little amusements and our great resignations in the face of animal condition and suffering. that said, many european countries, under pressure from citizens - because citizens have a head start - have already banned wild animals in circuses. but now it is time for a european-wide ban to harmonise regulations and to ban these ancient practices once and for all. i think that the time has come, in this europe of human rights, to also now found the europe of animal rights.
mr president, commissioner, as already mentioned, more than a million europeans have signed this citizens' initiative. i am very sorry that in your speech you basically stated in an alibi that it was enough to ban the use of animals in circuses in individual member states. i disagree with that and so do the citizens who signed it. for your information, according to activists, there are still over 250 circuses in europe that use, or abuse, as i see it, wild animals. i call for a european-wide amendment, for a european-wide ban. only such a modification can be effective. the current state is not sufficient, that's for sure. so, if you say, 'let's leave it to the member states, the situation is fine,' you are more or less silently supporting the current animal abuse. i beg you to reconsider the situation! the public is interested in the treatment of animals in europe. we're dealing with a lot of things. there's been a citizen's initiative to ban cage-breeding. there are activists who are fighting against the long-distance transport of slaughter animals. europe really has a lot to catch up on. unfortunately, we don't treat animals as we should in europe. it's a strong ethical issue, and we've talked about it repeatedly here on the floor of the european parliament. unfortunately, i sense a reluctance on the part of the commission to address the problems. please, then, let's solve this problem! it's a powerful ethical issue. a europe-wide ban will solve that. we should not rely on the different national laws to solve the problem. it's not like that. so please reconsider your position and propose a europe-wide ban!
madam president, the european union cannot be credible as a leader in environmental protection without offering a dignified life to wild animals. who would believe that we are fighting for the rights of the most vulnerable, if we do not defend the very beings who cannot defend themselves? in captivity, wild animals are tortured exclusively for profit, with no educational or cultural effect, and poor health controls on endangered species undermine conservation efforts. the quality of life of wild animals in circuses is always seriously compromised. it's hard to watch images of bears or tigers circling around, even after they're rescued from their cages. the presence of wild animals in circuses is fuelling the environmental crime we are committed to tackling and poses a serious risk to public health and the safety of staff and the public. 23 member states have already banned all or part of wild animals in circuses and i am proud that, together with my colleagues from the usr, i have contributed to this in bucharest and romania. it is time for the union to take the necessary measures to enforce the prohibition throughout its territory.
madam president, commissioner, in the circus animals suffer from profound physical and emotional abuse. they're not happy animals, and you can tell by the look on their faces. they are slaves to a system and an industry that profits from their suffering. however, in many member states measures have already been taken to ban the use of wild animals in circuses altogether. however, there are countries in the european union which still allow it and others which have only banned the use of certain species and what ends up happening is that circuses travel to member states where these restrictions do not exist. that is why we need a coherent and uniform approach within the community. it is time for the european union to act. it is time to ban the use of wild animals for human entertainment and this time we are debating circuses, but in the very near future we will certainly be debating the ban on cetaceans and other aquatic animals in dolphinariums, as is the bad and terrible example of the zoomarine in portugal.
mr president, memorial has a long history of defending human rights and also, unfortunately, of persecution by the russian authorities. from extortionate fines, arbitrary arrests and prosecutions, to police raids, memorial and those who work with it have been subjected to numerous attempts at silencing and intimidation, also under the infamous foreign agents act, with the ultimate goal of bringing this organization to an end. created with the aim of investigating and documenting russia's repressive past, the memorial has now become yet another victim of the putin government's efforts to rewrite the country's history and, above all, silence and repress all those who oppose it. this is the moment, ladies and gentlemen, to say that we will not let the memory be erased, that we will support the memorial activists, that we will call for stronger sanctions against those who persecute the memorial and that we will help to preserve the memorial archives because this means preserving part of the history of europe.
author. madam president, when maykel castillo received the latin grammys for best urban music and song of the year on november 18, 2021, he did so from the 5 y medio prison in cuba, and not from a stage in las vegas. the song patria y vida, which won him the award, playing on fidel castro's slogan patria o muerte is precisely a message of liberation for the cuban people. as with maykel, the oppression of artistic and civic movements and the gag order imposed by the cuban government have been a constant in recent months and are unacceptable. no artist should be imprisoned for his art. this blackface of the last few months in cuba, the attack on human rights, must be reversed and the political dialogue and cooperation agreement with cuba can also be used for this purpose. however slow progress may be, or slower than we would like, breaking off the lines of dialogue would not help cuba. in cuba, as in other latin american countries - and i had the opportunity to see this recently in venezuela - it is through inclusive political dialogue that we will be able to make progress and not through sanctions that worsen the daily lives of citizens. and i would say, moreover, that they often have the effect of uniting them against those who sanction them, rather than revolting against those who restrict their rights and undermine the credibility of their institutions.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. those are three very clear messages. the first message is to lament, denounce, criticize the authoritarian response that the cuban government continues to give to any expression of dissent, whether from the civic space, whether from the artistic world or from any minimally political articulation of the opposition. the cuban government must respect the right to peaceful demonstration, the right to freedom of expression, and i think the cuban government would be wrong if it thought that, since the 15m march did not take place, then nothing has happened here. no, it does happen: there is frustration, there are economic and social hardships that lead to this expression of discomfort. secondly, when this parliament passes a resolution on cuba, it is not balanced if it does not include a criticism and a condemnation of the american blockade, which has repercussions on the socioeconomic situation of the cuban people. and thirdly, we also believe that the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european union and cuba is the framework, the space, where we can continue to try to help the cuban people on the road to greater freedom and democracy.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, we have a moral debt to those who defend the freedom of their people with their lives and who only want the values and freedoms that we here enjoy. two sakharov prize laureates, berta ramos and guillermo fariñas, have addressed this house, its president and mr borrell, to ask for the protection of our european union against the persecution of a regime which continues to fail to respect minimum conditions; in this house, the european parliament, that struggle has been recognised and with the vote of all the groups we have awarded the sakharov prize. disillusioned with the union's support, the laureates denounce the neglect and make accusations, in particular against mr borrell and the european external action service; their desperate situation is such that they propose the return of the prize as a form of protest. i am here publicly calling on berta ramos and guillermo fariñas not to renounce this prize, awarded by the true elected representatives of the european citizens in this parliament; and they will do so, they will talk to mr borrell and the european external action service. the last two resolutions passed in this house highlight the harsh reality faced by the laureates: since 2016, when the political dialogue and cooperation agreement was signed, the whole situation has worsened: torture continues, the persecution of citizens, and, moreover, the regime's organizations are being funded from the european union; none of these organizations have been funded, which have even been awarded the sakharov prize. what has to happen in cuba for mr borrell, the european commission and everyone to wake up to the persecution, the torture, of this bloodthirsty regime? i wonder where we will get the courage, the character, to point out a dictatorship for not respecting human rights when even here we refuse to congratulate christmas; how the far left, the previous deputy, is offended, right?: defending a torturing regime, but, nevertheless, offended because they celebrate christmas. how can we get the courage to defend that? that's the question that remains. merry christmas to all, and especially to the cuban prisoners.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, for the third time, despite covid restrictions, we refer to urgent procedures to expose atrocities by the cuban communist regime against its own people, not to speak about full debates when we discuss all issues. yes, we do have agreement with cuba, but to provide argumentation to one of the authors, there are no common values, no common principles, between us. there are deep systemic differences and we have to act quickly, decisively and resolutely to defend people, to impose sanctions and to prevent spreading of these kinds of policies, a kind of stalinist policies, to all other parts of the latin-american region.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, we are talking about cuba again today, for the third time in the last six plenary sessions of this parliament. it illustrates well how the instrumentalization of alleged human rights violations can be used as a weapon of interference. the name of the debates and the titles of the resolutions may change, but the objectives are the same as always. on the one hand, they are calling into question the achievements, the development options, the sovereignty and independence of cuba and are interfering in the process of normalizing relations between the european union and cuba in the dialogue and cooperation agreement, and on the other hand, they are trying to conceal the existence of the blockade imposed by the united states of america, which, in defiance of the principles of the united nations charter, brutally disrespects and violates the rights of the cuban people. we call for dialogue and cooperation between the european union and cuba on the basis of equal rights, without interference and on the basis of mutual respect. we therefore demand once again an end to the criminal blockade. we express our solidarity with cuba and its people and praise their example of sovereignty, resistance and struggle.
