madam president, commissioner didier reynders, in europe the fight against terrorism and crime must not be confined to one country or another. the european arrest warrant, which was created in 2002 in the wake of the september 11 attacks, has proved to be an effective instrument, far more reliable and faster than the traditional extradition procedure. between 2005 and 2016, 43 000 european arrest warrants were executed. i would like to return to three priorities of my group, renew, which i have defended alongside my colleague maite pagazaurtundúa. ensure regular review of unenforced arrest warrants to overcome deadlock situations. strengthen the european budget of the european judicial cooperation agency eurojust, which contributes to good cooperation between national judicial authorities. finally, to create a common eu-wide database to list european arrest warrants in progress and executed. these proposals are intended to improve, as you said, mr reynders, one of the most practical tools at european level for ensuring the protection and security of our fellow citizens, for a europe of justice and security.
madam president, we all know what this remarkable interest of the spanish meps in the european arrest warrant is about. it’s about their frustration because judges in several member states have refused to execute politically motivated arrest warrants against us, the catalan exiles. yes, germany and belgium have refused extradition requests. their courts told the spanish supreme court that they have used the european arrest warrant because they prosecute inexistent crimes and they disregard fundamental rights. in brussels a court of appeal has ruled that the presumption of innocence isn’t guaranteed in spain, and they noted that spain disobeys the united nations working group on arbitrary detentions. when a court of appeal rules that the spanish supreme court cannot be trusted for a fair trial, the problem is not in the regulation of european arrest warrants – the problem is the political contamination of justice in spain and that, mr reynders, is your business. it’s not an internal affair. it’s not an internal affair, mr reynders. you should take care of the rule of law in spain.
madam president, it’s good that we have an efficient instrument. it is also true that if we look at the numbers between 2005 and 2017 (raw numbers) – and i’m aware of the explanations of the commission – we have less than one-third of european warrants being executed. and this makes me wonder whether we should look, first of all of course, at updating this instrument and then secondly, looking at true cooperation and enforcement of this instrument, and also at the obligation of the member states to respect their commitment and to respect european legislation. we have situations with regard to efficiency as well. i’m from a country where the handing-over procedure is the fastest in the union: 11 days. but there are also countries where this procedure takes up to 90 days, and this doubles the european average. and then we also have countries which refuse to cooperate and which refuse to implement it. it would be a pity to hide each other’s criminals and it will be a pity not to use efficiently this instrument in full cooperation and with respect for european law.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. promoting our common european heritage is a fundamental task that has a decisive role to play in shaping our future. knowing and sharing our cultural heritage means a future that is nourished by the past, a treasure we all share. however, there are communities for whom the preservation and perpetuation of their mother tongue and cultural heritage requires daily sacrifice, despite the fact that they have enriched europe for centuries with their language and traditions. i am thinking of national minorities and language groups. we concluded the past year very encouragingly with a successful debate and resolution in the european parliament on the european citizens' initiative minority safe pack. i'm also looking at this debate today as a sort of continuation of that, and there's been a new development since then. the european commission's substantial rejection of the minority safe pack on thursday missed yet another great opportunity to demonstrate its commitment to action to support and protect europe's indigenous minorities and their culture. he's basically turned his back on these people. the role of cultural heritage in embracing and promoting diversity, cohesion, solidarity and understanding is invaluable. that's our draft resolution. all we need to know is when the commission is going to take this seriously.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. europe's intellectual and material cultural heritage is a defining element and source of our identity. the union should therefore put its protection into practice. this was requested by the european commission through the european citizens' initiative for the protection of national minorities, for example, the minority safe pack, which was launched by 1.1 million citizens. unfortunately, instead of taking the citizens' request seriously and thus bringing the union closer to them, the commission has decided not to initiate a legislative process to protect traditional national and linguistic minorities. and yet, european languages are on the verge of extinction, our traditional cultural wealth. the real equality of opportunity for 50 million european citizens is at stake. that is why the minority intergroup is writing to the president and vice-president of the commission with a negative response. as the report under discussion states, the cultural heritage of europe's traditional national minorities must be protected by concerted action. the same is true of the protection of our christian cultural values. according to a survey, four out of five eu citizens consider the protection of religious buildings to be of paramount importance. yet, hundreds of buildings are being destroyed before our eyes. monuments to our roots are being vandalized. europe can only remain strong if it is made up of strong nations with strong identities and strong roots. the lack of protection and abandonment of our cultural heritage results in the lack of protection and abandonment of our identity.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this rich and interesting discussion. i have noted your contributions and will cherish them in my future work. they will be very useful for the commission's work on this subject. before i conclude, let me mention the difficult times we are living in right now. we all know that the european cultural heritage sector, including museums, heritage sites and other cultural heritage institutions, is being seriously affected by the crisis. this is very well reflected in the report and i agree that these sectors need adequate financial support. that's why we've been innovating. in the summer of 2020, the commission launched an extraordinary call on erasmus+ creativity partnerships. €100 million has been made available to support projects that develop skills and competences to encourage creativity. we have also, together with you, made the creative europe programme more flexible. we have launched sector-specific actions and calls. we also ensured that the union's horizontal measures to address the challenges of covid-19 could benefit the cultural sector. we have created specific platforms to give the sector the opportunity to exchange and create solutions. finally, we have maintained a permanent dialogue with the cultural heritage sector and count on our efforts to continue to cooperate closely with the member states in order to continue to find ways, solutions to mitigate the effects of the crisis, to look together to the future. once again, i reiterate my strong support for the 2% of the recovery and resilience facility to be devoted to support for this report. today we have news. we have the creative europe programme, we have the erasmus+ programme, we have, including in my portfolio, new initiatives such as the new culture cluster, we have a new innovation and communication community with the european institute of innovation and technology. these are the elements from which we need to build new partnerships to establish ecosystems. i am also mentioning something we are not used to talking about here, but three of the five new missions under the horizon europe programme have specific references and recommendations related to the cultural sector. so today we have these programs, we have a strengthened budget thanks to you. it is now a question of building genuine synergies, of being able to finance and help this sector at this moment, not just through programmes that we know are not enough. in this context, let me just mention that today, with commissioner ferreira, we announced the launch of the design phase of the new european bauhaus project. today we know that the green and blue transition will only be possible if we turn them into cultural projects that aim to involve all our citizens and i am of course counting again here on the sector of culture, cultural heritage, creation, so that we can really build a bridge between the world of science and technology and that of art, creativity, culture, the unique resources that distinguish us from the rest of the world, and that will allow us to transform, work and find solutions together. so i think we all know that there is still a lot to be done, but i am sure that only by working together can we come out of this stronger and more united. once again, you can count on me and the commission as strong allies in this important area.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday, 19 january 2021, while the final vote will take place on wednesday, 20 january 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. 2018 was the european year of cultural heritage, which proved to be a successful initiative. the cultural heritage is a value in itself, diverse, multi-layered (local, regional, national, european and global) and interconnected in form (material, intellectual, natural, digital and digitised). cultural heritage is a major driver of the cultural and creative sectors both within and outside europe, with more than 300 000 people employed in the cultural heritage sector in europe and 7.8 million jobs in europe indirectly linked to this sector. languages enable and promote the richness and diversity of europe's cultural heritage, as mother tongues often used to transmit the intellectual cultural heritage are the bearers of values and knowledge. it is therefore essential to support european languages, which also play a prominent role in preserving our identity. unfortunately, while the report emphasises the importance of languages as part of cultural heritage and urges the commission and the member states to take greater steps to protect, develop and promote linguistic diversity, last week the european commission swept away the minority safepack citizens' initiative. it is outrageous that the eu has once again failed to stand up for national minorities and ignored the will of more than a million european citizens.
in writing. europe is the definition of culture and its first duty should be to protect its religious and cultural heritage. the cultural and religious treasures of cyprus are also european heritage and i believe that the european union had and has a responsibility to protect them. it is provocative that for 47 years the treasures of cyprus have been destroyed and are in the hands of smugglers because of the turkish occupation. the european union must take the initiative to protect the cultural heritage of occupied cyprus and support the repatriation of stolen cultural treasures of cyprus. the preservation of cultural heritage in cyprus is not only a matter for cyprus but also for the european union itself.
the agenda includes the report by alexandra geese, othmar karas and dragoș pîslaru on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a technical support instrument (com ((2020) 0409 c9-0148/2020 2020/0103 cod)) (a9-0173/2020). i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. in addition, remote assistance is provided by the parliament's liaison offices in the member states of election.
rapporteur. – mr president, we started 2021 with optimism after one year of struggles, of sadness, of fear and insecurity. the covid-19 pandemic changed our economy and society for the years to come. but now we see the light at the end of the tunnel and we now have the means to think about our future. optimists understand that life can be bumpy and they learn from mistakes and failures in order to be prepared next time. now it’s time for us to learn the lessons. i heard once an african proverb saying ‘if you want to go fast, go alone, if you want to go far, go together’. we aim here to go far in europe and the truth is that we cannot continue as before, we need to help each other and stick together in an ever closer union. member states unfortunately implemented only half of the recommendations that the commission addressed to them in the european semester. this means health systems only half prepared, social protection systems only half effective, economies half strong and sustainable. this means a future half bright for our next generation. the year 2021 comes with new challenges and we are to face them and we need to know how, and the technical support instrument will bring this help and knowledge to the member states. together with my colleagues othmar karas from the ppe and alexandra geese from the greens, with the other shadow rapporteurs, with the german presidency and with the precious help from commissioner ferreira and her team, we have put forward a very thorough and comprehensive instrument which, through its capacity and size, can be seen as investment in the future with high european value added. the technical support instrument has a more challenging task than its predecessor, the structural reform support programme, and therefore has a larger budget: eur 864 million worth of technical support is right now available for the member states, and that’s for those member states that wish to undergo long-term reforms and encourage public and private investment. this instrument will prove essential if we aim to truly address the green and digital transitions, to achieve the union’s 2030 climate and energy targets and climate neutrality by 2050. member states can also receive assistance when designing digital infrastructure skills and the e—government solutions of building a secure digital communication system. a stronger europe, a stronger union, is one that overcomes social divergence. for that the instrument helps member states that wish to fight against poverty to promote entrepreneurship, labour market integration, lifelong learning and vocational education and ensure access to health care and child care. these measures are not possible without solid institutions and this is why member states should use the commission’s expertise to build capacity to better absorb eu funds, to build capacity of competition, and antitrust authorities then to strengthen financial supervision. but before aiming to achieve convergence and resilience, we need to address our urgent demands. the most important role of the instrument lies in the recovery of eu member states after the pandemic. therefore, as part of the recovery package, this instrument will first and foremost be available to prepare, to amend, and to implement and revise the national plans the member states will put forward to access recovery money under the recovery and resilience facility. it is highly recommended, and if we wish to have a sustainable and fair economic and social recovery, we need to use this instrument. the pandemic showed how valuable our civil society is and there is no doubt that it has to be treated as a partner when implementing large scale reforms. measures to empower civil society, as well as consultations with relevant stakeholders, are crucial and are particularly encouraged by this instrument. we also need to think more about gender equality since women have been hit especially hard by the consequences of this outbreak. the instrument will show expertise on gender budgeting, on collecting gender disaggregated data and providing gender-impact assessments. this instrument will show a positive example of proper communication and transparency. transparency promotes good governance and builds trust in the decision-making process. it is extremely important as a tool to prevent corruption and bad governance practices. i wish to assure you that all eu actors play their role in this instrument, including the european parliament. this house will receive information on member states’ requests and this information, as well as the outcomes of the support provided to the member state, will also be published on the commission website. we will look forward to receiving annual reports from the commission and we will gladly welcome the commission in this house to discuss about the implementation of this instrument. we see governments leaving their citizens in crisis in a moment in which people truly rely on them. to them and to all member states i wish to say, leave politics aside and please use this instrument. use it to prepare your national recovery resilience plans in order to access the funds needed for reforms and investments. use it to implement the measures listed in the plans and to recover. use it afterwards until 2027 to create a sustainable and fair economic, social and gender-equal future beyond the pandemic. this way we will truly become more resilient for the upcoming challenges.
member of the commission. – mr president, the last 12 months have highlighted the crucial role of public administrations and public services at all levels of government. in the roll—out of vaccines, support to businesses, digital solutions for work and schooling, public administrations have to adapt quickly and find the right tools and solutions that best serve their citizens. this is why the modernisation through reforms is so crucial for both the public and private sectors. today we are discussing a powerful tool for supporting growth—enhanced reforms and for building better public administrations: the technical support instrument. reform support has come a long way in the last ten years, from crisis management to structural challenges, and from just two member states to working with all member states. in the past four years, we have supported more than 1 000 reform projects in a broad range of policy areas. most importantly, these were nationally owned reforms, requested by member states. with a results—oriented and hands—on approach, we have gained the confidence of member states. but reform is never a goal in itself. reform is a means to an end, a better environment for business, more resilient healthcare systems, better social and educational systems, better resilience to crisis and a smooth return to sustainable growth. our method is europe at its best. we aim to act as the catalyst bringing together member states so they can help each other, sharing the expertise that is already there. we do so in respectful partnership with member states. this expertise is needed today more than ever in the recovery from covid—19, in the transformation of our economies to prepare the green and digital transition, and in preparing and implementing the european recovery and resilience facility. in fact, i would say that this instrument will be important for the success of the mff and the next generation funds. the recovery and resilience facility offers unprecedented support for reforms and investments, but will be a massive administrative challenge, a challenge requiring strong project management skills and robust administrative capacity. with the technical support instrument, we send a clear message to all member states and regions: we stand by you, we will do what it takes to help you succeed, including when it comes to making the most of the recovery and resilience facility. i can think of no better example than the spirit of europe than standing together both in crisis and in good times, facing events such as this pandemic, and building our digital and green future. i thank the rapporteur and the co—rapporteurs for their work on this instrument, and not least for speeding up the legislative process to ensure we are ready to deliver support on the ground already by early spring. i look forward to our discussion.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, the committee on employment and social affairs provided an opinion on this instrument that shows how its use is essential in truly implementing the european pillar of social rights in accomplishing the united nations sustainable goals. on behalf of all my colleagues in the employment and social affairs committee that were hard in challenging conditions to provide our input, i wish to urge you to support the instrument as well as, you know, the member states to use it in order to address the reforms needed in all key economic and societal areas. we hope that it will be accessed with a view to creating quality jobs, education and training, that it will foster great ideas for the promotion of youth and children policies and will set up the framework for social protection policies that will focus on vulnerable groups. we hope that the commission expertise will help the member states to improve the capacity of public institutions to guarantee mobile and cross-border workers’ rights. member states need social progress and the technical support instrument (tsi) is a great tool to show how economic and social convergence can bridge.
mr president, trump's defeat in the american elections made the world a better place, but it didn't solve all the problems. we must now relaunch the transatlantic relationship, end the trade war and strengthen multilateralism, supporting the efforts of un secretary-general antónio guterres. one of the priority tasks is to reform the world trade organisation and overcome the blockage in the appointment of judges that prevents the dispute settlement system from functioning. without an effective dispute settlement system, the european union needs to find alternatives to protect its interests in the event of a breach of international rules. that is why i welcome the commission's initiatives, first by launching a partnership with other countries for an alternative interim dispute settlement system, then by including trade sanctions in the recent agreement with the united kingdom - and finally, commissioner - and now by presenting a proposal which allows, in compliance with international law, to react more quickly and effectively to illegal trade practices. the european union must continue to advocate multilateral solutions to global problems, but it cannot fail to defend its own interests. that means demanding respect for international trade rules.
mr president, in recent years the european union has been witnessing an uncomfortable reality: the loss of relevance to the world trade organisation. there are several threats, but i would emphasize the paralysis of your appellate body. we are also concerned about the failure to comply with or violate the spirit of the commercial rules by those who do not respect the rules of the game. and, of course, the unfair unilateral tariff measures which are so damaging to european producers and, in particular, to spanish producers, and which we hope will be a priority in the relations between the european commission and the new president of the united states of america. the european union has sufficient economic and political clout to protect its interests and rights in the area of trade, including services and intellectual property. this regulation should help us to improve this capacity, as will the next anti-coercion mechanism that the european commission has committed to present this year. these are not easy times, but we must be ambitious. the european union must push forward and lead a viable reform of the wto, promote its values and also its regulatory power.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their remarks. the commission is thankful to the parliament for recognising the vital importance and urgency of amending the regulation and for further strengthening the instrument. the negotiations were swift and constructive, but they were also intense and demanding. they brought to light outstanding concerns and called for even stronger union action. the commission will thus continue the work, as agreed, to name two aspects for the forthcoming work. in a year’s time, the commission will complete a review examining a possible further extension of remedies in the field of trade—related aspects of intellectual property rights. as already announced by president von der leyen in her letter of intent of september 2020, the commission will put forward a legislative proposal for an anti-coercion instrument to deter and offset coercive practices by third countries. as many of you mentioned this, let me give you a brief update. the instrument will be a new one and will seek to dissuade and offset coercive actions by third countries. the commission will look particularly at the possibilities for expenditures responses. the commission has commenced the preparatory work. the internal conceptual work is taking place, and the consultations activities with stakeholders will be taking place in the coming months. the commission will share further details as soon as they become available. the commission plans the legislative proposal for the last quarter of 2021, but is prepared to accelerate the proposal should the need indeed arise. to conclude, let me once again thank you for taking this important step forward. the european union’s capacity for action is now stronger. we will continue to work together over the course of 2021 to do even more in this respect.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 19 january 2021.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members very much for this invitation. for the next six months, i’ll be representing the rotating council presidency, at the side of our minister for foreign affairs, in this noble assembly. it’s a pleasure and an honour to be here. i want to say that we attach high importance to the relations with the european parliament and we look forward to keeping a good cooperation during the six months of our presidency. i think that this debate on the global strategy of covid—19 vaccinations comes at a very relevant moment. in the council we’ve been working actively on this issue, notably at the informal video conference of ministers of health that took place on 13 january. yesterday, we also had an informal meeting of ministers for european affairs, where the issue was discussed, and i chaired that meeting. on 21 january, the members of the european council will also discuss this matter at another video conference, following the presentation of a communication by the commission that is expected today. so the debate comes at a really critical moment. the epidemiological situation in europe remains very worrying. the impact of more social contacts during the holiday period, combined with the emergence of new, highly contagious variants of the virus, means that things are probably going to get worse before they get better. many member states have decided to maintain, or even reinforce drastically, the restrictive measures that they have in place as their health care systems increasingly come under strain. and this, as you all know, comes at a moment when we all feel pandemic fatigue, when we all know the terrible consequences and social consequences of new lockdowns, and when we know that we need to preserve our internal market and schengen. in this difficult situation the start of the vaccination campaign across europe gives a glimmer of hope to save lives, a lifeline to recovery. we managed the development and authorisation of the first vaccines in less than one year. this represents an enormous success for the scientific community and for all the stakeholders that participated in this endeavour. this also represents an enormous success for the european union, which was at the forefront of a global mobilisation. through a common european approach, we have accelerated the development of many of the most promising vaccines, through a common european approach we have secured access to vaccines for each and every european, and through a common european approach, drawing on the shared scientific expertise at our disposal, we have been able to authorise vaccines that are safe and effective. the eu strategy on vaccination has been a demonstration of unity and of solidarity. now we need to go on. we need to continue this concrete expression of european added value. we need more vaccines and we need to ensure the efficient rollout of vaccination in all of our member states because now people want to be vaccinated and, at the moment, we know that the demand for vaccines outstrips supply. while continuing our efforts to limit the spread of the virus, we now need to focus, in the coming weeks and months, on ensuring that as many citizens as possible have access to the vaccine and that the vaccination campaign progresses rapidly and effectively. despite the difficulties, there are still reasons to be optimistic. first the portfolio of authorised vaccines has been expanded, both in terms of the number of vaccines and the number of doses. second, the production capacities of the authorised vaccines are being progressively scaled up in europe. last, but not least, additional vaccines are in the pipeline to obtain an authorisation in the days and weeks to come. yet getting the vaccine to the whole population remains a great challenge. this is where clear communication can play a decisive role. we must be able to explain to our citizens the main bottlenecks that we are facing. equally, we have to be transparent on the number of doses that we receive and the number of doses that are effectively administered in our countries. we need to have comparable data. we must also combat the lack of trust in vaccines and convince people of their merits and importance. we need to work together to convey clear and effective messages on this aspect. transparency and trust need to go hand in hand. at the same time, we continue to monitor the vaccination campaign in close collaboration with all the eu bodies. we also need to discuss the format and role of the vaccination certificate and, finally, we need to discuss a common approach on the use and validation of antigen rapid tests and the mutual recognition of covid—19 test results. the analysis of these tests will also provide fundamental input on understanding the genetic sequencing of the new virus variant. a last word on international cooperation. we know that we will not be safe while our neighbours are sick, so international cooperation is needed and the eu also has a huge responsibility here towards the most vulnerable in our eastern and southern neighbourhoods. saving lives is saving the future and we can only do this together: member states, stakeholders, civil society, council, commission, parliament. we need to be together. this is what our citizens expect. it’s a huge responsibility and we need to deliver as best we can together.
member of the commission. – madame president, honourable members, first of all let me begin by wishing everyone a happy, healthy and safe new year. since the spring of last year we have lost more than 400 000 lives in the eu. with new, more transmissible variants of the virus emerging and detecting in member states, we are still far from overcoming this pandemic. but we have also turned a page and we begin 2021 with a powerful tool at hand to progressively put an end to this pandemic. there is light at the end of the horizon. every day across the eu priority groups are being vaccinated with safe, effective vaccines from biontech/pfizer and moderna. more approved vaccines will come, i hope, in the coming weeks, with the european medicines agency recently receiving an application for the astrazeneca vaccine and expects to receive more applications in the coming months. my gratitude goes out to the scientists who have delivered breakthroughs in record times and the countless healthcare workers that passed through the most difficult 10 months any of us could have imagined. they are now also playing a vital role in the vaccination rollout. however, covid-19 has always been bigger than the eu. it is a global pandemic and it requires global solutions to ensure that no one is left behind. no country will be safe and no economy will truly recover until the virus is under control in all continents. the recently emerged variants of the virus are proof of this. the european union is ready to play its geopolitical role here in full alignment with its founding values. the simple principle was at the centre of our response from day one of this pandemic and it continues to guide our efforts today, nearly one year later. it is also at the very heart of the communication we will adopt later today, highlighting the measures necessary to keep the pandemic under control until safe and effective vaccines can be deployed towards population immunity. i’m very thankful to the members of this house who have likewise constantly defended that we are all in this together when the eu has been unfairly criticised. honourable members, we want to ensure that every single person who needs a vaccine gets it anywhere in the world. we believe deeply that fair access can be insured through multilateralism and that is why we were among the architects of covax at the very early stages of this pandemic, with exactly this goal in mind. covax, the global facility to ensure fair and universal access to covid-19 vaccines aims to purchase two billion doses by the end of 2021, including over 1.3 billion for low and middle-income countries. the eu and its member states, as team europe, have so far provided over eur 850 million to covax, which makes the eu its biggest donor. we are aware that this is only the start and we need to mobilise additional support as we move forward. also as part of the eu vaccine strategy we have invested in the manufacturing capacity so that vaccines are more rapidly available to everyone, everywhere. and we have called for the free flow of vaccines and materials without export restrictions, including through the trade and health initiative in the world trade organisation. we are also working with member states to propose a european mechanism to share vaccines beyond our borders, especially before covax is fully operational. honourable members, the eu’s greatest strength is its unified voice. by working together we have secured a diverse portfolio of vaccines and we can build on advanced technologies, collective bargaining and good contract conditions in terms of liability and delivery. but we also have a responsibility, a responsibility to use our position of strength to support others. through the vaccine sharing mechanism, we will help priority groups in the western balkans and neighbourhood countries as well as health professionals in low-income countries, particularly in africa, and most vulnerable populations in humanitarian settings, to get early access to vaccines. we will provide grants for eur 70 million to the western balkans so that they can buy vaccines from our member states. we are working with the who to provide immediate support of more than 50 million for vaccination preparedness in the western balkans and neighbourhood countries. each of these efforts contributes to the same goal: rapid, equal and universal access to safe and effective vaccines and they are based on the same one principle, that of global solidarity, because this is what holds the key to a healthier, more equal and a more sustainable world and this is what benefits each and every one of us. finally, let me assure you that i have been hearing your calls for transparency loud and clear and i fully appreciate and recognise that the democratically elected parliament in the eu must be in the position to scrutinise our work under the appropriate conditions. as you know, we are bound by confidentiality clauses in the contracts, but i do welcome that the first of our vaccine suppliers has agreed to make our text available. i’m hopeful that this is not the end of the road and we will continue to work with all the vaccine suppliers to obtain their agreement and extend this access as quickly as possible. i now look forward to hearing your views and thank you once again.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, when a 74—year—old inhabitant of a care home in haarlem in the netherlands was vaccinated yesterday, he was asked afterwards how he felt. ‘it feels like i now have a shield, like i finally will be shielded against this virus’, was his answer, and ‘i hope i will be able to go outside more and see my granddaughter again’. being a shield for those who need protection – is that not one of the key functions, one of the key tasks, of government, whether that government is national or local or european? when fighting an opponent like the coronavirus, it is clear that we need all levels of government to fight and work together, and this is why the epp group supports the work of the european commissioner, of commissioner kyriakides, championing a european approach rather than one where member states are out—competing each other like we often saw during previous cross—border health threats like the mexican flu. does that mean that the roll—out of the vaccination strategy is going perfectly? no, there are still many challenges in member states and production needs to be scaled up. does it mean that the pharmaceutical industry is an easy counterpart to negotiate with? certainly not, and only more transparency can take away the widespread perception, whether this is justified or not, that too often profit is put before people in this industry. but one thing is clear. thanks to the commission’s and the member states’ joint approach, the joint purchase of vaccines, for example, we have had a stronger negotiating position than each individual member state would have had on its own. that means more vaccines for a better price and under better conditions. it shows what europe can do when we stand united. it can help save lives. nearly a year ago, in february 2020, the epp called for a common approach regarding incoming flights from china. at the time, some dismissed this as an overreaction. we now know better, and now that, thank god, more and more people are being vaccinated the epp again calls for a common approach: a proof of a vaccine administered in germany should be valid in greece. the vaccination paper from poland should be recognised in france. we therefore need a common european approach also in this phase of the pandemic, but not to take the place of the often very fundamental, very ethical debates that are taking place in member states, such as is it fair to give somebody an advantage when he or she is vaccinated if not everyone has had the opportunity to be vaccinated yet? i don’t want this to take the place of that very fundamental discussion, but we as the epp do want to ensure that all levels of government keep working together, madam president and madam commissioner, to provide this shield that many europeans long for.
the s&d group therefore supports the commission's proposal to introduce a new system of taxation of profits. and to protect both, the vaccine is deployed as the most valuable instrument. we cannot allow health nationalism to threaten to tear up the spirit of cooperation with which we set up the european vaccination strategy last june. in the face of the attitude of those member states which are allegedly trying to disregard the mechanism for the centralised procurement of vaccines led by the european commission, we must respond with solidarity and with unity. solidarity as the cornerstone on which we have been able to build an unprecedented vaccination strategy. thanks to the commission's centralised scheme we have purchased up to 2.3 billion doses from different companies. and thanks to the european medicines agency's efficacy and safety standards, two drugs are being injected and a third could see the light of day by the end of january. if we maintain unity and guarantee vaccines equally among the member states, the european union could have immunised 380 million citizens in the summer. a scientific and health milestone that under no circumstances can be ruined by parallel contracts and unjustified postponements. governments have an obligation to use all necessary resources to speed up vaccination. every delay is lives that can't be saved. and as we fight the virus on european soil, we must respond with equal ambition beyond our borders. the european union's support for the covax consortium is essential to ensure that all people in the most vulnerable countries can be immunised. our commitment to the most vulnerable in latin america, africa and the middle east is both a humanitarian imperative and an opportunity to demonstrate our value as partners. on behalf of the socialist family, i would like to thank the commission for its efforts in the fight against the pandemic and ask it, together with the member states, to ensure maximum transparency in the implementation of the vaccination strategy. transparency is essential to fight against disinformation and to transmit the trust that citizens need today. we must move forward with determination in building the health union to guarantee this value as a fundamental value of the union. the pandemic has reminded us of how interdependent we are, a fundamental reason to get vaccinated. the discovery of a vaccine is a scientific achievement, but vaccination must be an achievement of the commission and governments. their success or failure will determine how billions of people live and work without fear. the health of humanity and the economy of the planet are at stake. let's speak with one voice to make it possible for the largest vaccination campaign in history to give us hope again in 2021.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, colleagues, it has been one year since the first covid case was detected in europe. we've all lost relatives, friends, colleagues and we're still huddled in the midst of the effects of this virus. with a lot of research effort, money invested and willpower, a light appeared on the horizon. the vaccine gives us hope that we can begin to imagine a return to normal life. i welcome and appreciate the unprecedented solidarity plan put in place by the commission to give every european citizen equal access to a vaccine. but we must avoid the risk of undermining this success through lack of transparency and unnecessary delays. we've all received many questions and requests for clarification and i have to admit that we didn't have all the answers. what causes these delays in distribution? why aren't all the documents and data about the purchase of vaccines public, if they're bought with public money? no argument can justify the lack of transparency with all the data and elements of the contracts that are paid for with public money. what are we doing to increase the speed of vaccine dosing across europe? i know we are in a race against time, but in this race we must not forget that we have a responsibility to do things with transparency to the citizens to win their trust, because on this trust depends a great deal the success of the vaccination campaign. any questions left unanswered will go against our common goal. fake news is born of ambiguity. conspiracy theories are born in the dark. so let's assume transparency in this process. on the other hand, let us not forget that there are countries that need our help in this fight, and i am obviously thinking first of all of our neighbours, our closest partners, the western balkans, but also from our eastern border. the union must now show solidarity and openness as a strong actor equipped to respond to the crisis, because millions of people depend on our success or will have to pay the price of our failure.
madam president, let me start by congratulating the commission on its effort and success in securing vaccines for all member states at a pace that has been agreed. the rapid development of the covid-19 vaccine was an unprecedented research and funding effort that brought together governments and the scientific community around the world, and in which the european union played a key role. it took a pandemic to show us how powerful and effective the european union is when it's united. after this success that has proven what we can do when we are united and we really want to, i allow myself to raise an alarm. the most common causes of death in europe are cancer, cardiovascular disease, chronic kidney and liver disease, diabetes, but also mental illness and drug addiction. all of these diseases are equally threatening and claim at least as many lives annually as sars-cov-2. action to combat these diseases is an emergency. digitalisation, modernisation of infrastructure and environmental protection are essential, but the european union must prioritise funding research to prevent and treat these diseases. first of all, we must ensure all our citizens the right to life.
mr president, unlike some of those who have spoken before me, i think that this is a real lesson for europe, madam commissioner, which the commission has been teaching for several months. by surfing the limits of the treaty, we have created a real european shield. economic shield with the recovery plan based on a common loan, a small miracle all the same or almost, unthinkable even in february. the health shield also includes 2.3 billion doses of vaccines for 450 million europeans. much has already been said, including the essential requirement of transparency. i would like to call for a debate tomorrow. tomorrow is summer vacation and the issue of the vaccine passport, which is essential for an orderly exit from the crisis, for the tourism sector - 12 million jobs in europe - but why not also already think about the reopening of other possibilities. tomorrow also means predicting the next pandemic, because there will be one. more than 800 000 viruses can be transmitted from animals to humans, and thus many potential zoonotic diseases. i am not off topic, madam commissioner, just a little up front, we also need a comprehensive european strategy against pandemics.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it sounds like we all - or almost all - agree that only when the whole world can be vaccinated will the rest of us be safe. we just have to be aware that the compassionate strategy with covax, which can give vaccines away and so on, is not working. the countries are securing themselves and their citizens, and that is perhaps understandable. they are coming into stock, and that is why we - the eu, the commission, the member states - have to support india and south africa in the wto and in their desire to break the whole patent regime. because that is the only way to ensure that enough is produced, and there is already a lot of public taxpayer money in this. we have paid for research and development in the member states. we've put money into the system itself, so you don't have to worry about that. and you need not worry about the profits of industry, they are already enormous. so now, please support this regime and let's get started producing all over the world and not just sitting around clinging to ourselves. that is not a viable strategy.
mr president, i appreciate the commission’s efforts to centralise the ordering and purchase of vaccine supply, but what i do not appreciate is the lack of communication. unfortunately, we have read too much confused and confusing information from open sources. therefore, i ask for clear facts and figures. how many doses were ordered and purchased by the commission? from which producers? upon which criteria? how were they redistributed amongst member states? also did the commission prefer some national producers to the others? and were there any delays in delivery? our citizens, i believe, deserve clear and transparent information about all that and i would like, please, full information for citizens of all member countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu strategy to get a covid-19 vaccine is a success, but there are also some important shadows, and recognising the former should not prevent us from pointing out the latter. it was essential to centralise negotiation with the pharmaceutical industry through the commission in order to prevent discriminatory agreements between member states, a centralised strategy which should preclude any attempt at a bilateral agreement. however, the main shadow has to do with prices and transparency. the sie funds have helped to incredibly accelerate the process of research and development of these vaccines, sure, but beyond accelerating with these funds are we also insuring the industry from the risk of research? so why should we pay for the intellectual property of vaccines that haven't been developed without risk? today we cannot even fully access the contracts to know the official price of vaccines and therefore we cannot even open a debate on this in this house. we want a democratic federalism which requires transparency, public debate and accountability. if we move in the direction of technocratic federalism, we are not going in the right direction.
mr president, let us begin by congratulating the commission on its vaccination strategy. it has ensured that all europeans have equal access to a vaccine, without compromising on quality. but i also have criticism. firstly, there are legitimate questions about transparency, but it must also be said that the way in which a major member state like germany has tried to negotiate additional vaccines in parallel undermines the solidarity, the legitimacy and also the negotiating position of the european commission, and i would like to know what you are going to do about that. my second criticism is more fundamental. we all see the images from south africa, and the director-general of the world trade organization has spoken of the words 'a moral failure of the world', and i share that analysis. and what we see with the massive purchases of vaccines by rich countries is that the most vulnerable groups in developing countries are not getting access. the commission therefore needs to act now, with its obstinate stance in the world trade organisation and its lack of vision to work together to find a solution to this problem, and to ensure that the surplus of vaccines in the union is also quickly available for the african continent, among others.
mr president, 'selfishness cannot be creative', said the romanian immunologist ion cantacuzino. the fact that we now have a common european strategy, we have common money, we have jointly reserved this vaccine, we have contributed to its development, is a great achievement. this is not the time to score political points, it's the time to acknowledge it. mrs kyriakides is right, mr liese is right, pascal canfin is right when they said that this pandemic was bigger than us from the beginning and that only europe could respond to it. can you imagine what it would mean if today some people had it and others didn't? what if we were divided into sick europeans and healthy europeans, rich europeans and poor europeans? i believe that individual procurement would have led to nothing less than the dismantling of the european union. since december 27th, we have vaccinated 5.2 million european citizens, and joe biden is aiming to vaccinate 100 million americans in 100 days. i think we have the premise to do the same thing and cantacuzino talked a lot about love in society. i say that where there is compassion, there is a rebirth of europe.
madam president, mr. vice president, it is absolutely shocking what is happening these days, first of all because we are witnessing something that nobody expected, because after european doctors proved that putin's russia tried to physically liquidate a voice that is disturbing the kremlin, the response received is that when this voice returns home it is again restrained. you have before you, mr. vice president, a great challenge. it involves action by the european union, because millions of people with the same courage as navalny in russia are looking to europe with hope. today's russia is becoming more and more like a gulag and we have an obligation to act, because what putin is demonstrating these days by his behavior, by imposing practically stalinist practices by which he is trying to eliminate his opposition, compels us all to act.
madam president, mr vice-president borrell, i too would like to commend today the immense efforts of the european union to protect human rights throughout the world. i welcome the fact that the report we are now debating also includes a situation concerning national minorities. we in this parliament have had a long debate on the extent to which the rule of law must be respected in the european union and we have called for funding to be conditional on respect for the rule of law. i come, mr vice-president, and i raise the following question here in the plenary of this parliament: can we make our partners who are supported by the european union subject to respect for fundamental human rights in the light of the situation of our national minorities, because we have a country with an association agreement with the european union, such as ukraine, which, as of 1 january this year, is restricting access to education in the language of national minorities who come from poland, hungary, bulgaria or romania? we have a community of over 500,000 romanians in this country, and i am outraged that access to education in the mother tongue is restricted in this country. i think we have to make these states conditional on respecting the right of minorities to preserve their own identity, language and access to education.
mr president, mr high representative, the first point we have to touch on is the humanitarian question. there are still 5,400,000 displaced people, who are severely affected by poor conditions, hunger and the pandemic. there are still, and there are more and more, political prisoners. and so there is a confrontational situation in venezuela, to which the international community and the european union in particular must respond. and to do that, we must act politically, but not in the ambiguous and unclear way in which the high representative has acted, but rather by recognising that, with these illegitimate, fraudulent elections, the only interlocutor we have to organise a democratic, stable, free and calm process, respecting the rules of a state of law, is juan guaidó as the continuator of temporary, interim legitimacy, to bring democracy back to venezuela. and we need to strongly support the international criminal court in its demand to bring to justice the venezuelan leaders who have committed crimes against humanity. the venezuelan people expect a lot from us and we, mr. high representative, much to your responsibility, are failing.
madam president, mr high representative, your statement on venezuela this month was a grave mistake, a grave mistake of european diplomacy. many people are wondering today what europe's position is towards venezuela. we want to make it very clear here: the europeans continue to recognize juan guaidó as interim president of venezuela. we continue to recognize the national assembly elected in 2015. and we will work with them to support them on their path to democracy. the regime has done everything to stay in power, including committing crimes against humanity. mr. borrell, do you think this regime really wants a sincere dialogue, free elections? the reality is that the regime exercises total control over the country and without any incentive to change policy. if we want to help the venezuelans, we must act firmly. first, the recon. second, condemn the regime's abuses with action, expanding the selective sanctions. thirdly, to support the victims of crimes against humanity and to support the prosecution of crimes against humanity in the international criminal court. this is the message we send to the venezuelans from europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, the situation in venezuela is unfortunately getting worse. the fraudulent elections organized by dictator maduro on december 6 are yet another very serious act by an illiberal regime. starting with the siege of juan guaidó's house, we have witnessed very serious events since that day: the persecution of journalists and citizens continues, more than 350 venezuelans are political prisoners and, for the first time, members of a humanitarian association, azul positivo, have been arrested. the maduro regime continues to persecute newspapers, civil society organizations and opposition figures. the need to restore the rule of law and the democratic order is therefore becoming more urgent: the european union therefore needs to reiterate its support for the assembly chaired by juan guaidó. but it's not enough. europe cannot continue to give credit to those who have repeatedly failed to live up to their commitments. we can't equate maduro with the opposition. the venezuelan opposition is on the right side of history and the european union must have the courage to choose: we must say no more to ambiguity, we must promote a strong multilateral diplomatic initiative involving the united nations, we must support the action of the international criminal court to convict those responsible for the crimes against humanity denounced by the un investigators. the commission must urge the member states to condemn the maduro regime unequivocally. only then can we create the conditions for a return to democracy and freedom in venezuela.
mr president, i address the hundreds, thousands, and now millions of venezuelans who live under extreme poverty, political exile, forced emigration and regime torture. today we have seen clearly the greatness of the democracy that you are defending with your lives. while here, in this temple of european democracy, we hear far-left, communist members of parliament playing the role of spokesmen and supporting the regime, the venezuelan narco-dictatorship, which the united nations has accused of crimes against humanity. other members of the more moderate left are living in the utopia that the regime will change, but my dear friends - persecuted, tortured and humiliated by these issues - you know that this will not be the case. those members say that too many resolutions are being made. i don't think that's the case. i think we're short. and the only weapon we have, which we have been using - sanctions - is not enough at the moment either. mr borrell, i have to thank you for your words of support for juan guaidó and the venezuelan opposition. i disagree, of course, with the non-recognition, but i must say that it is very necessary at this time any kind of support from all of us to the people who are suffering. not just in political matters, because this is not spanish politics; this is simply a matter of survival of the venezuelan people, in their suffering.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the elections to the national assembly on 6 december were yet another farce of a regime which has lost all international credibility. the european union and the united states, as well as other latin american countries, have done well not to recognize the outcome. our group has always stood by the opposition to the bolivarian regime, a solemn commitment reaffirmed in the madrid charter, signed by dozens of european and latin american conservative parties and movements. venezuela's economic and social situation is becoming more and more dire: because of maduro's failed policies, exacerbated by the pandemic, a full-blown health emergency is underway. more than five million people have already fled abroad in desperate search of safety, food, medicine and other basic necessities, including thousands upon thousands of italians. the european union must do everything possible to ensure adequate humanitarian support and continue to target sanctions against maduro and his narco-communist regime. as long as maduro continues to usurp power, we will only recognize the national assembly elected in 2015 as the legitimate interlocutor and we will continue to call for free elections.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i take note of your positions, which are not new. i would simply point out that the text referred to is not a statement by the high representative. it is an agreement of the 27 member states. it's very important that we make a difference. when unanimity is not achieved, the high representative can take responsibility for delivering an opinion which he believes represents the majority - well, he finds that he represents the majority but not unanimity, and therefore it is not a position of the european union. in the case referred to, concerning the word 'outgoing', it is not a statement by the high representative. it is a unanimous statement by the 27 member states. let us be true to reality and, please, let us not distort it to support arguments that everyone wants to put forward. you may agree or disagree, but the important thing is to say things as they are. the 27 member states have adopted this communication setting out the position of the council of the european union. of course, parliament may have a different view and the commission may have a different view, but you know the division of powers in the institutional framework of the european union, and the responsibility for foreign policy currently lies with the council. in the same way that the european union does not recognize or ceases to recognize governments or administrations, because it has no competence for that, it has no competence. and if tomorrow the foreign affairs council were to decide unanimously to recognize or not to recognize someone, it would be a toast to the sun, because it has no powers to do so. and i can say the same about the resolutions of parliament. you can say whatever you want about what you're good at. when they have no powers, well, that is a very interesting view, worthy of consideration by the high representation of this assembly - you will not tell me, i have chaired it - but the powers are where they are. and, by the way, it is also not accurate to say that there is a change of opinion at the level of the european union, because the council of the european union never referred to juan guaidó - who has all my respect and support - it never referred to him as the acting president of venezuela, because there was never unanimity in the council on this. because there were countries that didn't accept it as such. there was no unanimity and, consequently, the european union never referred to mr guaidó because institutionally it could not do so, there was no unanimity in the council to do so. finally, beyond these procedural differences, which are very important because in democracy procedures and competences count, we will all continue working to try to solve venezuela's political and democratic crisis. that is the objective and it will not be solved by charming statements. it won't be solved by saying "mr. maduro, you have to go". the problem is that they do not want to go, and so we have to find ways of going through the procedures we can apply. we are against military intervention. we must find political solutions. we will continue to do so, we will continue to promote the work of the 27 member states and the countries that are part of the contact group, together with the lima group and the new american administration and - i hope - also with the european parliament.
i have received five motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 21 january 2021. * see minutes of the sitting. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the current situation in venezuela is of concern to the international community and democracies around the world. it is an unprecedented internal political situation that is forcing citizens to leave venezuela to escape violence, insecurity and threats. the venezuelan refugee crisis can no longer be ignored, and the country's economic situation is becoming increasingly bleak. the european union is concerned by the latest developments in venezuela's internal political scene and seeks to promote a democratic solution. the european union sanctions have therefore been extended in response to serious violations of human rights and restrictions on fundamental freedoms. democracy, transparency and the rule of law in venezuela can only be restored by creating credible presidential, parliamentary, regional and local elections. the 2018 electoral process was contested both domestically and internationally, while the elections of members of the national assembly held in late 2020 are not recognised by the european union. in this unstable environment, legitimate leadership is needed. the democratic opposition along with juan guidao are the ones who can attract international support and restore internal balance, given that the national assembly elections led by him represented the last free expression of the will of the venezuelans.
the agenda includes the report by mr reinhard bütikofer, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on connectivity and eu-asia relations (2020/2115 (ini)) (a9-0269/2020). i always remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. in addition, remote assistance is provided by the parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
rapporteur. – mr president, connectivity has not been a highly popular, well—communicated or widely used policy instrument since the strategy was adopted two and a half years ago – not even in brussels. but it is a strategy that will only grow in relevancy, an unavoidable policy framework if the eu really wants to be a valid global actor and the attention on the connectivity strategy is indeed increasing. if we look back, we can clearly see how much internal connectivity has been at the centre of integration policy success within our eu. now, in a fast and fundamentally changing world in which we are trying to define the eu’s space, we need to streamline our external relations also along the fundamental ideas of connectivity thinking. simply said, we will be more successful internationally if we remain open to the world and cooperate wherever we can to promote our values, our interests and global goods, common global goods. not those who insist on the highest emphasis on autonomy will reach their goals best, but those who are best and most effectively connected. my report’s aim is to help give a second breath to the eu’s connectivity strategy by expanding it to a global scale, by following a team europe approach, by tying it strongly to the headline goals of our union, like the european green deal and digital innovation, by having clear and strong priorities and good connectivity governance and by cooperating with willing partners and contributing to connecting the connectivities. it is important to take note of how much others are interested to cooperate with the eu on connectivity, in particular japan, which has already struck a connectivity deal with the eu, india, that is negotiating on an accord and will put the item on the summit agenda, south korea or the asean community, with which we have agreed in a ministerial meeting a common statement on connectivity. the eu connectivity strategy is an offer that will find many takers. let’s not waste these opportunities. it will also be very important to actively pursue connectivity collaboration with the african union and its members. i happily see intensified interest in connectivity on the part of member states including, for instance, france, poland and germany, and in the business community as reflected in business europe’s china strategy, published one year ago. so colleagues, let us move forward together to put wheels under this car and use this great tool for implementing our shared promise to live up to our international responsibilities by attaining weltpolitikfähigkeit as jean claude juncker used to say – the ability to help shape international developments and international progress. in conclusion, i want to thank all the experts and interlocutors involved, including those from eu partner countries. i want to thank the members of the commission that have actively supported connectivity, even though it didn’t make it into the 2021 work programme, the many dgs of the commission that have supported connectivity as well and also the external action service, in particular ambassador vlahutin. i want to thank last year’s german presidency and this year’s portuguese presidency for putting emphasis behind connectivity. and i want to thank the six groups of this parliament that have supported the connectivity report, in particular my shadow rapporteurs. it’s been fun working with you all.
we now move on to the second round of voting today. we shall vote on the items on the agenda. the voting will be open from 8 p.m. to 9.15 p.m. the voting will be conducted in the same way as in previous rounds. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i therefore declare the second round of voting open. you have until 9:15 to vote.
let us now continue our discussion.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadows for this very good and balanced report. mr bütikofer, in particular, was a very knowledgeable, dedicated and accommodating rapporteur. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade (inta) on this file, i was glad we included many trade—related matters. asia is home to the world’s largest populations and fastest—growing economies, and eu trade policy should be instrumental in achieving the objectives of eu—asia connectivity. we can build on our trade hugely with the asean region by fulfilling the untapped potential of the region due to a lack of physical and digital infrastructure. deepening trade flows will strengthen economic resilience, grow competitiveness and diversify our supply chains. resilience can be further bolstered through a trusted network of actors who can be reliable partners. in my opinion, this should also include starting a scoping exercise and impact assessment for opening negotiations for a bilateral investment agreement with taiwan.
rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. mr president, as rapporteur for the opinion on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, i would like to thank mrs butikhofer and her shadow rapporteurs for the text of this report. the eu's strategic importance to europe is undeniable. on the one hand, it is undoubtedly economically advantageous and useful for us to maintain transport, trade and social links with our partners in south-east asia, one of the fastest growing economic regions in the world. on the other hand, we must not forget that the main actor on the international stage in this asian region is none other than the european union's systematic adversary, communist china. the text of the report lists china as the most problematic. the main problem for european companies remains access, lack of access to the chinese market, lack of a level playing field. given the blatant cynicism and concealment of the truth by the chinese communist party regarding the initial spread of the chinese virus, it is, to put it mildly, astonishing how an investment agreement between the european union and china was reached at the end of last year, mr commissioner. instead of imposing economic sanctions on the chinese communist party, to hold beijing accountable for its actions that have collapsed the global economy and caused chaos in the markets, we have rewarded that communist party. that is, to put it mildly, unwise, i would say irresponsible. it is time for europeans to finally understand that unlike the asean countries and japan, china cannot be called our friend, but rather our competitor. china is a systematic and motivated competitor, not to say an adversary, not only of the european union, but of western civilization as a whole. if we don't recognize this threat and act accordingly, we risk losing our civilized role in world history.
member of the commission. – mr president, i welcome the five main lines included in this substantive, timely and forward—looking report. firstly, principles. i agree we must apply principles vigorously: sustainability in support of a green transition (climate, environmental, social, economic and fiscal), non-discrimination, global rules and a level playing field. a just transition, fundamental rights, security and good governance, full participation of partner countries in global value chains, and achieving sustainable development goals. connectivity must promote normative excellence and sustainable investment. secondly, governance. yes, we need strong wheels for the car. we also need fuel to finance it. eu and member state cooperation is crucial. our reinforced ‘team europe’ approach has proven its value already. as you have pointed out, the role of the private sector and civil society is also key. global connectivity needs are massive: eur 67 trillion of investment by 2040, as reckoned by the g20 global infrastructure hub. to meet these, the whole planet must make smart use of scarce resources. thirdly, we need to set clear priorities. global changes since the strategy launch in 2018 must be taken into account. covid-19 exposes opportunities, but also vulnerabilities, growing inter—dependence. i agree with the seven priorities identified: green transformation, transport, digitisation – this is very important as digital connectivity touches all our lives now – people-to-people contact, trade and international standardisation, health, and security. we must continue to translate priorities into action. we must show rather than just tell. we will mainstream connectivity within the multiannual financial framework programming between 2021 and 2027. we will help to deliver the eu’s core strategic priorities, such as the green deal and the digital agenda. the eu has already mobilised over eur 10 billion for connectivity investments in africa, and eur 1.6 billion in asia and the pacific from 2016 to 2019. moreover, connectivity is already a key pillar of our engagement with the western balkans. success has made it more visible. fourthly, partnership for connectivity. i agree we must work harder to implement the eu-japan connectivity partnership of 2019. we’re engaging with india and the asean. australia and the republic of korea reach out to us. we must work with our sister continent africa and, as of tomorrow, we can work with the incoming us administration. despite challenges, we should continue engaging with china, notably within the eu-china connectivity platform, always based on our norms and standards, principles and values. lastly, global scope. the current strategy spanning an arc from lisbon to tokyo must guide actions at the global level. i fully agree to address connectivity globally as part of our priorities. actions support our global aims. the europe-latin america bella cable project, for example, presents commercial, developmental and strategic opportunities for our two continents and will be launched under the portuguese presidency. it makes sense to develop more such initiatives under a coherent global connectivity brand.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first, as the shadow of the ppe group, let me thank the rapporteur, mr bütikofer, for his openness during our work. i am convinced that with this report we have managed to prepare a pretty solid overview of the present situation. we have also provided points showing the way forward, with the european strategic planning and connectivity concerning asia and even beyond. but looking at its annual work programme, it seems that the commission does not plan to tackle this topic, although there are plenty of reasons to do so. if you look at the data, the eu is handing out the most grants in the world, yet it seems that our global influence is shrinking. in the meantime, our partners – and also our rivals – are doing the same work much more efficiently, achieving higher visibility for a lot less money. therefore the eu, and europe as a whole, needs new strategic thinking and planning. we need greater synergy and better governance. we need a more focused and streamlined governance within the eu institutional framework, and we also need enhanced coordination between the eu and our member states. instead of sulking and criticising, we should take action and start being proactive and more assertive. i remember that in the 90s, europe was a clear economic leader, while asian countries were mocked for being copycats. now, 20 years later, i think that we should get off our moral high horse, forget about the good old days, and start diligently to copy the best practices that are lying around us and adapt them to our goals and needs in order to stop the sidelining and backsliding of europe in this global strategic game.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, let me reiterate and echo what mr bütikofer has done with his very comprehensive approach when it comes to this report, and thank him once again. indeed, i want to start by saying that connectivity is a key priority in the european union’s work as a global actor. asia is the biggest trade partner of the eu, and there is no doubt that we need an effective and sustainable strategy, including on connectivity, which is of economic as well as geopolitical importance. the european union and asia account for 70% of the global population and 60% of the word’s gdp, with large parts of potential between both regions untapped due to a lack of physical and digital infrastructure. europe already has good examples of connectivity partnership with japan, for example, and we should build on this and establish more such partnerships with other asian countries. of course, the eu connectivity strategy must be based on the eu’s fundamental values and should serve the goals of our key policies, such as the european green deal, the digital transformation and the global promotion of human rights. the european parliament report that we debate today clearly underlines this, and it aims to connect people, to empower our continent and to connect partners to work together. this strategy is not reinventing a wheel, but it brings our efforts more strategically together and aims to tap into unused potential.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, human rights and the climate crisis cannot be forgotten in the context of eu—asia cooperation. over a million uighur people are held in concentration camp—like conditions in china and face torture, fear, forced labour and sexual abuse. the eu must do everything in its power to end this crime against humanity. this report on eu—asia connectivity importantly calls for respect for human rights in all connectivity initiatives. i hope that this report can support the eu commitment to human rights in practice. for instance, transportation infrastructure should never be built with forced labour or without respect for minority rights. no cooperation should take place between the eu and actors involved in such violations. the report historically highlights human rights commitments to the paris agreement and railway connections to asia, including eu—india cooperation. thank you for this work, dear colleagues, and to the rapporteur, mr bütikofer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the covid-19 pandemic has highlighted the need to promote european strategic autonomy and, in particular, to diversify supply chains to make them fully resilient. in this context, it is all the more important to develop connectivity between the european union and asia that is increasingly efficient and sustainable and that also takes into account the potential of new routes, such as the arctic. increased connectivity brings with it a natural facilitation of trade and thus creates opportunities for greater access to their respective markets, including procurement and investment, and for dialogue on specific issues such as subsidies and the protection of intellectual property rights as a tool to prevent the entry of counterfeit goods into the single market. cooperation between the european union and asia in this area cannot, however, ignore the need for strong commitments to sustainable development, the environment and labour, and the defence of human rights, which we will pay close attention to.
member of the commission. – mr president, i believe that the coherent and meaningful eu connectivity strategy strengthens the role of the eu as an indispensable geo-political and geo-economic actor. therefore i fully agree with the european parliament proposals to uphold principles, improve governance and pursue priorities, forge partnerships which add value and articulate a global connectivity approach. therefore i look forward to the eu hosting the next europa connectivity forum.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on wednesday, 20 january 2021, while the final vote will take place on thursday, 21 january 2021.
the agenda includes the debate on the statements by the european council and the commission on the inauguration of the new president of the united states and the current political situation (2021/2502 (rsp)). i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. in addition, remote assistance is provided by the parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
president of the european council. mr president of the european parliament, madam president of the commission, mr high representative, members of the european parliament, in front of the white house in the four corners of lafayette square stand statues of european heroes of the us revolutionary war: french generals lafayette and rochambeau, polish general kościuszko, and german general von steuben. they and many other europeans spared no effort and shed their blood to help build freedom and democracy in america, and hundreds of thousands of americans shed their blood twice last century to protect freedom and democracy in europe. ever since, the united states has been our closest ally in defending democracy and rule of law. american democracy has stood strong and often served as an example for advocates of freedom around the world, and this is why the events at the us capitol shocked us so much. but the darkness of violence will never dim the light of democracy. law, order and democracy have prevailed over this disgraceful attempt to overturn the election. american democracy has proven its strength and resilience, and today joe biden takes the oath of office as the 46th president of the united states. this will be, i hope, a day of peaceful transition and a great day for american democracy, like it has been for over two centuries. dear members of parliament, today is more than a transition. today is an opportunity to rejuvenate our transatlantic relationship, which has greatly suffered in the last four years. in these years, the world has grown more complex, less stable and less predictable. this requires, more than ever before, that we europeans take our fate firmly into our own hands to defend our interests and promote our values. a europe that plays a stabilising and constructive role on the global scene in line with our true weight in the world; a stronger europe to contribute to a better, fairer and greener world; a stronger europe in defence and in preserving peace and security. and to do this, we need strong and reliable partners, and this is why the european council reaffirms the strategic importance of our partnership with the united states as the world's foremost and closest relationship. we share values, common interests, cultural and historical ties, and a geopolitical reality. together we must stand as the bedrock of the rules-based international order working for peace, security, prosperity, freedom, human rights and gender equality values harshly challenged in the world. dear members of parliament, on the first day of his term of office, i address a solemn proposal to the new us president: let us build a new founding pact for a stronger europe, for a stronger america, and for a better world. i would like to make a solemn appeal today, on joe biden's inauguration day, to build together a new founding pact for a stronger europe, a stronger america and a better world. dear colleagues, we should work on five priorities: first, boosting multilateral cooperation; second, combating covid-19; third, tackling climate change; fourth, rebuilding our economies, ensuring fair trade and promoting the digital transformation; and fifth, joining forces on security and peace. this won't be easy, but together we are up to the challenge. the eu and us, we have our differences, and these will not magically disappear. america seems to have changed, and how it is perceived in europe and the rest of the world has also changed. similarly, the way the united states views the european union may also have to change. the eu chooses its course and does not wait for permission to take its own decisions. still, what unites us is so much greater than what divides us, and the events of 6 january have revealed that we share one particular challenge in common: protecting democracy and the rule of law. 6 january was a lesson to us all a wake-up call that even in our well-established democracies we too often take democracy and the rule of law for granted. protecting democracy requires constant vigilance and constant work to foster cohesion in our societies. this is true in america, and it is true right here in europe. ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, this new agenda for europe and the united states that we are putting on the table is an ambitious agenda and that is why, on this first day of his term, i would like to invite president biden to europe to participate in an extraordinary meeting of the european council in brussels, a meeting that could be held in parallel with a nato summit. you see, we are ready, we want to be brought together, we want to be mobilized to work together with the united states, to build a new founding pact for a strong europe, for a strong united states and for a better world.
president of the commission. – mr president, in all beginnings there dwells a magic force. jedem anfang wohnt ein zauber inne. i cannot help but think of this famous line of the poet, hermann hesse, when looking forward to the inauguration of joe biden in a few hours from now. joe biden’s oath will be a message of healing for a deeply divided nation, and it will be a message of hope for a world that is waiting for the us to be back in the circle of like—minded states. this time-honoured ceremony, on the steps of the us capitol, will be a demonstration of the resilience of american democracy and the resounding proof that, once again, after four long years, europe has a friend in the white house, and he will be standing next to kamala harris, the first woman to be vice-president of the united states. this is a historic achievement and this also makes this day very special. this new dawn in america is the moment we’ve been waiting for so long. europe is ready for a new start with our oldest and most trusted partner, and this is why the commission has recently adopted a new forward—looking transatlantic agenda. it focuses on where we can, together, join forces to push for global change, based on our common values, interests and global influence. from climate change to health, from digitalisation to democracy, these are global challenges that need renewed and improved global cooperation. the european union and the united states must lead from the front and bring an alliance of like—minded partners with us. there is of course no greater need for global cooperation in the short term than in tackling the pandemic, which has been so devastating on both sides of the atlantic. as you know, the european union has been leading the global response since day one, and it was so encouraging that so many us organisations and foundations have helped build and design the covax facility, our global alliance to bring vaccine to the low and middle-income countries. now i am looking forward to the us government joining our common effort. this will be a strong message. beyond this, we will propose to the united states to step up our work on health prevention, preparedness and response at the g20 health summit in rome in may. i’m delighted that, on day one as they, the new american administration, announced, the united states will rejoin the paris agreement. this will be a very strong starting point for our renewed cooperation, and of course way more is to come. we want to deepen our partnership on emission trading and carbon pricing, we want to join forces with the united states to fight the loss of biodiversity and the destruction of nature. we want to develop the technologies that will drive us to climate neutrality. it is with this new green tech alliance that we will look forward at everything from offshore to climate change, from hydrogen that is clean to sustainable batteries and to circular economies that we have to build up to fight this climate change. we will be ready to engage from day one on. meine sehr geehrten damen und herren abgeordnete! die erleichterung, die viele von uns über den amtswechsel in washington spüren, sollte über eines nicht hinwegtäuschen: präsident trump mag in wenigen stunden geschichte sein, seine anhängerinnen und anhänger aber bleiben. über 70 millionen amerikanerinnen und amerikaner haben trump bei den wahlen ihre stimme gegeben. einige hundert von ihnen stürmten erst vor wenigen tagen das kapitol in washington, das herz der amerikanischen demokratie. diese fernsehbilder waren ein schock für uns alle. so sieht es aus, wenn aus worten taten werden. so sieht es aus, wenn die rasante digitale verbreitung der hassbotschaften und fake news zu einer gefahr für die demokratie werden. wir sollten diese bilder aus den usa als mahnung begreifen, trotz allen urvertrauens in unsere europäische demokratie. wir als europäer, sind vor solchen entwicklungen nicht gefeit. im gegenteil. auch bei uns gibt es sie längst. im vergangenen august wollten einige hundert rechtsextreme den berliner reichstag stürmen. nur dem mut und der umsicht einer handvoll von polizisten war es zu verdanken, dass sie damit keinen erfolg hatten. und wir erinnern uns an jo cox. die britische labour-abgeordnete wurde im juni 2016, in diesen hitzigen tagen vor dem brexit-referendum, von einem rechtsextremen täter ermordet – eine tat die noch heute fassungslos macht. natürlich gibt es unterschiede zum sturm auf das kapitol. aber es gibt auch bei uns menschen, die sich benachteiligt fühlen, die wütend sind, menschen, die wild grassierenden verschwörungstheorien anhängen, einer oft wirren melange völlig abstruser hirngespinste. und es gibt natürlich auch bei uns die sozialen medien, die diesen hass und diese verachtung unserer demokratie ungefiltert millionenfach verbreiteten. meine damen und herren abgeordnete, natürlich müssen wir auf die sorgen und nöte jedes einzelnen unsere bürgerinnen und bürger eingehen. ihre ängste etwa – völlig berechtigt –, in der pandemie wirtschaftlich abgehängt zu werden. wir werden dies tun, etwa mit dem milliardenschweren investitions- und wiederaufbauprogramm nextgenerationeu. am ende aber werden wir womöglich nicht jeden und jede davon überzeugen können, dass in unseren demokratien keine finsteren mächte am werk sind. eines können und eines müssen wir als politikerinnen und politiker aber tun: wir müssen dafür sorgen, dass sich diese hassbotschaften und falschinformationen nicht mehr ungehemmt verbreiten können. wir müssen die ungebremste und unkontrollierte macht – das ist eine politische macht – der großen internetkonzerne demokratisch einhegen. denn in einer welt, in der polarisierende meinungen die größte chance auf gehör haben, ist der weg von abseitigen verschwörungstheorien zu toten polizisten nicht mehr weit. auch das hat der sturm auf das kapitol leider gezeigt. lassen sie mich zunächst eines klarstellen, damit kein falscher zungenschlag in unsere debatte kommt: wir in europa schätzen innovationen. wir begeistern uns für die möglichkeiten modernster technik. wir sind offen für neues, denn ohne das neue, ohne die innovation, ohne die fortschritte der technik, gibt es kein morgen, werden wir das, was uns wichtig ist, nicht behalten können. aber niemals dürfen neue technologien dazu führen, dass andere bestimmen, wie wir leben und genau darum geht es hier. wie sie wissen, hat die kommission im dezember den digital services act und den digital markets act auf den weg gebracht. grob vereinfacht, wollen wir damit erreichen, dass künftig online verboten ist, was auch in der analogen welt verboten ist. wir wollen, dass die plattformen transparenz schaffen, wie ihre algorithmen funktionieren. denn es kann nicht sein, dass entscheidungen, die weitreichende auswirkungen auf unsere demokratie haben, von rechenprogrammen getroffen werden, die kein mensch kontrolliert. und wir wollen klare vorgaben, dass die internetkonzerne verantwortung übernehmen für die inhalte die sie verbreiten. denn auch das ist mir wichtig. so richtig es gewesen sein mag, dass twitter den account von donald trump fünf minuten nach zwölf abgeschaltet hat – solch gravierende eingriffe in die meinungsfreiheit sollten auf der basis von gesetzen gemacht werden und nicht nach den spielregeln von unternehmen, auf grundlage der entscheidung von parlamenten, politikerinnen und politikern und nicht der manager vom silicon valley. sehr geehrte damen und herren abgeordnete! gerade auf dem gebiet des digitalen haben wir in europa der neuen regierung in washington viel anzubieten. unser europäischer weg kann vorbild für internationale weichenstellungen sein – so, wie es unsere datenschutz-grundverordnung längst ist. ich kann mir als ersten schritt beispielsweise einen gemeinsamen trade and technology council vorstellen. gemeinsam können wir ein weltweit gültiges regelbuch für die digitalwirtschaft schaffen – von datenschutz und privatsphäre bis hin zur sicherheit kritischer infrastruktur. ein regelwerk, das auf unseren werten basiert: menschenrechte und pluralismus, inklusion und dem schutz der privatsphäre. honourable members, this day brings good news. the united states are back, and europe stands ready to reconnect with an old and trusted partner to breathe new life into our cherished alliance. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, yes, today is a day of great expectations: of a better future, of hope, of a new chapter in the transatlantic relationships, when the inauguration of joe biden as president and vice—president harris will take place. four years of splitting societies, of fake news, even of the escalation of violence against the institutions who represent our democracy, are now behind us. the first message, while still having the pictures of the congress and the senate in america in mind; the unbelievable pictures from the office of nancy pelosi or the plenary of the senate. the main message for me, is first of all, that as a member of a parliament, the european parliament, as elected members of a parliament, we are close to our colleagues in washington. we are together defending the institutions, the parliament, as a heart of democracy – we will always fight for it. i think it would be arrogant in these times to try to give our american friends any kind of lesson. we are facing similar – even the same – challenges. the first was already expressed by our commission president: social media, the digital world. i think the new way of communication has made these things possible. it is a fact that compromise is boring in a social media feed and an extreme position of provocation is attractive, it is re-tweeted. that is a reality, and this has a lot of impact in our daily life, as politicians in our political life. the big tech giants need clear rules, and the business of the big tech giants must be to serve societies and not destroy our european way of life. a second consideration for me is that more than 70 million people still voted for donald trump. around half of american society. that is the real challenge: how to win them back to serious centre—based politics. i think it would be wrong to attack them as populistic voters. i think we have to take their concerns seriously. to ask for a strict control of the border is not radical, to ask for regulation of the globalisation, with regard to china, is not radical and to defend american jobs is also not radical. we have to take their concerns seriously. the third point i want to mention is – yes – we will have a restart of the transatlantic relationship with joe biden in office, and president michel if you will allow, i think it would be great to have joe biden in a council meeting; but the better option for having joe biden in europe to present his ideas for the future of the transatlantic relationship would be to have him make a speech in the european parliament, probably in strasbourg, because he’s aware of europe’s history. that could be a really great place to restart. but, this restart also means for us as europeans to be prepared, and there i have some thoughts, for example, on security, about nato cooperation. are we really ready to build up our european defence pillar; are we really ready to give in and to invest more? on trade, i still have the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) discussions in mind. we have to learn from the mistakes we made about transparency, for example, on the ttip debate eight years ago. in the ttip debate, there were a lot of anti—european arguments on the table as well. are we really prepared for a restart? that is what we have to reflect upon. the last point i want to mention is, having the developments in america in mind, we together have to define a clear red line as to what extremism is all about and to fight against violence in politics. we did it in the european parliament last year with the rule of law mechanism to establish a binding mechanism where we defend the values of the european way of life and defend our institutions. the european union is about being united in diversity, that is our main message and the same message could also be for our american transatlantic relationship: ‘united in diversity’. let’s defend our common values and our institutions.
the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr glinne, on behalf of the s&d group. the assault on the capitol is the appalling result of a populist nationalist rhetoric to undermine the foundations of civil and peaceful coexistence within american society. all democracies are vulnerable, even the ones we thought were the most solid. american democracy is strong and will overcome this crisis. president biden and vice president harris should help create a climate of harmony that heals the wounds of division and polarization. the rejection of foreigners, racism, misogyny, anti-semitism, climate change denial or anti-vaccine activism represent the delusions of an extreme right increasingly present in western democracies. in addition to this illiberal ideology, which promotes fear of the different, let us not forget that the growth of inequalities, tax evasion, deindustrialization and high unemployment have also contributed, of course, to the loss of faith in democracy for millions of people in the united states and the european union. it is time to understand that ignoring the scourge of inequality represents not only an unacceptable moral injustice but also the origin of the worst political cataclysms of the last five years, from brexit to trumpism. we see populisms in turn fuelled by a nativist ideology that rejects societies of human beings equal in rights. the horrific scenes on capitol hill also demonstrate that we need to fight disinformation more effectively and guarantee the right of citizens to receive truthful information. the digital services law proposed by the commission should serve us to regulate the removal of illegal content from online platforms with full respect for freedom of expression. another shared challenge with the biden and harris administrations is the rebuilding of a multilateral system that guarantees respect for democratic norms and institutions. in the social democratic family we are committed to a revitalized transatlantic partnership. we need to formulate joint strategies within the framework of the paris agreement on climate change, the nuclear agreement with iran, the world health organization, the world trade organization. let us not fall into a false debate which forces us to choose between the european agenda and the transatlantic agenda. a european union with strategic autonomy would be the best partner for the united states. on both sides of the atlantic we have to learn that democracies are being built every day. let us be aware of what we are playing for and let us not forget what the second president of the united states, john adams, had in mind at the founding of his country: freedom, once lost, is lost forever. it is in our hands to preserve it.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, the attack on the capitol and on the foundation of democracy was outrageous. while shocking and in extreme contrast to america’s political tradition, this event has easily recognisable roots — populist, the pursuit of individualistic interest while in public office, extreme polarisation and huge lies, made up and propagated even by the country’s highest office. no democracy in the world is immune to these dangers. in europe there are numerous politicians that flirt with the same recipe and it is our duty to stand by our values, confront them and call a lie a lie. dear colleagues, today’s inauguration of the 46th president, joe biden, and of the vice-president, kamala harris, gives a new opportunity to the united states and to the transatlantic partnership. it is an opportunity we europeans and americans cannot miss. we need to roll up our sleeves and reshape our long-standing partnership. let’s put trade tensions behind us, as our farmers, for instance, are eager for a moratorium on the sanctions, and let’s build a common vision on how to deal with our common challenges. let’s level up our commitment to fight climate change and openly discuss how to deal with digital giants — two very important files for both europeans and americans — and let’s identify how to support countries in the world to recover from the pandemic and back on track. and, most importantly, we europeans should seize mr biden’s proposal to build an alliance of democratic countries that cherish freedom and respect human rights, while we in parliament should be a strong partner for this initiative. we can prove to the world that democracies are resilient, fit for the challenges of this new century and ready to fight populist disinformation and authoritarianism. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, the shocking scenes from washington have not materialised out of thin air. they were the direct result of trump egging them on, but also of four years of daily lies, a contempt for facts, of relentless attacks on free media and portraying dissenting opinion as evil or a conspiracy. and this proves that even the strongest democracies are vulnerable when challenged on a steady and aggressive basis. i very much hope that the inauguration today goes well and smoothly, and i wish president biden a lot of success. dear colleagues, imagine that the riots to overturn a free and fair election would have happened here at the european parliament or in the parliament of one of the member states. sounds unbelievable, sounds far away? but do we really think in europe we are safe from the threats of populism and demagogues, from disinformation and attacks to overthrow the rule of law? remember the brexit campaign five years ago, filled with blatant lies and false promises. think of the polish government’s unbelievable disregard for women’s ownership of their own bodies. think of what we sometimes hear here in this chamber. and perhaps most emblematic: don’t forget viktor orbán’s systematic dismantling of hungary’s rule of law, blaming every imaginable or unimaginable foreign foe, from george soros to migrants, to indeed the eu itself. and let’s keep all of this in mind when looking at the events across the atlantic. those events should inspire humbleness rather than fuel a false belief that we’re safe from all of this in the eu. we must learn from those shocking events in washington. firstly, we should take seriously those who announce that they want to destroy democracy. many participants in the capitol riots had announced their intentions in plain view. it shouldn’t have come as a surprise. far-right groups are also underestimated in europe. they commit murders, they purchase weapons, and yet there’s very little attention to what they’re planning. they are a real threat, both on this side and on the other side of the atlantic. and secondly, let’s remember that democracies are fragile and are always ‘work in progress’, and the eu has not always been agile enough to prevent the erosion of rule of law in several member states. we must relentlessly work to safeguard fundamental rights and rule of law. and thirdly, we need to look into the role of the social media tech giants in this crisis. disinformation, amplified by algorithms, has divided societies and has even cost human lives. at the same time, the cooperative executives have acquired unbelievable power. so let’s bring social media under democratic scrutiny. that can wait no longer.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the united states has always been a beacon of freedom. i wonder how long that will last. nobody disputes that the breach of the capitol was a criminal act and that the perpetrators have to be punished. the question is: where does the united states go from here? freedom of expression is under siege. big tech companies cancel accounts arbitrarily, rather than on the basis of democratically adopted legislation. as rapporteur of the competition report 2020, i’m of the view that big tech companies abuse their dominant position. their power must be broken. if need be, structural unbundling should be the reply. democrats are traumatised after four years of trump. i can understand that. but revenge, retribution, exclusion and cancelling 74 million voters is not the answer. we can agree that many of the divisions in the united states are also found in our societies. the new incumbents – and i wish them luck today – should refrain from criminalising dissent. raising inconvenient questions is the core of democracy. if politicians and media do precisely that, censorship will prevail and the us will become the people’s republic of america. that would mean the end of freedom in the entire world.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not four years of trump have undermined confidence in us democracy, weakened organizations like the united nations and the world health organization, and destroyed and terminated international agreements. that is why the inauguration of joe biden today is associated with hope, but above all with expectations of a different policy of the united states. the shocking images of the storming of the capitol and the failed coup attempt did not just appear out of nowhere, as other colleagues have pointed out. democracy in the united states has been under constant attack from the white house for the past four years. democracy is in danger, and not just in the united states, where we have also seen the rise of a new fascist movement, but democracy is also under attack in other regions, including here in the middle of the european union, and enemies of democracy who have aligned themselves with trump in recent years are also sitting in this house. some have already spoken, others will do so in the course of this debate. the transatlantic relationship must be turned upside down in the future, and this, in the view of my group, will result in very specific demands to the administration of joe biden, which will certainly be met with broad support here in the house. firstly, a return to multilateralism: instead of further weakening international organisations such as the united nations or the world health organization, we need to strengthen them. secondly, a common policy to protect the climate. the united states' announced re-entry into the paris agreement on climate change is a welcome first step. thirdly, working together to establish a stable world peace order. this concerns relations with china as well as with russia. but that also means nuclear disarmament and the re-entry of the united states into the anti-nuclear agreement with iran. fourthly, us policy must be geared to restoring and strengthening democracy by defending citizens' rights and freedoms, but also by decisively combating social inequality, which is increasingly undermining social cohesion in the us, but also here in germany, in the european union. if we really want to protect democracy, we must finally find the courage to limit the economic and political power of the big corporations and the super-rich and redistribute social wealth. that is true on this side of the atlantic and on the other.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the united states is a natural partner of the european union, a fundamental ally of our values, rights and multilateralism, but our mutual friendship has been neglected for the past four years, and the whole world has been affected. the outgoing president has pursued policies which have proved harmful to the european union, almost breaking the deep bond that unites us. it is time to put an end to the harmful antagonisms and to re-establish our commercial, political and human ties. that is what the citizens are asking for. that is why i hope that president biden will immediately show his good will and abolish american tariffs on european products, thus putting our relations back on track. moreover, if we are to maintain a positive aspect of the presidency just concluded, i hope that it will not involve your country in further external conflicts and that it will strengthen the citizens' confidence in democratic institutions. i conclude by congratulating president biden on his victory. the world expects a lot from him.
madam president, mr president, colleagues, relief and hope are probably the dominant sentiments in europe at the end of the trump presidency and many speeches here this morning have underlined this. but relief and hope must not mean euphoria and amnesia for us europeans. our historical, cultural, commercial and security links with the united states, and the special place of this great country in the world, naturally make it our priority and privileged partner. the new administration, which respects this transatlantic link and is keen to re-establish relations of trust with its allies, can therefore only be welcomed. our interests often converge but they are not always identical, which is why the euphoria i sometimes note here would not be a responsible attitude. action will be needed to overcome real issues, such as the notoriously unfair trade surcharges that are plaguing some of our sectors. and it is the burgundy that tells you that wine taxes are particularly incomprehensible to people who love the united states. it should also be remembered that the trump parenthesis is not entirely accidental. you get so excited about him leaving, you forget why he came and how he won four years ago. in a 1941 text, in the midst of a dark period, raymond aron, updating the lessons of the great greek thinkers, explained to us how democracies perish from within, with the deadly danger of demagogues who take advantage of their weaknesses, their contradictions, but also the lack of results of public policies. let us remember this in the united states and here in europe. the perspective we must build with the united states must be made with lucidity, not naivety.
madam president, in just a matter of hours, reason and leadership and loyalty to the values of the us constitution will return to the white house. and let me congratulate soon-to-be president biden and, in particular, the first female vice-president of the united states, kamala harris, on this historic day. today is historic for multiple reasons. never has the threat of violence loomed so large over the inauguration of an american president. and the wounds of four years of lies, disarray and division run deep. the incoming biden-harris administration will have to reunite the american people, heal these wounds and build back better. not only do the american people need that, but so do our transatlantic relations. from today on, the us, the eu and all democratic allies must take responsibility as a team. together, we must tackle this covid crisis, the climate crisis and the global crisis of democracy, side by side as equal partners with equal responsibilities.
madam president, biden’s inauguration is a victory for democracy. but even with biden, it cannot be business as usual. first, we need to redefine our transatlantic relationship by establishing a stronger and more integrated european pillar, especially in defence. and secondly, we have to increase our fight against at least a dozen mini-trumps in europe who try to poison democracy on this side of the pond: farage, who manipulated brexit with lies; orbán, who is killing hungary’s democracy further every day; and then i don’t even talk about salvini, le pen and dewinter. people vote for these pied pipers of hamelin because they feel insecure about their future, so the best way to fight them is not to wait for biden, but to speed up european cooperation and integration – the covid recovery fund, the euro bonds, the european health union, the role of frontex – that’s what we need to kill the trump virus here in europe.
i have to say, madam president, president joe biden is facing the titanic task of bringing a deeply divided society back from the brink and reintegrating it into the international community at the same time. what gives hope is the millions of young americans who have worked so idealistically for the united states of civil rights that they were able to prepare the conservative billionaires and the evangelicals behind trump for this election defeat. we can't do it without her. black lives matter. trump lived on conflict and destruction of what is. no previous us president has started more trade wars than he has. the eu and the us must now also reorient their economic and trade policies so that they do not only serve the big players, but actually improve the living conditions of all citizens. the potential of the usa, the eu, china and many others must be harnessed to finally tackle the central issues for humanity together. the un has already agreed on the 17 sustainable development goals to help us achieve this by 2030. this is the task we must jointly shape in our partnership with the united states.
madam president, today the entire world is looking at washington dc as mr joseph biden is inaugurated as the 46th president of the united states. president biden deserves all the best wishes for the enormous challenges that are lying ahead of him. today’s inauguration certainly opens a new chapter for our american friends, but it also opens a new chapter in our transatlantic relations, which have been under such tremendous pressure since 2017. strategic goals are important. they are crucial for our relations, to renew the trust that is at the heart of our alliance, to agree on a common strategy to address global challenges, and to adapt our political, military, technological and economic cooperation, so that we have the most effective alliance for protecting freedom, securing peace and supporting a rules-based order in an increasingly challenging world. as commission president ursula von der leyen pointed out this morning, there are certainly massive challenges we should tackle jointly, such as the covid-19 pandemic, the economic recovery, trade and digital technology, climate change and, of course, foreign policy and security issues. so let us give a fresh impetus to our transatlantic relations. things can only get better, and i am convinced they will get better.
madam president, for 70 years the international order, the representation of democratic values, has been based on cooperation between the us and the european union. for the last four years we have lost our transatlantic partner. congratulations to president biden and vice-president harris. our hopes and expectations are that the new administration will seek to refresh our relations on what we are — allies working together for a multilateral system based on fair rules, shared values, democracy and the rule of law. but the european union has to strive to redefine the relationship as one of an equal to an equal. that also requires bigger investments from our side. where we agree, we should act together. where we disagree, like regulating giant tech companies, we should negotiate our differences and reach common solutions. the united states is much better than the events we witnessed two weeks ago and i firmly believe that our cooperation partnership can be much better than it is today.
madam president, a few hours ago the 45th president of the united states issued his farewell address. today he will be leaving in a separate ceremony. he spoke of unity yet departs the white house through a separate door. he spoke of having started no new wars, yet i remind him that he brought no new peace either. on 6 january i was astonished to see the mob trample over george washington’s tomb in the congress rotunda, and no one even stopped, because no one even knew any more that it was there. it made me think whether we do enough about democracy education, whether we speak enough of it, whether we are compassionate when we speak about it. could this happen here, monsieur le president, frau präsidentin? here in this parliament or there at the berlaymont, or in the bundestag or casa poporului in romania, where i come from? if the answer is yes, then we have our work cut out for us. frau präsidentin, mr giuliani encouraged the mob to do trial by combat. i encourage you to do justice by education, by cooperation, by love.
madam president, the inauguration of the new us administration is an opportunity for a global geostrategic reconfiguration and for strengthening relations between the united states and the european union in a context of pandemic and the growing threat of populism and authoritarianism in the world. trump's tenure leaves marks that won't be erased by his election defeat. we live in a time when the concept of borders is fading. in a democracy, foreign policy, to have popular legitimacy, has to be understood and accepted internally. that is the case in the united states and that is the case in the european union. strategic autonomy is increasingly a key condition for healthy cooperation. the eu and the us have strong challenges where their cooperation is key: international security, climate change, health, the digitization of societies are at the forefront of the agenda. it is an agenda in which cooperation and competition will go hand in hand and in which the ability to successfully confront a centralised model of competing powers will be decisive. we must be pragmatic, making our values and principles the central axis of transatlantic relations so that the eu-us relationship is a positive sum game for its peoples and for the world.
madam president, it is often said that the us and the eu are founded on the same principles and values, and that is true. but, beyond principles, a partnership is built on trust and reliance. as genuine long-standing partners, we need to know that we can rely on one another in moments of hardship, and this is a moment of hardship for all of us. we need, therefore, to stand by president biden in his efforts to heal the deep fractures of american society, just as president biden needs to stand by us europeans when we are dealing with our own challenges. we can both deliver for all citizens if we work together to fight covid, to restore multilateralism and a global order based on the rule of law, to meet climate objectives, and to face the digital transformation of our societies and economies.
madam president, today's inauguration of joe biden is good news for europe, for america, for the free world. but we must note that the event at the capitol may only be the final signal. after two years of street demonstrations in the great democracies of europe and america, it all culminated on january 6th, the events at the capitol. we have to ask ourselves why populists succeed in europe and america. we need to see what's wrong with our economic, social and political system. and my belief is that the european union, together with the united states, needs to reshape the process of globalization.
in writing. – it is with the utmost pleasure that i welcome the inauguration of the 46th president of the united states of america, joseph biden. i hope that the auspices of his tenure will be favourable both to usa—eu relations, and also for our friends and allies all over the globe. the incoming administration’s messages are most encouraging and, even if this will not materialise in a return to the old order to which we were all accustomed, it will for sure represent a strengthening of our historic and, i emphasise, natural alliance. even at the low points of our relationship, the us was a committed ally. we can again work together to restore and deepen relations and focus on mutual interests. the bilateral relationship must be built with the desideratum of restoring a true multilateral order, especially in these trying times for humanity and for the planet we inhabit. the responsibility is now, probably, much higher than it was during the second world war and the ensuing cold war era; we must now work together to actively protect our ideals, secure recovery and future prosperity and protect our planet.
in writing. a new era has begun in us domestic and foreign policy. the prospects for a rapid improvement in european-us relations under president biden are very good. rapid positive developments in the intensification of eu-us cooperation can be expected, for example in the fight against climate change, where president biden has already decided to rejoin the paris climate agreement, and also in trade relations. i'm sure that biden's presidency will also create a more positive atmosphere within nato. biden was also one of the supporters of estonia's accession to nato at the time. estonia has nothing to gain from good relations between the eu and the us.
in writing. – the inauguration of the new us president joe biden represents for the eu an opportunity to relaunch transatlantic cooperation, which has severely suffered in the last four years. trump’s unilateral action, withdrawals from treaties and international organisations often led to a divided and less stable society as well as a deterioration of our eu-us relations. the eu and the us were the oldest and the most trusted allies. the recent events in washington showed us how fragile democracy could be. therefore, now more than ever, the us and the eu must act as partners and together rebuild the multilateral system based on our shared values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. only together are we more powerful to face the threats posed by extremists and populism that are challenging our democracies, tackle the emerging problems due to the global pandemic, climate change and digitalisation and finally secure the peace, prosperity, security, freedom and human rights equality.
in writing. president joe biden is called upon to lift the united states out of the crisis of extreme division and to halt the growing global imbalance. american society has reached a dangerous point of tension after years of incitement to intolerance and violence. the biden administration must heal america's wounds, but also step into the doorstep of a world more entangled than ever since the end of the cold war. the us withdrawal has left room for the offensive of the eastern imperialisms. there is an urgent need for a resumption of the transatlantic relationship, for close cooperation in the face of the geostrategic and economic challenges that the democratic world is increasingly facing. it has become clear, under the accelerator of the pandemic, that it is imperative that we act together, the eu and the us, in a partnership of the strength that confronted the dictatorships of the last century. we who have known the horrors of communism in the east understand well the stakes of the current attempt to reconfigure the balance of power in the world. therefore, in the spirit of solidarity enshrined in article 5 of the north atlantic treaty, it is time to affirm unequivocally the euro-american will to allow no further steps by aggressive dictatorships - from their interference in our democratic processes and harmful initiatives like nord stream 2 to the threat of military action and even the use of force.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on the presentation of the portuguese presidency's work programme (2020/2928 ((rsp)).
acting president of the council. mr president of the european parliament, madam president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, presidents of the political groups, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, with the covid-19 pandemic, europe is facing its greatest challenge since the second world war. in less than a year, families have been torn apart with the loss of almost half a million human lives and we have been dragged into a devastating economic and social crisis in all 27 member states. but this crisis has also proved the added value of the european union in providing equal access for all european citizens to the coveted covid vaccine, in the joint and robust response to the economic and social crisis, and in ensuring financial stability. i would like to commend the tireless work of the commission, parliament, the european central bank, the president of the council, mr charles michel, and the croatian and german presidencies in the european response to this dramatic crisis. the start of the vaccination process and the approval of the multiannual financial framework and the eu next generation programme open a door to hope. portugal is therefore assuming the presidency of the council at a decisive moment to put into effect, to implement and to put into practice the historic decisions we have taken in recent months. that's why we chose as our motto: time to act: for a fair, green and digital recovery. the european council has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners. the first condition of recovery is the success of the vaccination process. it is essential that we continue to work in a coordinated way because only together will we be able to defeat the virus, restoring full freedom of movement and the full potential of the internal market. but also the indispensable international solidarity for the eradication of the pandemic on a global scale, whether in our neighbourhoods, whether on the african continent, whether in latin america. in parallel, we must implement the instruments for economic and social recovery. on the one hand, the new next generation eu. this requires that national parliaments complete the ratification processes for the own resources decision, that this parliament can vote on the already agreed regulation and that the 27 national recovery and resilience plans can be approved. because if we are to overcome this crisis, we must do so together throughout the union. on the other hand, we must also start implementing the programmes of the new multiannual financial framework, particularly those which, thanks to the determination of this european parliament, have benefited from a major boost, such as the horizon europe, eu4health or erasmus+ programmes. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the utmost attention that the fight against the pandemic requires of us all cannot allow us to overlook the strategic challenges we have had and continue to have ahead of us. the european recovery must therefore be based on the drivers of the climate and digital transition. we have a health emergency, but we still have a climate emergency. we have a planet to protect and we can't afford to waste any more time. it is therefore urgent to implement the european green deal, starting with the adoption of the new climate law, which i regard as one of our main political objectives. we are ready to work with you, ladies and gentlemen, to get a political agreement from this parliament as soon as possible. this is indeed the decade of decision, which will require greater effort and ambition to achieve our commitment to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. but this is also the decade of digital europe. a day without digital betting is another day behind in this demanding global competition in which europe must be at the forefront. in this respect, we will pay particular attention to the new digital services package that the commission has just presented, which offers us key legislative instruments for protecting individual rights and democratic sovereignty and for bringing more competition to the digital market by stimulating entrepreneurship and creativity. in short, recovery cannot be limited to responding to the needs of the present with sets of stimulus for the economy. recovery has to be based on investments and reforms that allow us to come out of this crisis more resilient, more green, more digital than we were before this crisis. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the climate and digital transitions are essential, unforeseen and exciting social changes. but i am very concerned about small and mediumsized enterprises and millions of european workers. companies fear losing competitiveness by failing to keep up with the investment effort required by modernisation. workers fear for the future of work, their own workplace, new forms of work and the virtualization of hard-won social rights over the years. therefore, in line with the european parliament's report 'a strong social europe for just transitions', our second priority is to make the european union's social pillar a reality as a basis for europeans' confidence in europe's ability to lead the climate and digital transitions. we need to strengthen skills - new skills, upskilling, reskilling - so that our citizens are actors and not victims of these transitions. we need to invest more in innovation to strengthen the competitiveness of our businesses and we need to strengthen social protection to ensure that no one is left behind. the central event of our presidency will be the social summit, which we will organise in may in porto with the social partners, civil society, the presidents of the institutions and the member states. the main objective of this summit is to give a strong political impetus to the action plan that the commission will present in march and which materializes the ambition expressed by our citizens to put into practice the 20 general principles proclaimed in 2017 in gothenburg. there's no time to lose here either. it is time to act here too. the development of the social pillar is fundamental to giving europeans confidence that the changes we are experiencing are not a threat but can and must be an opportunity. the populists who undermine our democracies feed on fear, and implementing the social pillar is therefore the best vaccine against inequality, fear and populism. finally, our third priority will be, as i have already said, to strengthen the strategic autonomy of a european union open to the world. as this pandemic has shown, europe cannot be totally dependent on third-party supplies of essential goods. we must therefore strengthen our strategic autonomy. this is a very demanding debate because it involves industrial policy, competition policy and trade policy. but it cannot mean either a protectionist drift or the miraculous promotion of 'european champions', wasting the enormous advantage of the capillarity of an economic system based on small and medium-sized enterprises and a system of research, development and innovation spread over 27 member states. finally, strengthening strategic autonomy also means affirming europe as a global player, valuing, as our citizens ask us to do, the social and environmental standards that distinguish us and make us proud. we naturally want to continue to strengthen our neighbourhood partnerships, east and south, and our strategic partnership with the african continent and our transatlantic relations with the united kingdom and the united states of america. and on this day when president joe biden takes office, i cannot help but wish him the greatest successes in his mandate and to mention the need to relaunch ever closer relations with the united states and also not to forget that the united kingdom, a new neighbour but an old ally, will always remain a great partner of the european union. the main mark of our presidency for the indo-pacific region will be to promote a closer and more strategic partnership between the two largest democracies in the world, the european union and india. we will host an eu-india summit also in porto, focusing on cooperation on digital, trade and investment, pharmaceuticals, science and space. a final word on a central issue in europe's relationship with the world: migration. we are aware of the different sensitivities that exist, but migration has been a reality for as long as there have been humans on the planet. and it will continue to be so as long as the human race can survive. it is also undeniable that its management requires common european action. we must therefore continue to work on the new pact on migration and asylum, trying to find the right balance between its internal and external dimensions, without forgetting legal migration. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to act on the vaccination process, it is time to act on economic and social recovery, it is time to act to develop the social pillar, it is time to act to strengthen the strategic autonomy of a union open to the world, but it is also time to act for the future of europe. and that is why we need the conference on the future of europe as a forum for debate between member states and with our citizens about what we want to build together as a union in the future. the conference should focus on the aspirations and anxieties of citizens and not on the issues of the institutions. the conference must be geared to common policies and responses to the strategic challenges we face in an increasingly less eurocentric world. as the presidency of the council, we will do everything to ensure that the conference can be launched as soon as possible so that we can conclude it with an open and enlightening debate. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude. it was the values of europe that brought portugal to europe. it was the will to consolidate the democracy that had been regained, to be able to share a common space of freedom, security, peace and prosperity after 48 years of dictatorship, the longest in europe in the 20th century. we therefore know very well that respect for the rule of law is a necessary condition for membership of the european union and, within the framework of our presidency of the council, we will continue the processes under way in this field. the challenges ahead are immense. but based on the work done by the commission, the parliament, the council, i believe that we are all now better equipped to overcome this pandemic, to overcome this unprecedented crisis and to build a better future together. that's why we took the presidency with a very clear motto: time to act, for a just, green and digital recovery. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. ladies and gentlemen, i had the privilege of starting the new year with a visit to lisbon. this city of renewal and new beginnings was the ideal place to discuss our political priorities with the portuguese government and parliament. once again, dear antonio, thank you very much for your hospitality. ladies and gentlemen, it is in times of great upheaval that our social fabric is most tested. we see in europe and the rest of the world that demographic, societal and technological changes have been happening faster than our ability to meet people's expectations. for too many people, it is a source of frustration and division. but their expectations have not changed. their expectations have not changed. they want jobs for a decent living, they want fairness, equality and social protection in times of need. they want to know that if they work hard and do their fair share they won't lose out. these are the unwritten rules and norms that make up our social market economy. but while expectations have not changed, society and economy have, and our current rules are based on old realities. they do not entirely reflect any more the speed and the scale of transformations we are embarking on. so, as we overcome the pandemic, as we prepare necessary reforms, and as we accelerate the twin green and digital transitions, i believe it's time to also adapt the social rule book. a rule book which ensures solidarity between the generations, a rule book that rewards the entrepreneurs who take care of their employees, which focuses on jobs and opens up opportunities, which puts skills, innovation and social protection on an equal footing. the good news is that with next generation eu we have all chosen to recover from this crisis together, rather than scrap for ourselves and widen social disparities. with our sure programme we have shown our commitment to protect jobs and workers. this has helped provide eur 90 billion to support employees and employers in 18 member states of the european union, but there is much more to do. this is why we will update our industrial strategy to make sure we can create quality jobs in the post-pandemic world, because the green digital and fair recovery must be a jobs recovery. in the next month we will address some of the underlying societal trends. in march, indeed, we will bring forward our action plan on the european pillar of social rights, and i am looking forward to the social summit in porto in may where we can send a united message, together with the social partners, with trade unions, with employers' unions and the eu institutions. i want to thank you, antónio, for your leadership on this. honourable members, as we all know, any recovery depends on overcoming the pandemic. i will not repeat what you already heard yesterday in your debate on the vaccine strategy, but i want to say this. staying united at 27 on vaccines was the best choice. it was europe at its best. and if anyone has any doubts, i simply urge you to look at the list of the top 50 countries in the world that have vaccinated the highest percentage of their population. all 27 member states are on that list. without a common eu approach, how many member states would have been on that list? without a common eu approach how many member states would not have been able to negotiate a single contract? what would it have meant for our union if one member state had vaccinated almost all of its citizens before others have even started. but by working together the commission was able to secure the broadest portfolio of vaccines in the world. as you know, this gives us access to 2.3 billion doses and this is more than enough for europe, and our neighbourhood. and a word on our neighborhood. we need to support them to start vaccinating their frontline workers, from the western balkans to the eastern partnership, to our african partners in the south. this is why the commission is proposing an eu vaccine-sharing mechanism. this will channel vaccines either directly or through the covax facility, in which the eu is the largest contributor, to low and middle-income countries. in total, team europe has already provided almost eur 40 billion of support to our partners since last april, and we need to show the same leadership when it comes to vaccines. i know some will ask how we can talk about sharing vaccines with others when we are not all vaccinated ourselves. to them i say: this is not only a matter of solidarity, but also a matter of self-interest. we will only come out of this pandemic together. this is true for our health. this is true for our economies. this is true for our supply chains, and this is also true for our geopolitical credibility and influence. those who show support to their partners with doses and deeds will not be forgotten. but those who do not will be remembered, but for very different reasons, and i am determined that europe must be on the right side of history and humanity and i know this house feels the same way too. honourable members, the following is the it's a race against time. we are getting an unprecedented speed. if we have managed to develop the material in ten months, it usually takes ten years. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation of the steel industry in the community. but we will overcome, and we will be done with. but yesterday also gilt, that it is only gelingt, wenn wir gemeinsam handeln. i will tomorrow on the videoconference with the heads of state and government address the following key points: we must be quick to vaccinate. the tempo in europe is not much different. we must support the enterprises more in this, increase production capacity, and we can do that, and we are already on the way to do it. and we must closely monitor the spread of the new virus variants. the spread of these variants is a cause for severe concern. this is indeed a race against time. the eu urgently needs to speed up genome sequencing. currently only one member state is testing above 1% of positive tests, and many have not even yet started. this makes it very difficult to identify the progress of the variants or to detect potential new ones. we should aim for every member state to scale up sequencing to 5% to 10% of the positive tests. and i know not every country has the capacity to do so, but our agency, ecdc, does and every member state has access to that capacity, but only two so far have used it. my last point is about preserving our single market. the message is clear. the blanket closure of borders in this situation makes no sense. they harm the functioning of the single market and they are not as effective as targeted measures, and that is why we need a common approach to testing, tracing, travel and borders, and the commission has put everything on the table to ensure that we can do that. honourable members, all of this will take continued efforts from us all and i am delighted that we will have the portuguese presidency alongside us to make it happen. together we will overcome the pandemic and, as the portuguese presidency so aptly says in its motto, it's time to deliver. (applause) i would like to thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, a warm welcome to the new portuguese presidency and a warm welcome to prime minister costa. it is good to have you here in the european parliament. the portuguese people know how important a united europe is. the portuguese people know and believe that to be a european is not losing anything but winning a lot. having the history of portugal in mind, i think it’s obvious that you are looking beyond the horizon, you are looking for new things, and you are not afraid of the unknown. this spirit is exactly what europe needs now, the spirit of an explorer. so welcome, it is good to have you here. ich möchte natürlich auch zunächst auf das thema covid eingehen, weil uns das alles in diesen nächsten sechs monaten unter der portugiesischen präsidentschaft weiter beschäftigen wird. historische krise, und im start 2021 zeigen wir, dass wir besser sind, als wir im jahr 2020 zu beginn der krise waren. ich möchte für die evp-fraktion die ansätze von ursula von der leyen voll unterstützen. wir wollen keine erste und zweite klasse europäer auf diesem kontinent. wir sind alle gleich und hatten die chance, auf den impfstoff zum gleichen zeitpunkt zuzugreifen. wenn es jetzt kritik gibt an der europäischen union: letzte woche durfte ich in einem gespräch mit dem ceo von biontech erleben und lernen, dass biontech vor 15 jahren eu-gelder bekommen hat. ohne diese eu-gelder würde es die forschungserfolge von biontech nicht geben. wir europäer haben es möglich gemacht, dass wir so schnell eine antwort darauf gegeben haben. darauf sollten wir stolz sein. jetzt gilt es, die lieferengpässe zu überwinden, die bereitgestellten impfdosen auch wirklich zu impfen, dass die behörden vor ort das umsetzen. wir brauchen den impfnachweis für die europäische union, dass es keine fragmentierung gibt beim impfnachweis, und wir sollten stolz sein auf das, was erreicht worden ist. das sollte uns motivieren, im kampf gegen alzheimer und im kampf gegen krebs jetzt die gleichen ambitionen an den tag zu legen, genauso schnell voranzukommen, wie wir es bei corona geschafft haben. das zweite, was uns umtreibt, ist natürlich die wirtschaftliche entwicklung. die volksrepublik china hatte im letzten jahr 2 % wirtschaftswachstum – ein plus von 2 % – und wir europäer fast 8 % minus. die gewichte auf dieser welt werden gerade fundamental neu verteilt, und deswegen muss das jahr 2021 ein jahr sein, wo wir über jobs, jobs, jobs reden, über ökonomische fragen reden. wir unterstützen dabei die priorität eines sozialen europas, und das wichtigste beim sozialen europa ist, dass unsere menschen arbeitsplätze haben, dass vor allem die junge generation arbeitsplätze hat. eine neue verlorene generation muss unter allen umständen vermieden werden. das ist die idee der sozialen marktwirtschaft, und in dem zusammenhang, herr premierminister, möchte ich unterstreichen, dass handel für europa wichtig ist. sie als portugiesischer premierminister wissen ob der bedeutung der kontakte zu unseren südamerikanischen freunden: mit mercosur liegt da ein abkommen auf dem tisch, und da brauchen wir jetzt eine portugiesische regierung, die uns das momentum zeigt, dass diese abkommen richtig und wichtig sind. zu guter letzt: 2020 ist das jahr der krise, 2021 hoffentlich das jahr des aufbruchs, und deswegen hoffe ich auch, dass sie mit der konferenz zur zukunft europas beginnen können, dass sie durchstarten. die zeit des krisenmanagements sollte vorbei sein, wir sollten jetzt über die zukunft europas reden, und der lissabon-vertrag zeigt ja, dass wir derzeit auf portugiesischen wurzeln arbeiten. wenn jetzt portugal das neue kapitel aufschlägt, wäre es ein tolles signal. alles gute für die präsidentschaft!
i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his excellent report. we are in an exceptional situation with a pandemic that has disrupted our lives and had devastating consequences for the global economy. in recent months we have seen how the european union has reacted to coordinate national responses and to avoid harmful competition between us. we have managed to pass an ambitious budget and a recovery plan. the question now is whether all citizens will take note of this joint effort we have made. the union is an area of prosperity and social protection, and we are proud of our model, but let us be honest: it is not the same for everyone. and in recent years, the gap between the highest and lowest wages has widened. not to mention unemployment - especially among young people - energy poverty and the lack of decent housing. the pandemic has exacerbated these inequalities and puts us in front of the mirror as europeans. why does the recovery fund set a minimum of 37% for green investments or 20% for digital transition and does not refer to a threshold for social spending and health systems? the portuguese presidency wants to close this gap and it is therefore crucial to seize the window of opportunity. the covid crisis makes clear the need to act and we have the experience of antónio costa to ensure the right leadership for this historic moment. the presidency's motto could not be more accurate: 'time to act: for a fair, green and digital recovery'. it is certainly time to accelerate our transition to a more sustainable model by taking advantage of new technologies. but let us not forget that recovery, above all, must be fair. the money we are going to invest should help to close the gaps. moreover, the time has come to reform economic governance so that the social pillar is as important as economic growth, and in this we have much to learn from a country like portugal. we should suspend the tax rules until 2023 and use this time to reform them, for example by introducing the golden rule for social investment. one of the key moments will be the social summit in porto in may. there we must put forward an action plan with a clear strategy, with measures and a timetable, and they have the collaboration of my political group. we are concerned about the lack of progress on issues such as child benefit or unemployment insurance, two proposals to which the european commission has committed itself. we ask the portuguese presidency to include in its priorities the creation of a european health response mechanism to make progress in the health union. this social dimension will also be reflected - i am sure - in a special commitment to introduce the gender dimension in all policies, and also to combat all forms of discrimination. and let us not forget one important issue: the new pact on migration and asylum is still pending, which needs a mechanism to give substance to the principle of solidarity and to ensure that our migration policy is in line with our values. finally, i hope that the portuguese presidency will be able to unblock the start of the conference on the future of europe. we have to act responsibly and unlock this situation. let us not be mistaken: what is important at this conference are not the familiar faces, but the voices of millions of european citizens who want to show us the way to the europe to be built.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam president, mr prime minister, welcome and good luck with your presidency. your success will be ours too, you have all the prerequisites for success and i know that portugal, given its history and geographical position, knows very well what the added value of the european union is and knows how to add value to the european project. the work we've done in the last few months is titanic. europe has indeed made progress under the strain of this pandemic that many thought impossible just a year ago. but we're only at the beginning. you, mr prime minister, are taking over the rotating presidency of the council at a time when we must transform the test: we must make 2021 the year of rebirth and for that, there is no miracle, we must overcome the pandemic and for that every european must have rapid access to a safe and effective vaccine. i congratulate the commission on what it has achieved, but you know that we are still counting on you to coordinate the vaccination campaign. but we must also heal our economic and social fabric, and i know that is your priority. the historic recovery plan we have agreed on must be put in place as soon as possible and we must be prepared to do more if necessary. recovery must be green, digital, fair and future-oriented. it will therefore be our shared responsibility to ensure that each government implements the necessary reforms and strategic investments so that european money contributes to the development of a new post-covid world. under no circumstances should governments use european money to infuse without ensuring long-term, positive structural effects. we therefore need to rebuild, innovate and transform, building on the green deal and its derivatives such as the circular economy or the carbon footprint at borders. but also by relying on the digital agenda.as you know, there is an urgent need to take control of our destiny in this area, it is both an economic and a social issue and the european commission has put forward an ambitious project. but this rebirth will only really come about if the rule of law is respected from day one. what's the point of investing if we can't even guarantee that the funds won't be misappropriated? this is an existential question for the union. it is a question of preserving our values but it is also a question of efficiency. beyond that, our union should build a common asylum and migration policy: a major issue for the coming months, as well as our relations with our eastern and mediterranean neighbours and the western balkans. i know that our neighbourhood expects a clear vision from the european union on these projects. mr prime minister, nothing is predetermined or written. even though we are still in the midst of a storm, i am convinced that europe must always raise its sails higher and maintain its course, or else drift away. the contours of the post-covid world depend entirely on our commitment, our perseverance and the requirement of our ambition. today, more than ever, we are the authors of our own destiny, and that destiny will be even better defined if we succeed in unlocking this conference on the future of europe, and i am convinced that with the portuguese presidency, in collaboration with parliament, this will be possible.
madam president, we wholeheartedly hope that the portuguese presidency will be a success, because with it the european union will also be successful and the european citizens will benefit enormously. without a doubt, our greatest challenge is to deal with the pandemic and the socioeconomic crisis. we were overwhelmingly in favour of voting for this very positive and historic step, which is the creation of the next generation eu recovery fund, worth 750 billion. but right now, business is in tatters. the workers and citizens of the european union are in a difficult situation and are waiting for this money as a 'manna from heaven' to really help them recover from this difficult period. i fully endorse your priorities, mr president of the council of the european union, mr antónio costa, prime minister of portugal, but i would like you to add one more to those priorities: the safeguarding of european principles, values and law. a country is persistently and continuously violating and undermining the principles and values of the european union and violating european law by continuing to receive funding from the european union; the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with turkey, which is also in breach of the sovereignty of the member states of the european union, greece and cyprus. the european union has shown an unacceptable and abusive tolerance to date. i expect you, mr costa, to give me a clear answer, without any triviality, as regards turkey, as to what your reaction will be to this provocative behaviour by turkey; and i would like to know what you would do as the president and leader of a mediterranean country, portugal, if the same thing happened to you and turkey and your country was greece and cyprus.
i have to say, madam president, the protection of fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law - these are the priorities that the presidency mentions in the same paragraph as protection against terrorism, hate speech and misinformation. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament and the council are able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. yes to speeding up the issue, if the fundamental rights are safeguarded. with terrorist content online, the council couldn't move fast enough. but the e-evidence regulation, to better protect online privacy, we've been open for negotiation since 2017, and member states are blocking it. so while the council is accelerating some measures, it is slowing down the protection of fundamental rights. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. thank you very much and good luck!
madam president, mr prime minister of portugal, madam president of the commission, i hope that, under your auspices, the conference on the future of europe will be able to start shortly. this conference, which is not an end in itself, will, i hope, make it possible to reconcile the citizen with the european political sphere. the citizen will therefore be at the centre of this conference, but let us not be naive, let us not pretend that the citizen is going to reveal only new things to us. we know from surveys, including those conducted by eurostat, that the public is concerned about security, that they want a security and defence policy, that they want us to fight climate change, that they want us to relaunch multilateralism with the biden administration, that they want us to defend public goods. so i would like to introduce a little nuance to your speech, which i really enjoyed. we must also talk about the institutions. if we agree on the objectives, we must also agree on the means of implementing them. i also count on you, as a convinced european, to ensure that this subject does not remain taboo, as it would be a missed opportunity.
the chairman of the counting session, madam president, the honorable mr. prime minister. first of all, of course, i would like to thank you for presenting the objectives of the portuguese presidency. in today's health and economic crisis, we need to make truly forward-looking decisions, because the global race to recover from the crisis has been going on for some time. a rapid recovery is vital for europe, and our competitiveness depends very much on the decisions that need to be taken here and now. i am convinced that it is these activities that will make europe more agile, support the wider digital and technological revolution, and enable us to remain at the forefront of global competition. but, mr prime minister, competitiveness also means the ability to provide our people with healthy and affordable food produced in europe. this is the main objective of the common agricultural policy. i very much hope that portugal will be able to ensure that european farmers are not discouraged from pursuing their activities under the aegis of the herbivores in the trilogues on the common agricultural policy. the role of the european commission, and in particular of vice-president timmermans, in the trilogues has been ideological and agricultural-concerned rather than balancing and solution-oriented. i hope that portugal will stand up for the interests of european farmers during its presidency and that the outcome of the talks will be favourable to farmers. thank you.
madam president, madam president of the commission, mr prime minister, dear mr antónio, may i begin by welcoming you to what has been and will always be your home, the home of european democracy. it is often said that crises create opportunities for the european union, and last year, unfortunately, there was no shortage of them. now is the time to act on the challenges and opportunities, as your presidency's motto says. first, by overcoming the pandemic with a vaccination campaign based on transparency and european cooperation, eliminating health nationalisms. second, by tackling economic and social recovery with the arrival of european funds for a just and inclusive green and digital transition that leaves no one behind. the social pillar must therefore be given concrete form with a real action plan and concrete measures. and no one better than the portuguese presidency to achieve this, paying particular attention to gender equality and the fight against poverty. good luck and keep going!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, first of all, prime minister costa, the presidency of the council under your leadership has begun during unprecedented times. as we heard this morning, important priorities are on your agenda, such as tackling the covid-19 pandemic and ensuring europe’s economic recovery. colleagues, i welcome in particular the fact that portugal has decided to focus strongly on external affairs in the upcoming months. as we discussed yesterday with the high representative during the debate on our common foreign and security policy, strengthening multilateralism and affirming the european union as a global player is today more important than ever, and our commission president ursula von der leyen is leading a geopolitical commission, and this for good reasons. prime minister, the proposals from the portuguese presidency to strengthen the eu’s relations with india, with the african continent, and indeed with latin america, especially mercosur, are a key step in promoting the role of the european union on the global stage. the next months will also be decisive in establishing a fruitful cooperation with the united kingdom and with the new administration in the united states. for all these priorities i wish her success. the committee on foreign affairs is looking forward to working closely together with the portuguese government. (applause)
madam president, mr prime minister, resisting to comment on the appointment of a european prosecutor based on false information, which thus compromises the credibility of the prosecutor's office at the very moment it is born, i would like to stress that dr antónio costa receives the leadership of the european union at a time when the covid-19 pandemic is showing signs of absolute out of control and europeans need to look to themselves and trust that they will rise to the challenge. but unfortunately, they look at the disaster in portugal and they have doubts. in a few months, portugal went from being a good student to one of the worst examples in the world. when europe confined, portugal relaxed. when in july the numbers were worse than in march, instead of tightening the requirement, he told people to go to the baths and when in october, november and december the consequences appeared, the absolute reduction of contacts at christmas and new year was not imposed. now that everything is worse, a fake lockdown is ordered that keeps everyone on the street and elections are held that will cause town halls in every village in portugal. does it not make sense that in a european union where people move freely, that each one decides differently on the mechanisms of pandemic control, often by intuition and therefore, i ask and end, what can you say today, here, to reassure europeans and say that you will do much better at the head of 27 countries than you are doing in portugal? vaccination plans, pace, coordination, european solidarity rather than national egotism, these are the issues i leave to you, mr prime minister, and i wish you the best of luck in the role you need at the moment.
madam president, mr prime minister, the portuguese presidency has the right priorities: to overcome the pandemic, to revive the economy, to strengthen europe in the world. when we discuss our common future, it is regrettable that some, fortunately very few, want to use the european parliament stage for their little 'warrior' national politics, but no artificial case should divert the portuguese presidency from what is really important and what is important is to make the portuguese presidency an occasion for the european project to meet the expectations of the citizens, to coordinate the european vaccination strategy, to get the money into the real economy, to align investment with our strategic priorities. in the next six months, portugal will hold the presidency of the council and will also have the secretary-general of the united nations, a great opportunity for the commitment to multilateralism that the world needs and europe too.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, madam president of the commission, dear prime minister, dear antónio, i think that, as you heard from all honourable members, your programme to deliver on a green, digital and social europe resonates very well with this house, and this is exactly what europe now needs and what our citizens expect from us. as mr azmani, ms bonafè, ms jongerius, but also our parliamentary leaders mr weber, mr cioloş and ms garcía pérez said, they all expressed in their interventions also the reference to hope – to hope that we will be able to come back to life as we knew it before covid—19. i think it was also very clear from this debate what we need for that. we need to show the highest respect for eu solidarity and for eu unity. as you know very well, yesterday the commission called upon the member states to get more than 80% of the health workers and more than 80% of elderly over 80 years of age vaccinated by february. we would like to get 70% of the european population vaccinated by the summer. that’s the timeline, that’s the ambition, and that’s the hope, which we hope the european leaders will endorse tomorrow in a videoconference on this very issue. we believe that this is the best path to restore growth, prosperity and to bring us back to the normal joys of life we all miss so much. honourable members, in almost all interventions there was clear reference to the importance of tackling the social consequences and social problems aggravated by the covid-19 crisis. therefore, we in the commission appreciate so much the support of this house for the portuguese presidency’s ambition to complete the work on national recovery plans, to get approval for their own-resources decision, so that we can start the disbursement of money to kick-start our economies also by this summer. the european social summit organised and proposed by the portuguese presidency will be an excellent opportunity to put in practice all the commission’s measures we will prepare under the european pillar of social rights to make sure that nobody is left behind. dear prime minister, honourable members, the presidency of portugal is also opening a new chapter in pursuit of our european geopolitical ambition and the restoration of effective functioning multilateralism. it will be our efforts to help our neighbourhoods and to help the global effort in the vaccination. it will be closer cooperation with democracies, including the summit between the european union and india, which happen to be the two largest democracies on this planet. and you heard also, mr president-in-office, the support of the members of this house for open, strategic autonomy on which we will be working together. on top of it, it will be also under your presidency when we will open a new chapter with the new incoming us biden administration. we start to build a new relationship with the uk as a third country, and we will also push to rebalance the trade and investment relationship with china. dear prime minister, you highlighted how important it is to listen to people and to respond to our citizens, and we all hope, as it was expressed by mr verhofstadt, mr weber and mr séjourné, that under your presidency we will be able to launch a conference on the future of europe and devote it to the debate and, i would underline, listening to our citizens – what they want us to improve and how they want us to shape our europe in the future. and i agree with you that it should be the issues which are closest to their heart we should debate together. to conclude, i would like to assure you, mr president-in-office, that we will be working with you as closely as possible to make sure that, after your presidency, europe will indeed be healthier, greener, more digital and more socially fair. lots of success and best of luck with your presidency, prime minister.
acting president of the council. mr president, madam president of the european commission, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank you for your warm words of encouragement and enthusiasm about the future of the portuguese presidency and i would like to start by congratulating myself on the broad consensus i have found here on the priorities we have set, from the jobs, jobs, jobs objective formulated by mr weber to the call for a social emergency by mrs aubry. it is, after all, a matter of pursuing a common objective of making the economic and social recovery of europe a priority. this recovery cannot be just any recovery. it has to be a recovery that is focused on our future, on the strategic challenges that we have ahead of us, and therefore it has to be based on what is the great ambition to do this decade, the decade to achieve at least a 55 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and also to make this decade a digital decade. nor can it be a recovery from a social point of view, and here, as mrs iratxe said, the social question is absolutely central. this recovery has to be fair, it has to reduce inequalities, it has to create better quality jobs, decent jobs, jobs with rights. that is why we have set the social summit as the major event of our presidency, precisely to extend the spirit of comprehensive social dialogue, which is the commitment that social partners, civil society, european institutions, member states, all of us must make in order to emerge from this crisis stronger than we were when it began. but this process of recovery must also be demanding in respect of the values of the european union, and surely a country which has experienced the longest dictatorship of the 20th century is particularly sensitive to the importance of safeguarding the values enshrined in article 2 of the treaty and of not allowing the procedures under article 7 to be stopped. those who violate the fundamental values of europe cannot be part of the european union. that is why it is absolutely essential not only to ensure respect for the conditionality mechanism that this parliament has approved, but also to ensure respect for and progress in the procedures that are open under article 7. portugal is proud of the path it has taken since 1974 to be an exemplary country in protecting the rule of law. i can indeed be proud that 20 years ago, as minister of justice, i was a witness to the establishment and launch of eurojust and that now it was my government that brought portugal into this enhanced cooperation mechanism, the european public prosecutor's office, which is fundamental to combating corruption and ensuring the proper management of european money, since, until my government, portugal had refused to join this enhanced cooperation mechanism. we are therefore proud to assume our presidency and we are well aware that europe, in today's globalised world, really needs a stronger external presence. it has to be a truly global player, and we will not be a global player by building walls to prevent migration, or closing the doors to the trade relationships that we have to open with every other economy in the world. i understand the debate on mercosur, but the mercosur debate is not primarily an economic debate. we all know that this is the most important trade agreement that europe can conclude, but first and foremost it is an agreement for europe's geopolitics, because in this new global world the atlantic cannot lose its importance by allowing the new centralization of the world to focus on the indo-pacific. we are not ignoring this region and that is why we have made it a priority of our presidency to hold the summit with india, but the atlantic remains our space and that is why, despite the fact that the united kingdom has left, we must have very close relations with the united kingdom. that's why we have to look with hope at this new relationship with president biden. that is why we must celebrate ellalink, physically linking europe to latin america by cable as an element of the utmost importance, but that is also why we need an agreement with mercosur. we are waiting for the conclusions of the commission's studies on the environmental impact of this agreement and on the steps to be taken, but there is something i would like to say quite frankly, because we have to speak frankly: no one should want to hide the methane produced by european cattle in the amazon forest. no, we cannot hide in the amazon rainforest what is really the protectionism of an agricultural policy which must be adjusted to the priorities of climate change and environmental values. the environmental objective must be present in all european policies. i would like to end by talking about the future and the future of europe. we must unblock this little institutional impasse that has already made us lose time to reflect on what europe's ambition is to do together and there is no shortage of topics for europe to discuss in its future: the issue of migration is a crucial issue, the post-covid economic management of our stability and growth pact is a central issue, relations with the african continent are a central issue, the issues of fiscal justice are a central issue. that is why this conference must move forward and nothing justifies small institutional issues blocking what is the future of 450 million citizens. no, this conference must really be about citizenship, about citizens, their aspirations, their fears and not about institutional issues. that is why the motto of our presidency is at the same time to act to ensure a fair recovery, a green recovery and a digital recovery. i thank you all very much and the presidency is counting on the european parliament to carry out our mission. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you prime minister, thank you president. as you have heard, there is great expectation, great confidence in the portuguese presidency and, of course, a great willingness to cooperate. the debate is closed. our work will resume at 15.00 with statements from the council and the commission on the social and employment crisis during the covid-19 pandemic and the eu response through the recovery plan and the mff. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. – i wish good luck to the portuguese presidency in these unprecedented challenges. first, european workers need adequate minimum wages and a coordinated social-security system across eu. this is why putting the european social model at the centre of the portuguese presidency is paramount and in accordance with our common values of solidarity, convergence and cohesion. also i welcome the announcement of the portuguese government regarding the implementation of the green deal, the adoption of the climate law and the decision to promote innovation, digitisation and sustainable resource-management in the rural areas. faced with the covid crisis, european agriculture managed to ensure food security and is certainly something the eu needs to seriously support with regard to future potential challenges. in this context, since portugal will oversee the implementation of the mff and the recovery fund i hope it will do its utmost to guarantee funds for agriculture. by doing so it is respecting the promise that no one will be left behind. however, in order to achieve this, it is essential to understand that not all member states find themselves in the same position, they do not all have the same resources to face this crisis.
2021 will be the year of the start of the implementation of the economic and social recovery plans. a recovery based on three principles that guide the portuguese presidency: environmentally ambitious, based on innovation and digital development, but not forgetting the basic principles of the european pillar of social rights. these are also essential pillars for the negotiations on the reform of the cap, a reform which must be completed in the interests of stability in the sector and rapid progress towards greater environmental sustainability, behavioural change, and stimulation of the development of research and technological innovation. the presidency also faces a number of challenges in the fisheries sector. the pandemic situation and brexit pose many uncertainties that can hamper economic recovery. despite the difficulties, the portuguese presidency is giving an important sign of hope, but also of realism with the priorities it has set for fisheries and the oceans. the fisheries sector can make a major contribution to the implementation of the different strategies to achieve the objectives of the european green deal. the full and fair climate and digital transition will bring environmental, but also economic and social sustainability to all sectors, including fisheries.
in writing. following the heated debates of the previous year and in the context of the economic crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic, the portuguese presidency faces a number of challenges in the field of energy and climate policy. the framework of principles of the european green deal should be given concrete substance in the coming period. this is a complex and important task, for which it is essential to restore citizens' trust in the union's institutions and instruments. the presidency can take important steps in this direction. accordingly, the european climate regulation to be finalised in the coming months should respect people's legitimate wish to return to their pre-pandemic lives. climate action and the green transition must be driven by the interests of citizens, not by the ideological ideas of the european left. in the current economic climate, caution is also needed when designing financial instruments for the energy transition. it is a risky idea to narrow the tax loopholes of the member states by invoking green objectives. the taxonomy regulation on sustainable finance cannot further aggravate the situation of the european industry in crisis. finally, i was pleased to read the ambitious objectives of the portuguese presidency in the field of combating energy poverty and the circular economy. the appropriate regulatory framework for batteries is of paramount importance. the tasks are given, and i wish you success in carrying them out.
in writing. – i welcome the ambition of the portuguese presidency of the eu council to put our eu citizens at the centre of the programme. 2021 needs to rime with hope and solidarity. the programme presented today reflects this objective to strengthen eu citizens’ resilience. in this sense, i also welcome the portuguese presidency for underlining the situation of roma people in europe and their focus to fight poverty, social exclusion and discrimination. i call for the portuguese presidency to be bold and ambitious in the general conclusions and recommendations in the context of the new eu roma strategic framework 2020-2030. we need strong and targeted policies that address the challenges roma communities face on daily basis: lack of education, poor access to public basic services, lack of decent housing, general health problems, discrimination and violence. the european parliament expects the council to take over its recommendations from last year and work towards swift tangible results.
in writing. the portuguese presidency presented its three main priorities: promoting europe's recovery; implementing the union's social pillar; and strengthening europe's strategic autonomy by keeping it open to the world. the presidency will support the creation of a health eu, which strengthens the capacity to respond to public health crises, to produce and distribute safe vaccines, to ensure a universal, simultaneous, public and free vaccination process. the spanish delegation shares these priorities and calls on the presidency to accelerate the transition to a more sustainable model, taking advantage of new technologies and promoting a fair recovery: investment must contribute to reducing inequalities, the wage gap, unemployment and ensuring decent housing for all. we need to reform economic governance so that the social pillar is as important as economic growth, and suspend tax rules until 2023, taking this time to reform them, introducing, for example, the golden rule for social investment. we must put forward an action plan at the social summit in porto, with measures such as child benefit, unemployment insurance, and the creation of a european health response mechanism to move forward with the european health union.
in writing. portugal takes over the rotating presidency of the european union during a turning point. in addition to containing the coronavirus pandemic, the eu's seven-year budget is now being launched, and a conference on the future of the european community is expected to begin. the portuguese presidency's work programme should give high priority to the broadest possible implementation of the concept of a european health union, initiated by the s&d group and developed in part by me, including the establishment of quality criteria for healthcare systems and the implementation of national stress tests. in this connection, it will be necessary to discuss the possible reformulation of dogmatic principles such as the exclusive competence of the member states in the organisation of health care in the context of the conference on the future of the eu. the outbreak has demonstrated the need for more integrated coordination in health, with the utmost respect for the sovereignty of the member states. the commission should also assess the impact of the measures on the health of the union population, in particular the impact of the new coronavirus pandemic on the health of the population in the union. this requires a coordinated, targeted programme and support at european level, with due regard for the sector that provides jobs for millions of europeans. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new social policy and the implementation of the lisbon strategy, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new social policy.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, the covid—19 pandemic has caused a once—in—a—generation crisis and is having a deep social and economic impact, which is likely to leave its mark on our societies for many years to come. thousands of businesses have temporarily or permanently closed, millions of europeans have lost their jobs and livelihoods, and almost all of us, in our own lives, have experienced a change to and, in some cases, have had to reshape our professional and private lives. all across europe we have witnessed job losses, often with devastating effects for the people concerned, for their families and for the local communities. at the end of last year, almost 16 million people in the eu were unemployed, two million more than the year before. it is an appalling statistic, behind which there are countless people, countless stories, countless issues and the lives of people who were working and have now been pushed into poverty and precarity. the covid—19 pandemic has disproportionately affected the most vulnerable members of our society. it has laid bare existing systemic vulnerabilities and increased social inequalities to the detriment of those most disadvantaged. the pandemic has had a particularly strong impact on women. our response to the continuing crisis and the recovery measures must therefore be designed in a gender—sensitive way. to this end, the portuguese presidency intends to table a set of council conclusions on the impact of covid—19 on gender equality in the labour market. the conclusions will form the basis of a forthcoming research note by the european institute for gender equality. young people will also continue to disproportionately suffer the effects of this crisis. the reinforced youth guarantee, adopted by the council in october, will help member states better respond to the needs of young people and hence better target efficiency and monitoring. we are now in the midst of a third wave of the virus, with even more contagious variants that have prompted stricter lockdowns in many member states. yet, at the same time, we are on the brink of hope that a vaccination can bring about the start of a long road to recovery. so the european social model that provided a cushion of support during this terrible period needs to be reinforced. although this crisis is grave, it would certainly have been far worse without the decisive action of the european union and its member states. at a time of difficulty, the eu showed unity, solidarity and flexibility, first addressing immediate emergency needs and then planning an ambitious recovery to make europe more resilient, more competitive, just and sustainable for all future generations. in the spring of 2020, we adopted the esm pandemic crisis support, the eib pan—european guarantee fund and sure. while member states fortunately did not need to activate their safety nets, thanks to the extremely favourable market financing conditions in 2020, eu workers benefited substantially from the support of sure. all these measures were fundamental to support public action, enterprises and workers. we see that sure has already been almost entirely utilised to support smes. we are also starting to see the benefits of the eib support. as for the recovery phase, we have come a long way since our leaders reached an agreement on the biggest ever mff and on the unprecedented recovery instrument, the next generation eu, in july. these two instruments, amounting to more than eur 1.8 trillion over the next seven years, are endowed with ambitious climate and digital targets and a focus on addressing challenges to employment, sustainability, resilience and competitiveness through reforms and investment. as such, they will enable the eu to provide both a much—needed cyclical stimulus and the right incentives to address structural issues in an ambitious way. while sharing the same objectives, the council and parliament had different views on how to structure this recovery plan. after intense, yet very constructive discussions and trilogues, we found political agreement on an ambitious text, which now needs to be swiftly voted on by the co—legislators, paving the way to the plan’s implementation. the portuguese presidency is indeed committed to steering the eu through a swift and efficient implementation of the instruments agreed in the course of the last year, ensuring a high degree of interinstitutional cooperation, flexibility and determination. addressing the social concerns of covid—19 will be a key priority for our presidency. we will seek to strengthen trust in the european social model, the importance of which became starkly clear during these troubling times. in this context, as you heard our prime minister say in this chamber this morning, the porto social summit that will take place in may will give impetus to the european social dimension and the european pillar of social rights and its implementation plan, emphasising its central role in the european recovery and in adapting to the climate, digital and demographic transitions. we would like this summit to address the issues of employment. this morning, we were talking about jobs, jobs, and jobs. indeed, we need to tackle this issue, and also skills, reskilling, innovation and social welfare to ensure that no one is left behind. resilience is part of the european identity, so to implement the european pillar of social rights is the best vaccine against inequalities and fear. we have to tackle, and act quickly on all these fronts to fulfil the portuguese presidency motto: it’s time to deliver a fair, green and digital recovery. thank you very much for your attention. i will remain here to answer your questions. (applause)
member of the commission. – madam president, 2021 should be the year opening the road to recovery. but this means first that we have to attain the objectives which have been set on the level of vaccination, because to defeat the virus we have to win this battle first. the commission has indicated that our objective should be 70% of people vaccinated at the beginning of, or at least within, the next six or seven months. the second road to recovery is to maintain our strong will to contain the economic and social effects of the crisis thanks to the unprecedented efforts of the eu and the member states. as already described by the president, it is true that economic activity has been strongly impacted over the past year. and the outlook for 2021 remains uncertain because we do not know exactly what the evolution of the pandemic will be; thus the importance of vaccination. the unemployment rate has increased – though it has increased less than one could have feared – and this is because member states reacted, reacted through the introduction of massive short-time work schemes, with the support of the european union. but the statistics do not tell us the whole story, yet millions of people have lost already their jobs and they are mainly the low-skilled, the low-paid workers, the temporary workers, the young on precarious work, and the most vulnerable. precisely the most vulnerable people have been disproportionately hit, and after a clear improvement, poverty and inequalities are again on the rise. moreover, the recovery will likely be uneven across member states, across regions, across economic sectors and categories of workers. therefore, we need a strong solidarity at all levels – at national levels, at regional levels, and, obviously, also at european level. the eu support is all the more important to ensure a sustainable and inclusive recovery and economic and social upward convergence. the eu has been reactive and played a leading role to mitigate the negative effects of the crisis. the eu launched an unprecedented plan for reform and investment worth almost eur 1.8 trillion, made up of long-term investments, financed by the multiannual financial framework, more than one trillion, and one other financial instrument, the next generation eu with eur 750 billion. the recovery and resilience facility will fund reforms, as the president has just mentioned, on the one hand, and investments in every member states. we have to build back better, and here investments are extremely important. we have to support growth and employment while boosting the green and digital transitions. we are not talking about any growth: we want sustainable growth and we want an inclusive growth. cohesion funds have been boosted through the react-eu initiative, increasing the resources of the current programmes to address the social and economic impact of the crisis. the european instrument for temporary support to mitigate unemployment risks in an emergency, better known as sure, has helped and is still helping member states fund their short-time work schemes and similar schemes for the self-employed to mitigate the immediate economic impacts of the pandemic and the necessary confinement measures. in addition, euro area member states agreed to make available a combined volume of around eur 240 billion to help finance health-care, cure and prevention costs due to covid-19 through the european stability mechanism. yet a surge in unemployment may have only been delayed rather than averted. that’s what i meant when i said ‘statistics do not tell us the whole truth’. high risks affecting the labour market exist as many sectors are unlikely to fully recover for some time, and many companies are already experiencing financial distress. while short-time work schemes have been effective in cushioning the blow and continue to be an important element of support at this critical juncture of the pandemic, they cannot be a durable solution, although we have to maintain them where necessary and combined, if possible, also with training and with skilling people in order to offer them new jobs. we need to set the conditions for future sustainable economic growth and a quality job-rich recovery. investments, reforms, active labour market policies and skills for jobs are key. we need a coherent package of active labour-market measures to support structural change and quality job creation by easing business restructuring where needed and facilitating the redeployment of labour, notably towards the green and digital economy, and that’s what the president of the commission, ms von der leyen, said this morning. yes, jobs, jobs, jobs, is key, but we do not want precarious jobs, especially not for the young. we want quality jobs. the modernisation of labour market institutions, promotion of upskilling and re-skilling and reinforcement of social protection and health systems will be crucial to strengthen economic and social resilience and secure growth and employment in europe, also in the medium and long term. this is all the more important as we see that some groups are hit especially hard. we must avert at all costs the risk of a new ‘lost generation’. years of progress in bringing down youth unemployment risk being compromised, in particular with a view to those furthest from the labour market. therefore, it’s now important to implement the youth employment support (yes) programme that the commission launched in july already and to translate it in concrete actions and also to integrate it in the measures financed by the recovery and resilience plans. workers in non-standard forms of employment, above all temporary employees, are particularly vulnerable. women are over-represented in sectors that are at the forefront of fighting the pandemic. women are also particularly affected by the increase in unpaid care and domestic work. equality, therefore, remains high on our agenda, not just for pay, but also for all the opportunities in the economy and therefore will have also, especially in the care sector, where three quarters of workers are women. we have to value this work in terms of recognition but also financial recognition. children in low-income families are also at risk, in particular as distance learning has become a norm for many pupils. it really matters whether you have access to a computer, a good internet connection, a quiet place to study, and parents who are able to support you. there is a new ground for inequality, for inequality of opportunities that we really have to tackle. in general, health, education and social-protection systems, in particular social services, have been put under unprecedented pressure, further exacerbating challenges for people in the most vulnerable situations. this will continue to stress test the capacity of social protection. and finally, this is part of the resilience we have to strengthen. we have to do that in relation to adequacy, coverage and sustainability. this has come to the fore in view of ensuring socially fair transitions. our action plan to further implement the european pillar of social rights is imminent. it will turn the pillar’s principles into concrete action for recovery and renewed upwards convergence in the eu. this will include an update of the pillar’s social scoreboard in a long-term view up to 2030. many measures, from boosting skills to reforms to strengthening social protection systems, to investments in social housing, for children in need can be supported through the new funding instruments established on the next generation eu and the mff. the european parliament and the commission have been able to strengthen the social dimension of the recovery and resilience facility even further, and i’m more than grateful for that work which has been done in parliament. the cohesion policy, including the esf+ and the just transition fund, will also play a critical role in supporting economic recovery, and the european globalisation adjustment fund for displaced workers can support workers who have lost their job due to restructuring. this shows that we have formidable firepower, financially but also the tools, to turn the present challenges into opportunities. while building back our economies and societies, by boosting the green and digital transition, we need to set the conditions for achieving social progress. this is imperative for successful, fair, sustainable and inclusive recovery, and we will all meet in porto to make these objectives very concrete.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the pandemic and fear of job loss are, without doubt, the two biggest concerns of citizens throughout europe right now. all of our political decisions have to keep this in mind. we should do all we can to reduce the risks of the pandemic and the negative effects upon the people, upon the companies of europe and upon the regions, and we have to do all we can to support the process of job creation. unemployment is still projected to rise this year; we do not know exactly how much it will increase, because we will only know the magnitude of the economic crisis after covid-19, after the lockdowns and once the economy returns to its full potential of activity. we therefore have to do two things for the time being: firstly, implement the decisions that we have taken; and secondly, stand ready to do more if needed. in terms of decisions taken – and the commissioner and minister rightly outlined many of these – i would like to highlight the recovery and resilience facility. here at the european parliament, with myself, dragoș pîslaru and eider gardiazabal rubial as co-rapporteurs, we worked hard to ensure it was better suited to supporting the process of job creation, smes and the people affected by the crisis. so what have we done? firstly, we have created a special pillar, a social pillar, to help those affected by the pandemic, particularly women, because, commissioner, you’re right, very often the burden upon them was bigger. then there is an economic pillar – support for smes – and we also make very clear that solvency instalments are allowed at national level, so countries can use the money to support companies facing the risk of insolvency.to conclude: to the member states, please present your national programmes to the commission as soon as possible. to the commission, please adopt them as soon as possible so that money can start flowing, so that we can start helping those affected. we, the european parliament, will make use of our prerogatives in order to make sure that the plans presented by the countries enhance employment.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, minister, dear colleagues, romanians have a proverb: a friend in need is known . only when you really need help will you realize who you can trust. the union has demonstrated in 2020 that it is a true friend of the european citizens, hit by the worst health, social and economic crisis in recent history. renew europe believes that our response through the recovery and resilience mechanism, through our ambition for the multiannual financial framework, has been the right response. the european parliament, the commission, the council have been working continuously on key files such as the fead, react-eu, sure, the european social fund to begin the long road to recovery. our chance is to become stronger. this crisis must be used to heal, but then to overcome old structural social problems. access to education, health, the fight against poverty, social exclusion, discrimination, barriers to employment must be the subject of our further efforts. we can no longer accept that millions of children live without food security or a stable roof over their heads. my call to european politicians: be ambitious, think long-term and think about citizens, prioritise in national recovery and resilience plans the investment in europe's children and young people, in jobs with social impact that will create access and opportunity.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we share many elements of the analysis and i think there is a broad consensus on urgency and gravity. what is important is to implement the measures now and i think we all need to be aware that this time it has to be different. this morning, the president advocated what she called a new social rulebook. this underlines the importance of the social dimension in these policies. this is what the citizens are asking us to do, that europe, the european union, the member states and all the actors should listen to them, be close to their problems and difficulties. and first of all, there is the stimulus, but the stimulus only works if it is implemented quickly. so i fully agree with what has been said, firstly on the presentation of the national plans and on the rapid implementation of these plans. this also implies - and i agree with the calls made elsewhere by the president of parliament and repeated here - that national parliaments and governments must do their job by ratifying the financial frameworks so that recovery plans and, in particular, the related resources can be implemented. yes, job creation is key. we are in a triple crisis. a health crisis that we hope to control with vaccines, but also a fundamental transformation, which has been accelerated by this crisis, the digital one. a revolution that affects many jobs, many businesses, especially smes. and i agree that job creation must be at the heart of our concerns, in particular by supporting smes, start-ups, young people, those who invent the technologies of tomorrow. but at the same time we must prepare all those who may lose their jobs tomorrow for these new deadlines, for these new challenges, and so investment in skills, in qualifications for both young people and older people is essential. so i think that what we have started with the various measures on training, of course we are not going to do it here in brussels, we are going to do it with the companies, with the social partners, with the regions, with the municipalities, wherever there is a transition to be made. i have listened to what some colleagues have said about regions or the rise in unemployment. and then europe must be on the ground helping, facilitating transitions and bringing people to work, not to a vague future of unemployment and exclusion but to solid jobs, quality jobs. that is the challenge, and we must face it together.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i think i’ve heard a lot of consensus in that 2021 should be the year for recovery, with the rollout of the vaccination processes and with the support of the financial recovery instruments. we have the vision, we have the programmes and we have the budget. so we have the responsibility to succeed. and to succeed, we have to put the people at the centre of our policies. this is very clear. we need to work now to have an immediate impact on the lives of people with the national recovery plans and, at the same time, we need to push for reforms and economic and social investment that will have a long-term impact, addressing structural issues that became even more evident under the focus of the pandemic. some of you said that the eu has already done a lot. this is true, and we should be happy about that, but we need to continue to do our utmost to help member states protect europeans from the social and economic consequences of this crisis. to this end, we need quickly to finalise the pending legislative work and move towards the implementation phase before the summer. we need to avoid delays. recovery has to be anchored in sustainability, in innovation, in gender equality, and in upward social cohesion. we have to take care of the young and we also have to take care of the old, because we have seen the ravages that this crisis has taken on our older population too. protecting europeans from the adverse effects of the covid—19 crisis will therefore remain high on our agenda. this trio of presidencies – the current trio and the next trio of presidencies – have already discussed this matter and will take this forward. so the council is ready to continue working on these issues, together with the parliament and the commission. thank you, commissioner, for the proposals put forward. we look for the best solutions to meet this daunting challenge that we are all facing, and we need to face it together. (applause)
in writing. we've been changing the word crisis for the last year by all means. the covid-19 pandemic has led to increased unemployment, increased social inequalities, deepening poverty among europeans, and the collapse of health and education systems. the european union, despite its limited competences in many of these areas, has already done a lot to help member states deal with the crisis. the commission adopted a temporary framework for state aid to support firms in difficulty, the sure instrument to reduce the risks of unemployment and the fead instrument to provide food or material assistance to the most deprived. finally, a new budget was adopted and €750 billion was earmarked for the european recovery plan. but this is just the beginning of what we're doing. we may not know the full extent of the crisis until the pandemic has passed. at this point, we need to focus on a quick and thoughtful vaccination strategy that gives us a chance to get back to normal. so i'm glad we used the joint vaccine purchase mechanism. member states should also present recovery plans as soon as possible. social dialogue with the regions, social partners and entrepreneurs is important in this context. we must listen to the voice of the people. the proper use of resources must also be ensured. every euro must be used to bring the greatest possible benefit to our economies and citizens.
in writing. the current health crisis, unprecedented in recent history, has caused considerable loss of income and jobs, with the unemployment rate reaching 7.6% in october 2020, disproportionately affecting already disadvantaged workers such as young people and those on temporary contracts. at the same time, the difficulties faced by young people in accessing the labour market have increased, including as a result of the increasingly lengthy processes of transition from education to work. i would like to welcome the adoption of the council recommendation on strengthening the youth guarantee, an important instrument in many member states, which has helped to improve the lives of millions of young people in recent years through the provision of quality jobs, further education or participation in apprenticeship or traineeship programmes. i would like to underline in this connection the importance of enhancing the complementarity between the european social fund+ and the recovery and resilience facility with a view to establishing strong programmes for young people at national level, to provide them with new opportunities and skills in emerging areas such as digitalisation and green transition.
in writing. while portugal, as the incumbent presidency of the council of the european union, is promoting a social turnaround, the only way to prevent a social crisis is to deal effectively with the economic crisis. this calls for economic solutions, not for member states to lose their social competence. the hungarian left has betrayed itself again: dobrev klára is in favor of a european superstate and wants to centrally regulate social policy. instead of building a united states of europe, we need measures at eu level that effectively support job creation, wage growth and support for families. the european union must find a way to make its member states stronger to overcome the crisis, not just survive it. the hungarian government announced an economic protection action plan in view of the crisis situation caused by the epidemic, which, in addition to financing businesses, also covers the preservation of jobs, job creation and protection of families. the economic protection action plan will provide for an extra huf 1500 billion in capacity expansion in the hungarian economy. enterprises forced to temporarily close due to the epidemic measures will be supported by the hungarian government by assuming two thirds of the wage costs in december 2020 and january 2021. the results of the stabilisation and economic stimulus package are already being felt in terms of employment and economic strengthening. small and medium-sized enterprises can be considered the most vulnerable economic operators during a global pandemic. a roadmap with specific targets is needed to substantially reduce the administrative burden on smes.
in writing. after the time of political concertation, solidarity coordination and the design of the response instruments to the impacts of the pandemic, this is a time to focus all efforts on action, promoting ratification and completing the legal framework so that the resources reach people and businesses quickly and are useful, in emergency responses and also in the structural transformations that the european union needs. the institutional debates and decisions have brought about a decisive alignment of priorities between national governments, the portuguese presidency of the european union, the european council, the commission and parliament. with strong legitimacy, we share a vision, programs and funding. the next step is to involve the whole of society in its implementation through national and european programmes, putting people at the centre, focusing on re-skilling and preserving jobs and ensuring that the energy and digital transition takes on a social dimension, which ensures that the poorest or most vulnerable do not bear the costs.
member of the commission. – madam president, we just had a debate on the social and employment consequences of the crisis, and now we are discussing one of the most dramatic impacts of this crisis on real lives, which are under pressure, under threat – the lives of people who are suddenly in deep poverty. the social impact of this pandemic is primarily affecting precisely the most deprived, and demands for additional material and social support are rising, because some people – who never imagined they would find themselves in such a situation – from one day to the next have lost their jobs, they have lost their businesses, they have lost their income, and they are facing deep social problems, deep poverty. in many member states, we see the queues at food banks and soup kitchens becoming longer and longer, and joining them are people who never thought their lives would go this way. thank you for the presentation and the introduction, and also for setting out the dramatic consequences. we have a duty to protect the most vulnerable during this crisis. that is why i thank you, madam rapporteur and the parliament, for having quickly concluded on the regulation amending the existing fund for european aid to the most deprived, or fead. i particularly thank madam nicholsonová, chair of the committee on employment and social affairs, who has led the work on this file, and also the shadow rapporteurs. as has already been said, with this amendment we are ensuring that we can mobilise fresh money for 2021 and 2022 for the most deprived people through the fund for european aid to the most deprived, as part of our overall eu crisis response. our contacts in the member states signal that these possible top—ups will be well used, and we estimate that they will inject substantial amounts of fresh money into the fead. it is our joint mission for the additional funding to swiftly reach the most deprived. so we will already pay 11% of the 2021 allocation as initial pre—financing. the support for the most deprived is also part of the european social fund plus proposal, which is still waiting for an interinstitutional agreement by the co-legislators. progress was made under the german presidency and i’m very hopeful that under the rapporteur and the portuguese presidency, we can come to a rapid conclusion. i also want to thank all those in the ngos who, day after day, are committed to helping the people who are close to despair. i think we have to recognise their work, their commitment, their help, their solidarity. they are perhaps one of the best aspects of europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, the money we are talking about is crucial to the lives of the most vulnerable in our societies. the covid-19 pandemic has created a social crisis whose consequences will continue to be felt for years to come. of course, the rapporteur has done a good job here alongside us shadow rapporteurs, and i think we should be prepared and ready for what we are going through and will go through with the tools we have available in our hands, including reacteu. they are important, but with the vote later today, we are ensuring that the people who need it most are touched. it was, of course, mentioned by the commissioner, the ess+, for which i am the rapporteur. i hope that the council - which i regret is not present at the moment - will have more courage for the challenges ahead. unfortunately the ess+ has not been approved yet in the meetings we are having. you know, commissioner, that as a parliament we are doing our best to find the compromise we need. we as a parliament are doing our duty. yes, we are ready to treat the ess+ as a crucial thing in these crucial moments, in these unique moments. unfortunately there are many people out there who are suffering, and with the courage of all of us, by working together, i believe that the three institutions can find that compromise which is so important during this particular crisis that they are going through.
the european union has a vital role to play in this regard, and we are convinced that the european union must play a leading role in this area. the european parliament has always defended the fead, including in the current negotiations on the new european social fund plus, which will include it in its own budget. i would like to say to the new portuguese presidency: the european fund for the improvement of living and working conditions (efad) is now enabling thousands of organisations across europe to finance projects that are at the forefront of the fight against poverty, providing essential interventions to give dignity to people in need, through accompanying measures, psychological support, training, administrative and legal assistance. it allows for the financing of meal vouchers and vouchers for needy families and individuals. it allows the poor's messes to operate continuously in their service. today, in all european countries, also because of covid-19, the lines at these canteens are getting terribly long. so, thanks to react-eu, europe is making available an additional 55 billion to be redirected to policies of inclusion and social cohesion. the national administrations, with these amendments to the regulation, can and must now strengthen their fead programme, pending the new regulation. let 's not lose our sense of reality . we are really talking about survival and dignity for so many people here.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms lucia nicholsonová, with whom i worked very well on this new revision of the fund. renew europe supported the commission proposal and made a substantial contribution to the debate. we are pleased with this increase in funds that will go to people who need so much help in these dark days of the pandemic. in romania, the fead is implemented through poad, the operational programme for the assistance to the disadvantaged. for these vulnerable people, the 3% increase in funding could be the difference between life and death. it is important that member states do two things now: make the most of this opportunity, but also ensure that the source of this funding is properly communicated. money must be transformed into food and vital materials for those who cannot afford them, distributed efficiently, widely, using all the necessary means in all regions, especially in the most difficult or remote. the use of this increase is indeed voluntary, but i think that the member states should take advantage of it. last but not least, this programme needs to be better communicated, it is a direct, european, solidarity-based response to the suffering of the vulnerable, it is an argument for a stronger and more empowered europe.
mr president, commissioner, the housing crisis is a highly important and topical issue today in times of pandemic. i think it's our duty to respond to this problem with very practical and applied solutions. obviously, this is a big challenge for us, especially with tens of millions of citizens who are heavily burdened by housing costs, living in old, unsanitary, overcrowded, energy-inefficient homes, and, worst of all, many of them unsafe. the coronavirus pandemic has exacerbated their suffering, as many of them have been forced to remain confined for extended periods of time in unsanitary shelters. the fundamental right to live in a good quality home should be guaranteed to all citizens of the european union and bold measures are needed to achieve this. moreover, the devastating earthquakes that recently struck croatia at the end of last year only reaffirm the danger faced by millions of european citizens on a daily basis. that is why i believe that, including the city where i live, bucharest, where we have over 2 000 buildings with a high seismic risk, which endanger the lives of tens of thousands of citizens, obliges the european union to have a very active policy in this dimension.
mr president, this is a sad day, because the behaviour of the portuguese government has cast a shadow on the start of the european public prosecutor’s office, and this eppo is an historic step and we should be off to a flying start, but yet we are faced with a false start because the portuguese government prioritised political preferences over fighting fraud. now this is regrettable in its own, but the way that the portuguese government went about sending their yes-man to luxembourg is even worse. the minister of justice flat-out lied to all her colleagues in the council. what a start of the portuguese presidency! first, there was nothing to declare, because confidential. then they weren’t lies but rather mistakes by civil servants and they were purely administrative, so not so important. then we learned that those lies came straight from the political level and they were actually the determining factor for the nomination process in council, and still the portuguese government refuses to take any responsibility. for the sake of the independence and the credibility of the eppo, we demand honesty, transparency and accountability, and unfortunately we’re not getting any of these at the moment. and as law professors from all over europe have reminded us with an open letter, the union cannot claim to be a defender of the rule of law if its own prosecution office is born in violation of such rule of law. so we are looking at the commission and the council. you were misled, you were lied to, you must set this straight.
mr president, it is one thing to have legitimate and bona fide doubts about the transparency of council decisions on the appointment of european prosecutors, but it is quite another to have false, totally false accusations about the appointment of the portuguese prosecutor. first, they said it was a scandal that the council had not followed the recommendation of the european panel in this case. it is now known that this opinion is not binding and that it has not been followed in the case of other countries either. second, they accused the government of making a political appointment. today it is clear that the portuguese prosecutor was not chosen by the government but by an independent body. third, they said the council's decision was determined by lies and mistakes in the candidate's resume. it is now known that the cv attached to the dossier was free from errors and that the basis of the council decision, as explained by the german presidency, was not based on any errors. if this was a naval battle, i'd say it was three shots in the water, because this is a contrived case.
mr president, we have all fought hard in his house for the mff the rf and for the right level of political scrutiny and oversight on how money is allocated and spent, but we must also make sure that eu funds are not spent fraudulently or reaching illegitimate pockets – and that is where the eppo comes in. i hope we can all agree that it is essential to have a strong, efficient, credible and, above all else, independent eppo. i praise ms kövesi for the work done in the past year to set up the office as quickly and as diligently as possible. but to ensure independence from the politics here in brussels or in the capitals, the eppo needs a body of prosecutors appointed with utmost respect for the rules established and without any shred of doubt as to their individual independence from those appointing them. and that brings me to the heart of today’s debate. prosecutors in the eppo are meant to be appointed based on the results of an evaluation done by an independent panel of european-level experts. the problem is that the council disregarded those evaluations – and not only once, and on the basis of false information. which begs the question: why would a political body overwrite the results of an evaluation based on merit and competence? being a prosecutor is not about being politically astute so as to justify a political judgment; it is about being competent, about holding anyone to account no matter how powerful, whether it is politically opportune or not. that is what the council needs to understand and that is what we as parliament need to uphold with full force. (applause)
madam president, first of all i would like to express my solidarity with the families who suffered in the earthquake in croatia, with the croatian people, with the croatian government. and romania was among the countries that responded immediately to the zagreb government's request for help. i would, however, like to extend the debate. the european union has a large area affected by large earthquakes. i mean romania, greece, italy, the greek islands. we're going to have to learn from these unfortunate effects, and the first lesson is that we need to learn to build better, and the second is that it has become an emergency to reinforce old buildings that are not built to the standards that would allow them to withstand earthquakes in areas that have been declared to be hazardous and high-risk areas. we saw in romania large earthquakes in 1977, when 33 blocks collapsed in bucharest, when 1,600 people lost their lives, when 3,000 people were injured. we have an obligation to take measures to prevent the collapse of buildings in an earthquake.
author. – mr president, selahattin demirtas has been detained for over four years, based on unfounded charges and despite two rulings of the european court of human rights calling for his release. his case for me is just an example of the widespread human rights abuses and the misuse of the judiciary in turkey. colleagues, this resolution is yet another sign of our concern with the situation in turkey, but it’s also a sign of solidarity with those who suffer the repressive measures taken by the erdoğan regime. you all know that this parliament will soon deal with the annual report on turkey and, there too, we will repeat our concerns. my main message to the turkish authorities today, ahead of their visit to brussels later this week, is to remind them of our resolution. i will talk to mr erdoğan. mr erdoğan, better relations are fully dependent on tangible improvements in the respect of democratic principles, the rule of law and fundamental rights inside your country. if you’re serious about turning a new page in your relations with europe, you know what to do.
- a writer. president. - the next item is the report (doc. another debate on the human rights situation in turkey, another on the violation of the rights of prisoners of conscience. how many times have we had these kinds of debates, with countless journalists, politicians and religious leaders behind bars in turkey? worldwide, there are about 270 journalists in prison. 47 of them are in turkey and countless others have already fled. lawyers who want to assist these journalists have little access to court documents. social media users are also regularly arrested, and the same fate befalls erdoğan's political opponents, such as demirtas. spiritual leaders in turkey are not sure of their freedom. there are mock trials of church leaders, and property of monasteries is regularly expropriated. besides, erdoğan is feasting on thugs like hamas leader hanija. hamas' new broadcast, which is funded by turkey, aims to promote erdogan in the middle east. mr president, it is clear to me: not words, but actions. all these resolutions on the situation in turkey do not matter. with all these texts on paper, erdoğan is only lighting his golden fireplace. it is time for strong sanctions against the regime in ankara. this may mean less sales of products by european companies to turkey. well, that's too bad. the merchant has won here enough times. human rights, and especially those of prisoners of conscience, are more important than making money from trade with dubious countries such as turkey.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, 1 500 days – that’s how long selahattin demirtaş has now been in jail, ripped away from his wife, başak, taken away for more than four years from his children, his two daughters, from his family and from his friends. just to add to the torture, they have put him in a detention facility 1 600 kilometres away from his house. that’s as far as from here to rome. what is his crime? his crime is to represent the voiceless people, it is to enter politics and to speak out against the authoritarianism of president erdoğan. is that my personal opinion? no. this opinion is shared by the highest authority on human rights in europe. the european court of human rights grand chamber has come to the conclusion that he must be released immediately. what is happening with hdp in turkey? we have seen their leaders being put in jail, and their members of parliament, their mayors and their activists, for four years now. i understand that the foreign minister of turkey is coming for a visit to brussels. i urge everyone entering into talks with him to put the case of selahattin demirtaş and osman kavala at the top of the agenda. it’s useless to continue to talk if there is no action from the turkish government side. i believe it’s time to apply pressure, which erdoğan does understand. selahattin, başak – em bi te re ne, we are with you!
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, while we were preparing this resolution on mr demirtaş and other prisoners of conscience, a journalist named melis alphan was charged with terrorist propaganda and now risks 7.5 years in prison because six years ago she shared on her instagram account a photo from a public celebration of an event broadcast by the national television during the peace process. in that photo, one could see a kurdish flag. this is one of the most absurd attacks on free journalism and on democracy that i have ever witnessed. i wonder for how long we can continue to keep our eyes closed and our pockets open to such blatant injustice, while erdoğan continues to send people to jail. millions of people did what melis did back then. should they all go to jail, president erdoğan? if turkey claims to be a democracy, then political prisoners should be released, fundamental freedoms should be respected and free journalists should be honoured. then we can have a dialogue. i stand with you, melis alphan, and with mr demirtaş and other people who deserve a european life, not a dictatorship.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, as you said, madam commissioner, according to the european commission, 75% of child victims of human trafficking and half of all victims are european citizens. the countries of origin show an uneven distribution, and central and eastern european countries – romania, hungary and bulgaria – lead the statistics. these are grim figures but there are human beings behind them. let us be clear, countries of origin and destination both have their part and responsibility in fighting these crimes. trafficking has deep socio-economic roots and is related to the situation of vulnerable or marginalised groups – the roma, especially. the proportion of roma women and children among the victims was several times higher than that of the general population. yet, there are still no specific measures to prevent trafficking through the national roma integration strategies. under-reported or under-investigated areas, such as labour exploitation, also call for special attention – in the agricultural sector, for example. according to europol, criminals coerce low-skilled victims from poorer countries into working long hours for a low wage in another country. they exploit victims and on many occasions they do not even pay them or let them travel back home. on behalf of the epp/ppe group, i strongly hope that such concerns will be taken up by the european commission in a dedicated eu strategy towards the european union eradication of trafficking in human beings without further delay. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for our common work.
member of the commission. – madam president, members of parliament, thank you. i can hear from you that many of you are very much engaged in this issue and there’s a lot of knowledge on this terrible crime in this debate. there have been many valuable and good proposals in the report and in this debate that i will of course take forward into the coming work of the commission. trafficking is a modern form of slavery and i feel a strong support from the european parliament to step up the fight against this horrible crime. we need to do more. member states need to do more. we need to follow the money, to stop the culture of impunity, to support and protect victims, to strengthen police cooperation to tackle this terrible form of organised crime. thank you for your engagement, thank you for the debate. we need to unite forces to be able to win this battle. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tuesday, 9 february 2021. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. trafficking in human beings is a form of modern slavery and a flagrant crime, often committed by organised crime, that violates fundamental human rights and the inalienable right of every human being to dignity. millions of men, women, adults, and children are trafficked every year. moreover, we have been observing new trends in the nature of exploitation of victims for some time, namely the exploitation of victims for forced labour. unfortunately, many victims and traffickers remain undetected. however, statistics show that sexual exploitation remains the most common form of trafficking in human beings in the european union, with almost three quarters of all trafficking victims being women and girls. children account for almost a quarter of all trafficking victims in the eu, with the vast majority being girls. effective combating and preventing trafficking in human beings must include, inter alia, raising awareness of the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings, including in particular forced labour, raising the standard of support to victims of trafficking in human beings, including child victims, and, above all, improving the effectiveness of the institutions responsible for prosecuting the crime of trafficking in human beings by improving legal tools and structures, and implementing best practices and strengthening international cooperation. only a comprehensive approach to trafficking in human beings, based on a coherence of actions and enhanced cooperation between law enforcement authorities, will effectively combat and prevent trafficking in human beings.
in writing. the ineffectiveness of directive 2011/36/eu on combating trafficking in human beings is demonstrated by the fact that, 10 years after its adoption, this phenomenon has taken on dramatic proportions in the european union. nearly three quarters of victims in the eu are women and girls, while almost a quarter are children, trafficked mainly for sexual exploitation. at the same time, over 90% of victims of trafficking for sexual exploitation are women and girls, and 70% of traffickers suspected, prosecuted and convicted are men. these data highlight the gender dimension of trafficking in human beings. i therefore call on the european commission to urgently propose a revision of directive 2011/36/eu, which takes into account the following elements: the establishment of fully functional and coherent national reporting mechanisms (nrms) coordinated with transnational reporting mechanisms, and the strengthening of cooperation between member states, europol and eurojust; the tracking of profit flows, the 'tracking of money', as a key strategy for the investigation and prosecution of organised crime networks profiting from trafficking in human beings; and the focus on existing and developing models of victim-sharing, such as the 'loverboy' method, used in particular through online networks.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on european skills agenda for sustainable competitiveness, social fairness and resilience by lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, lina gálvez muñoz, dragoș pîslaru, elena lizzi, kim van sparrentak, anna zalewska, eugenia rodríguez palop, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000006/2021 – b9-0004/21). i should like to remind members that there will be no catch—the—eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted. furthermore, remote interventions from parliament’s liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
the author. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the green deal, digitalisation, has a huge impact on the way we live, work and communicate. the ongoing demographic change, globalisation and now especially the covid-19 pandemic are indeed changing and affecting our work patterns in a profound way and are forcing a new and fundamental review of the extent to which existing skills and qualifications are adapted to the new reality. the commission communication 'a european skills agenda for sustainable competitiveness, social integrity and resilience' aims to respond to these challenges, in particular by ensuring that the fundamental transformation of skills is at the heart of the agenda and that lifelong learning, as enshrined in the european pillar of social rights, becomes a reality across the european union. in this context, the committee on employment and social affairs of the european parliament would therefore like to put the following four questions to the commission. the first question concerns the setting of specific deadlines for the actions envisaged in the commission's communication. in order to ensure that skills reflect labour market needs and contribute to a rapid and effective recovery from the covid crisis, the actions set out in the skills agenda must be implemented in the shortest possible timeframe. therefore, could the commission provide an overview with specific dates by which the identified actions are expected to be implemented? second question: the covid-19 pandemic has highlighted the digital skills gap and further exacerbated existing disparities in the education system, including gender inequalities. in addition, the number of drop-outs has increased, particularly among the most disadvantaged groups in society. how does the commission intend to ensure that digital education is given a strong focus in both education and lifelong learning programmes? could the commission explain how it intends to ensure that education and lifelong learning programmes are of high quality and inclusive in order to create equal opportunities for all, in particular for those who belong to the most vulnerable groups in society or live in rural or remote areas? how will the commission support member states in strengthening their efforts to deliver high quality and inclusive education and lifelong learning programmes? thirdly, the implementation of the european skills agenda will require adequate funding. in addition to the envisaged eu funding, significant public and private investment at national level is necessary for the successful implementation of this agenda. could the commission therefore explain what specific measures it intends to take to encourage national public funding and private capital and to reduce the huge disparities between member states in lifelong learning? and can the commission explain how it will encourage companies to contribute to and finance the training of workers and craftsmen? and lastly, can the commission list what should be done to help member states to adapt their national education systems to the needs of the labour market throughout the european union? how can we attract and develop people's talents and skills, which are vital for both personal development and the competitiveness of european businesses?
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first i want to thank you, and in particular the members of the committee on employment and social affairs, for this question on a very important topic. indeed the skills agenda is the centrepiece of our efforts to bring to life the principles of the un pillar of social rights and notably principle number one. this principle states that everyone, i quote, ‘has the right to quality and inclusive education, training and lifelong learning.’ we need to invest in people and in building a strong human capital to prepare and accompany the green and digital transitions, as well as to respond to the consequences of the covid-19 crisis. our goal is to empower people with education and training, with a view to boosting the creation of quality jobs and setting the conditions for a more innovative, competitive, inclusive and sustainable development model. you rightfully asked about the progress we made in implementing the european skills agenda. the agenda was adopted by the commission on 1 july 2020. it is a five-year plan to help europe develop more and better skills and to put them to good use. since last july, 7 of the agenda’s 12 flagship actions have already been launched. such actions include the council recommendation on vocational education and training which we already had the pleasure of discussing in this house. we have also launched the new europass platform. the remaining five actions will be launched in 2021, notably the initiatives on individual learning accounts and on micro-credentials. the agenda is centred around inclusive learning. it is vital to address this point across all actions, for example in the council recommendation on vocational education and training. we also underlined the importance of digital skills, and digital education and training. this is even more fundamental in the aftermath of the covid-19 pandemic. therefore the digital education plan for 2021-2027 adopted on 30 september 2020 puts forward inclusion as one of its guiding principles. we are also working on the skills for life initiatives to reach out to the most vulnerable and to create concrete opportunities for engaging with learning. our ambitions will fail to reach that goal if we collectively do not invest. we need to make the best use of the unprecedented funding of the union budget to tackle the economic and social consequences of this crisis. this includes of course the european social fund+ which can now be implemented following the agreement in trilogue between parliament and council’s negotiators very recently. additionally, the commission has encouraged member states to use the recovery and resilience facility where one of the seven flagship initiatives for reforms and investments is re-skill and upskill. the european parliament has played a central role in strengthening the position of education and skills in the legal framework of the recovery and resilience facility. i thank you for that as there can be no recovery and no resilience if we do not ensure adequate investment in skills and in quality jobs, especially also in the transition from one job to another. member states should put a strong emphasis on investment in skills in their national recovery and resilience plans, but we are working now with member states to make sure that upskilling and re-skilling is a top focus area. this is not all. skills are a shared responsibility and it is essential for everybody to play their part. this is why we will put in place a number of measures to unlock private investment in skills. we will look at how fiscal frameworks can do better to support reforms and investment in skills, and how enterprises could better report on their employees’ skills development. all these efforts culminate in the pact for skills, which commissioner breton and i launched on 10 november 2020. the pact represents a shared engagement model for skills development. partnerships should be created in order to respond to the skills challenges in different sectors and should involve social partners, too. to date, three skills partnerships are already in place and altogether eur 11 billion have been committed by partners in industrial ecosystems to upskill their workforce in the coming years. yes, the question of helping member states to align their national education systems with the labour market is an important one. of course the organisation and content of education and training is a matter for the member states, but targeted and up-to-date skills intelligence can help align training with evolving labour market needs, as well as support individuals in their choices. as part of the skills agenda the commission, in cooperation with eurostat and the eu agency cedefop, is improving and making more widely available such skills intelligence at regional and sectoral level. let me give you just one example. a big data initiative using artificial intelligence has analysed over 150 million job vacancies across europe. this is an example of assessing skills needs in real time. the results are already online and the commission is disseminating our findings with key stakeholders such as the european network of public employment services and with social partners. the skills agenda already in its name sets the path towards which we have to go: sustainable competitiveness, social fairness and resilience, and i know that i can count on this parliament to go on this path.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president! the lack of resources, the shift towards a resource-efficient, digitalised and climate-neutral economy and the increasing use of artificial intelligence pose new challenges to employment and the labour market. new professions are being created, while the old ones are being transformed or disappearing. this clearly indicates that a rapid change in skills and abilities is needed for the competitiveness of the european union and its member states. the covid-19 pandemic has accelerated the digital transition and has shown the level of digital skills of different age groups. security measures have shifted much of our activity into the digital space, making teleworking and telelearning part of everyday life for millions of people overnight, exposing the limits of our digital readiness. i am pleased that the new european skills agenda also aims to contribute to addressing the economic and labour market challenges posed by the covid pandemic. i welcome forward-looking proposals, and it's important that they show a sustainable path for future generations. modern, innovative and quality education and training, directly linked to the labour market and societal needs, and contributing to equipping young people with important skills that prepare them for real life, are very important in skills development. vocational training and lifelong learning should be given priority, because it is very important, through training and retraining, to keep them in the labour market, and it is very important to think not only of young people but also of adults and the elderly.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, here we are, finally having a debate that our group, renew europe, has actually been calling for ever since june 2020, when we launched a paper called ‘skills at the heart of europe’. skills are actually the key ingredient for our future. it’s about our small entrepreneurs, it’s about research, it’s about how we produce the vaccines for the population, and it’s at the core of productive activity. skills are actually about the social underpinnings of independent living, having good wages and being able to provide for your family. skills are about the future of our society. there is no green deal or digital transformation without proper skill investment. here we are with the ambitious new skills agenda for europe before us. we are in the parliament, putting the right questions and coming with our own contribution to this very important debate. there are three major things to remember. it’s about coordination, how we better coordinate so that skills are going to be sought in all the policy areas, and how we are going to have efficient implementation and transform the words in this nice motion for resolution into facts. that’s the question for the commission. how do we use that funding for the future? this is the most important thing. so repeat after me: skills, skills, skills. this is actually the future for europe. thank you very much, and we are looking forward, as the parliament, to supporting the commission in the implementation of the strategy.
mr president, commissioner, the european union must act to meet the challenges posed by the pandemic. the situation we have been experiencing for more than a year shows the need for joint action to prepare the next generations, but also to adapt to the new realities the sectors most affected, such as the youth, cultural and creative sectors, or sports. the recovery plan and european funding instruments are key. in the european parliament resolution, we offer precise solutions: allocating 10% of the plan to education, funding the sectors and categories severely affected by the pandemic, allocating 20% of the plan to digital transformation, implementing the youth guarantee, the children's guarantee and an action plan to support sport. unfortunately, a simple analysis shows that too many governments have not understood the importance of the moment and have chosen to ignore the problems of young people. the young people and their representatives were not listened to. we're heading into a lockdown generation. our message is clear: the next generation of europe must be more than a slogan.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. all of our lives have been drastically changed in the last year by the pandemic and the policies we have to respect until we win this fight. however, we must not forget that young people, although they are somewhat less exposed to this virus, have suffered a great deal because of the imposed isolation and because they have had to abandon their lifestyle and the socialisation typical of their age. in addition, a very important part of her life, which is closely linked to a healthy life, has been put on hold for a long time, namely sports. children and young people have had to stop all exercise, especially gymnastics, and this will have long-lasting effects on the health of the young generation in general. and that's why we need to come up with a strategy, an action plan, to bring the sport back to pre-pandemic levels. we call on the commission to identify a dialogue with representatives of these sectors to provide the best possible support to young people and sport in times of economic upswing and to maintain the next generation programme.
mr president, commissioner, young people and sport are two of the sectors most affected by the pandemic, as has already been said here tonight. among young people, those with disabilities have been punished even more, as their social interactions have been further limited by the restrictive measures. what support measures are being taken to give special attention to young people with disabilities, commissioner? in the school setting, we have shifted efforts to online education, but we must ensure, especially at an early age and even in the context of covid-19, that face-to-face learning remains the only way to ensure the acquisition of personal skills: study, empathy, cooperation. what are the plans to guarantee that? finally, grassroots sport has suffered particularly, due to economic dependence on small sponsors or on the athletes' own fees. have you planned a specific support plan for grassroots sports so that they can maintain their activity? our young people are the future of europe, and we must make every effort to leave no one behind.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you. thank you for this resolution which not only raises relevant questions but also, and above all, provides solutions and suggests actions. it is clear that action is needed at several levels today. of course, firstly in the framework of the erasmus+ programme and the european solidarity corps. here, ms šojdrová, you rightly pointed out that there are still obstacles to cross-border mobility of volunteers, in particular the recognition of learning achievements by employers. and that is why this year, on the basis of the review of the 2008 council recommendation on the mobility of young volunteers, i will provide updated policy guidance to remove the legal, financial and administrative obstacles that still hamper youth volunteering and cross-border solidarity. yes, today we also need to work more with the cohesion fund to ensure synergies. it is clear that today our young people are facing a triple shock. jobs are declining, education and training are facing massive disruption and many barriers are facing those who wish to enter the labour market or change careers. this is why we remain fully engaged in the erasmus+ programme and the european solidarity corps. we must ensure that there are more synergies with the cohesion fund. we also need to continue to discuss, raise the issue with member states to know how to use all the opportunities that are available today in the framework of the recovery and resilience facility and the next generation eu. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i will pay particular attention to children, the most vulnerable, volunteering and the impact on the mind. the dialogue with the sector, as i said, has been there from the very beginning. today, we must not only continue to identify problems and obstacles, but also implement solutions together. these solutions do not just require the use of a single chapter of our erasmus+ programme. there is no one miracle solution. this requires the inclusion of sport in a large number of policies and more links with innovation, the environment, health, the education system - i will pay particular attention to this. we also need to reinvent new forms of sport. we have seen this with our be active at home campaign, it is successful. we must continue to ensure that we have this balance between physical activity in the home and the use of what new technologies offer us. and what i can say is that the industry has shown us an incredible capacity for both resilience and innovation. ladies and gentlemen, once again, thank you very much for all your comments. your resolution is full of valuable ideas which can help complement our work as a commission. i thank you for your valuable work and look forward to continuing the dialogue with you on this subject.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 9 february 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. i did. the global spread of the covid-19 pandemic has had a significant impact on the lives of young people across the european union. their employment situation has deteriorated, as has their educational attainment. this, in turn, has led to a serious deterioration in the mental and physical health of young people. it is important that all member states recognise the seriousness of the situation and take the necessary measures to combat it. the sports sector has also suffered greatly. sport and physical exercise are particularly important in the context of the pandemic, as they also help to support mental resilience. it is important to preserve and promote the european model of sport sport plays an important role not only in terms of health, but also in promoting common values, cooperation and active citizenship. the current financial support to the sports sector is not sufficient, and it is therefore important to analyse possible solutions to increase support.
in writing. obviously, the situation we're in with the current pandemic is unprecedented. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's sporting interests are not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take part in the world cup. the economic impact on professional sports has been enormous. revenues have plummeted, and many events of all kinds have had to be cancelled or held without spectators. in semi-professional and mass sports the situation is even worse. at the same time, thousands of workers in sports facilities, gyms, and wellness centers are literally at a complete financial dead end. we need immediate support measures and we need immediate additional funding in the sports sector for both the athletes and the unions and for the workers, who have been disarmed and marginalised for months. the restrictions imposed for health reasons are justified. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year, and i hope that the council will be able to accept it. the reopening of sports venues, always with respect for the necessary health protocols, is essential for the health and well-being of our citizens, but also for the development and the career of thousands of athletes. we must stand with these people and finally recognize their important contribution to our societies.
the next item on the agenda is the summary of the report by mr erik marquardt on the implementation of article 43 of directive 2013/32/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 26 june 2013 on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection (2020/2047 (ini)) (a9-0005/2021).
member of the commission. – mr president, dear mr marquardt, honourable members, i thank mr marquardt and the shadow rapporteurs for your report, more specifically on the implementation on the border procedure. you raise concerns about fundamental rights. you call for proper procedures and monitoring. i agree that they are important issues to address. we need a structural approach, one that deals with today’s realities. this is no longer 2015. the number of irregular migrants has dropped from nearly 2 million in 2015 to 140 000 in 2019, and nowadays an important proportion of asylum applications are rejected. everyone has the right to apply for asylum and everyone has the right to be swiftly integrated after applications are approved. but those with rejected applications must return to their home country. that’s essential for the legitimacy of the asylum system. we must manage these returns in a human and dignified way and support reintegration into society following return. the new pact on migration and asylum the commission presented last september strengthens the efficiency of procedures while fully respecting fundamental rights. the pact addresses many of the challenges you identify in your report: the need to ensure access to due process; the need for independent monitoring; specific regard for vulnerable groups. and the border procedure will need to be more uniformly applied in the member states, bringing more efficiency and legal certainty. the asylum border procedure cannot be seen in isolation. it is one important pillar of an effective asylum system. with the pact, the commission proposed to put in place a swifter process upon arrival: a process which upholds the right to apply for asylum and have a proper examination of the application; upholds the right to do so on european territory; and upholds the principle of non-refoulement. a process that allows member states to deal efficiently with mixed flows of people arriving at the border. the pre-entry screening will allow authorities to swiftly identify and register people seeking asylum and will speed up the process of determining what type of procedure should apply. screening is not only an obligation for the authorities but also a right for those who arrive at our borders. clear border procedures will increase legal certainty for migrants and will ensure their rights are fully respected, whether they are in need of international protection or not. especially important is the independent monitoring mechanism all member states need to put in place to ensure respect for fundamental rights. the amended proposal for the asylum procedure regulation proposes a flexible and efficient border procedure. it closes the loophole between asylum and return. it will be mandatory only in three clear cases: first, for applicants from countries with low recognition rates; second, for people posing a threat to security; third, for people misleading the authorities. the border procedure is designed to be effective and to avoid a disproportionate burden on the member states of first entry. member states may decide not to apply the border procedure when a person cannot be returned because the third country in question does not cooperate. the proposed border procedure also protects the most vulnerable. unaccompanied minors and minors under the age of 12 and their family members are exempt from the border procedure unless they represent a danger to security. people with special procedural needs or people with medical conditions should only pass through the border procedure if those needs can be catered for. not all people from low-recognition-rate countries have to pass through the border procedure: for example, if they are from a persecuted minority and it is clear the low recognition does not apply to them. now, the swift timelines in the border procedure do not affect safeguards and guarantees of the asylum procedure. there will always be a full individual examination of applications. all applicants will benefit from all safeguards and guarantees foreseen in the asylum procedure regulation, both in the administrative and the appeal stage. let me be clear: detention must always be a measure of last resort. we must always look for alternatives. in some cases there are no alternatives. even then, all legal safeguards must be in place, and reception standards must be good. dear president, dear mr marquardt, honourable members, this proposal is based on years of experience; on the lessons we learned from the crisis; on the experience of the european asylum support office, which has given valuable support to member states in improving procedures on the ground and through our monitoring today of the asylum procedures directive. i thank you again for your report. this confirms that there are matters of common interest on which we can work together. i look forward to continue working with you to reach agreement on a more effective migration management system that will improve access to asylum for persons in need of protection.
that concludes this item. the vote will take place on tuesday, 9 february 2021.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr ioan-rareş bogdan on public access to documents (rule 122 (7) of the rules of procedure) annual report 2016 to 2018 (2019/2198(ini)) (a9-0004/2021).
the reporter. mr president, the right of the public to have access to documents of the institutions of the european union is enshrined in the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights and is inextricably linked to their democratic nature. the european union must strive to achieve the highest standards of transparency, accountability and integrity, which are fundamental to promoting good governance and ensuring greater openness in its functioning and the way its decision-making is conducted. moreover, it should not be overlooked that transparency has the potential to reduce euroscepticism. let me explain: in the market for campaigns to denigrate the eurosystem, there are forces that stimulate the frustrations of some citizens. how is that? by making them feel that an economic elite is taking advantage of the vulnerabilities of states, of professional categories, to make fortunes at the expense of poverty. how is that? by telling them that there are godless politicians who want to rule the world. for these reasons, explaining to the citizens of the european union how their money is invested, where it goes, why, and on what criteria it is prioritised is a sincere and simple way of strengthening european solidarity, and unity is our strength, ladies and gentlemen. a high level of transparency in the legislative process thus gives european citizens, the media and civil society the opportunity to hold elected representatives and governments to account. therefore, any decision refusing public access to documents must be based on exceptions provided for by law and defined in clear terms, accompanied by reasoned and concrete justifications enabling citizens to understand why they have been refused access and to make effective use of the remedies available to them. a more proactive approach would not only be a step forward in transparency, but would also prevent unnecessary litigation that costs money and costs all parties. it is therefore necessary for all european institutions and agencies to have a common approach to public access to documents, and to constantly explore and develop new methods to achieve maximum transparency. we therefore reiterate our call on the council to align its working methods with the standards of parliamentary and participatory democracy as laid down in the treaties. the council must be as accountable and transparent as the other european institutions. i would point out that transparency and unrestricted access to documents held by the institutions must be a rule under regulation no 1049/2001. unfortunately, the revision of this regulation has been stalled for several years. it is imperative that all parties involved take up this process and continue to work on the revision, in order to align the provisions of the regulation to the treaty of lisbon and to ensure that the scope extends to all union institutions and agencies. in conclusion, i would like to stress that open democratic societies depend on citizens' ability to have access to a wide range of verifiable sources of information so that they can form their own views on various issues, and that access to public information increases accountability in decision-making for europe's 530 million citizens.
member of the commission. – mr president, mr bogdan, honourable members, first of all, the commission welcomes the report for the plenary debate and congratulates you on the work on general reports of the commission on public access to documents in years 2016 to 2018. the report attaches great importance to the principle of transparency that should give application to every sphere of the activity of the european union. transparency is one of the fundamental priorities of the von der leyen commission. it underpins the work of the commission by bringing citizens closer to its decision-making process and allows citizens to retain their trust in the european union’s political, legislative and administrative activities. the commission supports the steps to introduce greater transparency into the legislative process in the european institutions. one recent example of fostering transparency is the conclusion of negotiations of inter-institutional agreement on a mandatory transparency register covering the european parliament, the commission and, for the first time, the council of the european union. the interinstitutional negotiations, which started in 2018, have been complex and very challenging, inter alia due to the three institutions’ own specificities, which make finding a common denominator on a new three-party transparency register a difficult equation. the final political agreement of the institutions was successfully reached on 15 december 2020. importantly, the agreement also opens the scheme to the voluntary involvement of other union institutions and bodies, and of the member states’ permanent representations. the transparency register is a big success. there are currently more than 12 000 registrants, which probably makes it the largest database of its kind in the world. in terms of access to documents, the commission receives the largest and still—increasing number of requests. in 2019, the institution reached its highest number of requests, having received no less than 7 445 initial and 334 confirmatory applications. the statistics show that the requested documents were fully or partially disclosed in more than 77.6% of cases at the initial stage, and wider or even full access was granted in 53.4% of the cases reviewed at the confirmatory stage. the released documents complement the considerable amount of information and documents already available via the european commission’s website, thanks to the institution’s policy of constantly increasing its proactive publication and its commitment to transparency. the covid-19 pandemic triggered an increased public interest in access to documents. the commission is proactively seeking the agreement of companies concerned for publishing the advanced purchase contracts related to covid-19 vaccines. concerning the legislative transparency, the commission takes the view that it is for the legislators to decide on the scope of access provided.
that concludes this item. the vote will take place on tuesday, 9 february 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – as afco opinion rapporteur for the file, i fully support the ep report on public access to documents for the years 2016-2018. transparency of legislative processes and citizens’ right to access documents are an essential part of participatory democracy. they allow citizens to look into and understand legislative processes, to participate in decision-making and to exercise public scrutiny. transparency and access to documents are one of the pillars on which the legitimacy of a democratic political system rests. citizens must have the right to know how their representatives – elected in the european parliament, representing the member states, or appointed to other eu bodies – act.
the next item is the debate on the report by eider gardiazabal rubial, siegfried mureşan and dragoș pîslaru, on behalf of the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on establishing a recovery and resilience facility (com(2020)0408 – c9-0150/2020 – 2020/0104(cod)) (a9—0214/2020). i should like to remind members that for all the debates there will be no catch—the—eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted. furthermore, as during the last part—sessions, remote interventions from parliament’s liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
rapporteur. – madam president, good morning on what i believe will be a very good day for the european parliament today. today, we are giving our final vote, our approval, to the eur 672.5 billion european recovery and resilience facility. this means that money will be coming, support will be coming, for people, for enterprises, for regions all over europe affected by the coronavirus and by the consequences of this pandemic. our message is clear: help is coming, support from the european union is coming to those affected. this support, this money, is money to overcome this crisis, but it is also money to make us stronger in the face of the next crisis. it is money for recovery and for resilience, to make us more resilient to better face the next challenges in the future. never, ever, again in the future, people and enterprises should be affected by crisis as they have been until now. it’s money to modernise our economies, to make them cleaner and greener, to make them more digital, more innovative, more modern. this is why how we are going to use this money is very important. parliament proposes that the money goes in six directions. firstly, greening. second, digital. thirdly, economic cohesion: money for the private sector, for small and medium-sized enterprises, for industry, money for infrastructure projects. this is the third pillar. the fourth pillar is social cohesion: money for the people affected, different social categories affected by this pandemic, including children, including elderly people. fifth, institutional resilience: we are going to strengthen the institutions in member states about which we learnt during this crisis that they have to modernise, increase their capacities. and here i would like to be very clear – countries can use this support to build or modernise existing hospitals, to build new hospitals or modernise and enlarge existing hospitals. and the sixth pillar is money for youth. we, as the european parliament, have negotiated intensely in the last months and we believe that through parliament, the european recovery and resilience facility has been made better. what have we achieved? firstly, we have managed to offer and agree on an increase in pre-financing. that means that once a national plan of one country is approved at european level, the pre-financing, the support that it will receive, will be bigger – 13%, thanks to the involvement of parliament, compared to the 10% initially proposed. this means that the recovery will be quicker and more decisive. we will be able to create more jobs more quickly due to the increase in this pre-financing. then the structure with the six pillars, which i just described, is also a proposal and an achievement of the european parliament. we are setting up clear rules for spending the money, but within these rules we are also leaving flexibility for member states to decide where they use the money. we say 37% of the amount at european level should go into greening and 20% into digital. but we do not impose other specific proportions for different directions because the needs of different member states are different. malta is different from finland, portugal is different from ireland, luxembourg or romania, and countries should be able to decide, within the european rules, to use the money where they need it. we, as the european parliament, have also imposed that member states make a self-assessment with regard to safeguarding the cybersecurity of the european union while accessing money from this recovery and resilience facility. in clear words, the money should be used in a way in which the cybersecurity of the union as a whole and of individual member states should not be affected. for example, money should not be used for investment in 5g networks by hostile companies from countries outside of the european union against our will. the money is not for ordinary budgetary expenditure to finance deficits. the money is for investment and reforms, and reforms are a key concept to make our economy stronger for the future, and this is something which parliament will insist on very much. we, as the european parliament, have also achieved that there will be democratic control for all of the money spent, democratic control and legitimacy through the involvement of the european parliament. parliament will be involved in all of the future phases. we will supervise, we will scrutinise to make sure that money is being spent according to the rules. and we have also achieved, together with the commission and with our colleagues in the council, that the european recovery and resilience facility will be revised after two years. we are going to look at it. we are going to have a review, evaluating how things go and see if something needs to be further improved or adjusted. today we are going to vote in favour of this facility, i believe, by a very large majority. i would like to thank my co-rapporteurs, eider gardiazabal rubial from the socialist group and dragoș pîslaru from the renew group, for the excellent cooperation which we had throughout this process, and i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs of all of the other political groups. this facility was adopted by a large majority in the joint meeting of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) and the committee on budgets (budg), and i believe a large majority of members will also support it today. this is thanks to the excellent cooperation which we had throughout the groups. to conclude, the experience of the last year shows us that none of us, no country alone, can overcome this pandemic; only the joint response of all of us, based on solidarity, will help us. this is a day of success for the european parliament. it’s a good day for europe. thank you very much for your support.
madam president, mr vice-president dombrovskis, mrs secretary of state zacarias, with this debate and the subsequent vote we are facing the final step towards the entry into force of the long-awaited and much needed recovery and resilience plan. and the first thing i would like to highlight is the european union's success in dealing with the economic crisis that has arisen from the pandemic with an investment plan of almost 700 billion euros, an absolutely different response than the one that was given in the 2008 crisis, where austerity and cuts were the headlines. this plan is the right answer, this is what the citizens of the european union expect: protection, support, help... because the impact on their lives is being very severe. and this parliament was very clear about this from the beginning and, as early as may, we passed a resolution calling for a strong economic response. the long and historic july council laid the foundations for this recovery plan to come to life, and during the second half of the year we have been working to define, together with the german presidency and the commission, the main lines of this investment plan. this plan is a two-pronged response: on the one hand, short-term recovery, with an injection of money that will stop the fall in gdp in our countries and that will reactivate investment, and whose effect will be felt in the productive sector and in households, and on the other hand, transformation, resilience, because it is not just about stopping the economic blow, but about taking advantage of those investments and reforms to achieve unprecedented transformations. we have been talking for years about sustainability, about digitalization, about modernizing education, about efficient public administrations, but the lack of funding has, until now, turned those ideas into utopias. so far, because this plan will allow us to make progress in these areas in a few years, which would otherwise have taken decades. the basis on which the july european council discussed was good: a large-scale plan, €670 billion; a rapid mobilisation plan, so that its impact is immediate, and a plan focused on the ecological and digital transition; but for parliament this was not enough, and we felt that the plan had a lot of room for improvement. that is why we have proposed and agreed with the german presidency on a number of points. first, expand the targets to six. we aligned the plan with the strategies and priorities of the european union: the paris agreement, the sustainable development goals, the european pillar of social rights... the objectives of the plan are: combating climate change; digitalisation; social and territorial cohesion; economic pillar to support industry and smes; health and institutional resilience to increase the capacity to respond and prepare for crises, and the last pillar focused on youth and children, with objectives such as education, training or integration into the labour market. in the fight against climate change, we wanted to be more ambitious and to do this we have changed three aspects. on the one hand, we have increased spending to 37%. we have also included the principle of 'not causing significant damage', so that no investment or reform financed under this plan can harm the environment. and finally, we've established a new methodology for accounting for that green spending, to make sure that that spending is real and not just an empty number of content. in the digital field we have specified that at least 20% has to be spent. and in the social field, in addition to adding it as one of the priorities of the fund, we wanted it to be a transversal aspect and that is why we have opted for reforms and investments to contribute to the fight against poverty, to the creation of stable and quality jobs, and to the integration of disadvantaged groups or to the improvement of social protection systems. the 2008 crisis showed that making decisions based on debt and deficit, without considering the social impact, was a very bad strategy and we do not want this to happen again. in this respect, the agreed macro-conditionality will have to take into account the economic and social circumstances of the member state concerned, in particular the level of unemployment and the level of poverty or social exclusion in that member state, as well as the effect that a possible suspension would have on the economy. the coronavirus has caused an unprecedented crisis, an unprecedented health crisis, and it has tested our health systems. the lack of material and human resources has been alleviated thanks to the unlimited commitment of our health workers, but this is neither fair nor sustainable, so this plan, as it could not be otherwise, will also serve to improve the accessibility and capacity of our health systems and to prepare them for future crises. this crisis, like all others, has hit women particularly hard, and we could not accept a plan which did not take this situation into account. in gender budgets and in methodology to measure the impact of gender-sensitive investments and reforms, we are still in the 19th century, and this is a pending task that we cannot delay any further. that is good financial management, measuring the impact of measures not only from an economic or social point of view but also from a gender perspective, so we will be following very closely how this is addressed in the different national plans. we have worked hard: we have also included the importance of designing national plans with agents, we have managed to increase pre-financing, we have achieved retroactivity until 1 february 2020; there has been no phrase that we have not negotiated until exhaustion. i would also like to thank my co-authors, mr siegfried mureşan and mr dragoș pîslaru, for their work. it hasn't been easy to agree on some issues, but we never give up until we get a deal. the alternative rapporteurs too, because they have been a fundamental part of the team, and of course the commission and the council. we have spent many hours negotiating, days and nights; it has been impossible at times, frustrating, but we have managed to reach an agreement, so now it is up to the countries to work to make this plan a success.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear executive vice-president dombrovskis, ‘europe’s destiny is in our hands’ are words that were spoken in this assembly 40 years ago by simone veil. one year ago, when the pandemic hit our continent, these words couldn’t be more accurate. we, as representatives elected by european citizens, have all a duty to deliver a proper recovery and consolidated resilience to our citizens, to our entrepreneurs, to the young people and children of tomorrow. this was indeed the european parliament’s ambition. together with my colleagues, siegfried mureşan and eider gardiazabal rubial, we understood that the recovery will not work if we are not comprehensive. we understood that resilience couldn’t be achieved without ambition. we spent hundreds of hours, days and nights, thinking, listening, writing, discussing, negotiating, in order to find the best solution to win this battle and leave from it stronger. the rrf, the recovery and resilience facility, is a symbol. it’s a symbol for the story we are going to tell our children and grandchildren years from now. it’s a symbol of the vision that we have for europe and it’s a symbol of how we can unite behind a good purpose. and this is why we have actually found a proper solution, and we will implement this successfully. we owe this to the next generation. we have a story that our children will be proud of. a story that for me started in may 2020, when i was attending a conference about the early impact of covid-19 outbreak on children, when i heard children’s representatives telling us that they are scared, that they are uncertain about their future and about the way in which they can continue their education. and many young people that were present there, you know, basically uttered their emotions about the fact that they might get unemployed or they might have an uncertain future. and i made a promise that day that children and youth would be at the centre, at the core of our recovery. how can we talk otherwise about the next generation eu if we are not going to deliver to the children and youth of tomorrow? and shortly after, when the commission announced the recovery package, the one that repairs and prepares europe for the next generation, we knew together that we should actually avoid that our youth and children would become what is called a ‘lockdown’ generation. and the european parliament delivered on this promise, with the cooperation of the council and of the european commission. we have right now a pillar dedicated to children and youth that is beyond the pillars, the other five pillars that have been actually mentioned already, especially the social pillar that is also contributing to the fact that no one will be left behind. and the story continues and brings us to the present. and this is actually really important to see how things developed, because in august 2020 i conducted consultations in 13 member states and i was actually talking to stakeholders and citizens and social partners, and this was a big effort to hear the citizens, to listen to them. and that’s why we actually put this in the mandate of the european parliament in the negotiation. as part of our ambition right now, you will find in the regulation the fact that we need to consult stakeholders and citizens in the elaboration of the national plans. and this is important and this is the message that the parliament is sending, and the hope that we eventually put forward should allow the citizens to express their view. last but not least, this facility – the rrf – is about unity. and european unity comes when we let our values guide us. in the european parliament team we had different political views, but we stood united and we have been united in a team, and then at the beginning of the negotiation with the council and the commission, i specifically said: this is not parliament on one side, council on the other side, commission on another side. we are all together, team europe, and we’ve been doing the negotiation in the interest of citizens. and this is actually shown in the regulation. and i am so proud that we acted as team europe, and i’m sure that we will act as team europe for the implementation. and obviously for having the trust of the citizens, we need to have transparency and we need to have the scrutiny, and we need to have legitimacy and democracy and accountability linked to that. because we are strong together, and if we are going to work together with the 27 member states, then indeed we should remember that this is not a cash machine but an instrument that requires full transparency and access to information. 2020 will remain a sad memory about losses, about uncertainty, about fear and insecurity. but the recovery and resilience facility: it’s a symbol, it’s an ambition, it’s something about listening to citizens, and it’s a story about promise and vision and about european unity. and this is right now becoming reality. this is what we want our generations to come to remember. this is our role: to ensure that it’s going to be well implemented. i would like to thank again siegfried, eider, all the shadow rapporteurs, the chairs that have been guiding us, all the other colleagues and teams and our assistants and policy advisors that work together. we have the chance to be remembered as the ones that set the example for the next generation. (as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs) i’m quite proud to present the mandate of the employment and social affairs committee. if there is one lesson we ought to have learned by now, it is that we are indeed stronger together, and there are threats that we can only take as a union. this is something that the pandemic has not only reminded us, but actually made us apply in practice. our unity is provided by the strength of our society, and what society needs right now is the recovery and resilience facility (rrf): an instrument that puts social cohesion at its core; an instrument that shows how youth and children are a priority for our policy; an instrument that will make the european pillar of social rights become a reality. because if we are to speak about resilience, this is the pillar on which our resilience relies. the employment committee saw that this facility is the solution for citizens, and i think that this paves the way for the ambitious action plan ahead of the porto summit in may. we have a choice to make, so let’s make the right one. let’s adopt for our citizens the recovery and resilience facility.
in writing. – with 582 votes in favour and only 40 against, the european parliament sends a strong signal to european citizens. this eur 672.5billion recovery & resilience facility that is financed by common debt is a first in european history. it is a great result, it is european solidarity at its best but above all a great opportunity for europe. now it is up to member states to draft and come up with ambitions and well prepared national recovery plans that should be forward looking but keep equality and solidarity at the heart of this recovery strategy. the aim of these national plans is to achieve the six european priorities identified and agreed; namely the just green transition, the digital transformation, economic cohesion, productivity and competitiveness, social and territorial cohesion. the member states should implement policies to ensure the next generation of europeans does not become a ‘lockdown generation’. when assessing the plans europe needs to keep in mind and understand the diversity of its member states to avoid leaving anyone behind. i really hope national parliaments will urgently approve these plans so that our citizens and smes can benefit concretely as soon as possible of these unprecedented amount of resources.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i listened very carefully to what the previous speakers said about the alleged abolition of abortion in poland, and it is shocking to any independent observer to see the double standard you are displaying both in relation to the rule of law and the constitutional order of the member states of the european union. both council and commission representatives have said, and i quote: 'the eu has no competence in the matter of abortion legislation, the issue being a matter for the member states'. however, 17 speakers spoke on this subject purely from an ideological perspective, without explaining with legal arguments why, from a legal point of view, the decision of the constitutional tribunal of poland would not be correct. in its decision of 22 october 2020, the constitutional court of poland ruled that abortion for genetic reasons or malformations violates the constitutional provision guaranteeing the right to life of any person. none of the speakers who criticized this decision explained why the precedent that is being set at the european union level to decide who lives and who dies would be in accordance with the rule of law. ladies and gentlemen, by the majority positions expressed here, to speak only about the right of women to have an abortion, but not to speak about the right of unborn children to live, you are simply condemning the european union to death.
madam president, the polish constitutional court is illegitimate and so the ban on abortion is unlawful. it is as simple as that. and it is a head- on attack on women’s rights and women’s bodies. women have gone to the streets – women and men – and the state has answered with repression and violence and persecution in courts. this must be condemned from the highest level. next time i want to see the president of the commission here. i want to see didier reynders alongside commissioner dalli to condemn this. it was not so long ago that swedish and french women went to poland to get access to abortion care. today the abortion care goes the other way round. so, to all colleagues, friends in poland, i want to say you are not alone. we will take this fight together with you. we will win this fight together with you. we will not accept any control and that our bodies and our rights are trampled upon. not in poland, not anywhere.
madam president, i will not tire of saying to the government in poland that no, we do not accept your moves to restrict women’s rights. banning abortions only leads to one thing: dead and intimidated women. your politics are jeopardising women’s health and lives. getting an abortion is never an easy choice, but it has to be a choice, everywhere in europe. in addition, i say to the polish government that you are undermining polish democracy. the biggest protests since 1989 are taking place right now against your politics and all you do is to take one step back when we call you out, as in november, and then, just a little bit later, you secretly leap five steps forward into the dark ages again. women’s rights are fundamental rights and those are part of the rule of law, so i reiterate my support to all the polish people peacefully protesting.
madam president, i come from a country where thousands of women lost their lives during communist years because they had no choice. i am the granddaughter of a woman who suffered tremendously because she had no choice. i was born and raised in this country, but then this country grew so that i can become a free woman. if mr kaczyński or his league had ever had an abortion, then they would know that this is not an easy choice. it is one of the hardest choices one can make in search of a safe and dignified life. every woman has a right to such a life, to such choices, to decide upon her future. every leader or entity who does not understand that does not belong to this century, to the european union, and to our community of values. i stand with you, women of poland, and, yes, i am too the granddaughter of one of those witches that they did not burn.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would first like to say from this house to the polish women that we are with you. you are not alone, you are not alone in this battle. we feel part of this battle that concerns us, because we have learned that governments that have a labile idea of the rule of law attack women first, women and their rights first - starting with us - but then they attack the rights of everyone and everyone: freedom of expression, in a word, and democracy, which is a most precious commodity that we must defend. but the more urgent the attempt is to turn back the clock of history, the greater must be the effort not to look back a millimeter, to look ahead, knowing that it is not enough to win a battle, knowing that it is not enough to get a right respected. we must be vigilant, and we in this house are doing so and will always do so.
member of the commission. – madam president, we strongly reject any pushback on sexual and reproductive health and rights. while the availability, access and nature of sexual and reproductive health services fall under national competence, the commission continues to support member states’ efforts in implementing the united nations sustainable development goals relevant to women’s health, such as on universal access to sexual and reproductive care, family planning and education. to this end, we are planning regular exchanges of good practices between member states and stakeholders on the gender aspects of health, including on sexual and reproductive health. i am fully committed to doing everything in my power to push forward on women’s rights. strong women’s rights are an asset and an achievement the whole of europe must be proud of. we will continue pushing forward. backsliding is not an option. progress is hard won, but easily lost. i count on your support to continue working for progress and leaving no woman behind.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me assure you once again that the presidency attaches great importance to the protection of fundamental rights and the protection of women’s rights, particularly those in a vulnerable situation. especially during this covid—19 pandemic, the union as a whole needs to be very vigilant on respect for the values set out in article 2 of the treaty on european union. we should all join forces to ensure a robust legal protection for women throughout the whole of the european union.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in writing. last year's decision by the polish constitutional court to declare abortion unconstitutional was, as we can see, a cause for great public outrage. this decision entered into force de facto on 22 january this year. this decision violates women's rights and their right to choose and is totally incompatible with the eu's protection of sexual and reproductive human rights, which are an integral part of eu human rights. while we understand that the eu does not have competence in this area, all eu member states are committed to the protection and promotion of human rights. the polish government chose to ignore the core values of the eu and completely ignore the opinions of polish women. women took to the streets to protest the decision, showing that the abortion ban was not a democratic solution. in 2017, the eu repeatedly warned poland about the violation of the rule of law when judges of the constitutional tribunal were appointed in violation of the constitution, and it was this composition of the tribunal that banned abortion. there are therefore very serious legitimate doubts as to the legitimacy of such a decision. we call on the commission to act urgently on this situation and on this decision, which completely ignores women's rights, because this decision will only worsen the situation of polish women, putting their health and lives at risk, as they will be forced to seek illegal means of abortion.
in writing. the constitutional court of poland, in october 2020, had ruled that abortion for severe fetal malformations (such as disease or disability) was unconstitutional, thus significantly restricting the options for voluntary termination of pregnancy in the aforementioned country. the effectiveness of the above-mentioned sentence had been suspended after the numerous demonstrations that took place in the country at that time, although, at the end of last january 2021, the said sentence has been confirmed. since the coming to power of the ultra-conservative law and justice (pis) party in poland, a series of judicial reforms have been developed, including the composition of the high court itself, aimed at eradicating judicial independence and the separation of powers, thus moving away from the common values of the european union in respecting equality and the rights and freedoms of all. poland thus becomes the only eu member state to have fallen back in access to abortion in recent history.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i am not going to go into detail. we are currently witnessing a systematic erosion of the rule of law in poland. the de facto abortion ban in poland is an essential part of this and a deep cut in fundamental rights and massive interference in women's sexual self-determination. the ban leads to nothing but suffering, insecurity and physical and psychological dangers for women. it is totally unacceptable that a member state of the eu endangers the lives of women because of political and religious ideologies. the eu commission must finally push forward with the infringement procedure on polish judicial reform. we must prevent such a politically-minded 'constitutional court' from implementing the government's misogynistic and reactionary programme in the middle of the european union.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on his visit to russia in the light of the recent crackdown on protesters and opposition representatives (2021/2538 ((rsp)). i have the honour to remind you that there are no requested speeches or blue card questions in this debate. i would also point out that, as in previous partsessions, it is possible to use the floor by remote access from the liaison offices of the member states.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, russia—eu relations have come full circle since the 1990 paris charter. this charter represented the equivalent of what we call the ‘end of the history’ after the fall of the berlin wall. the vision of a common space from lisbon to vladivostok has not materialised and russia has not fulfilled the expectation of becoming a modern democracy. instead, there is a deep disappointment and growing mistrust between the european union and russia. many of the traditional pillars of russia—european relations are giving way. conflicts in ukraine, the situation in the south caucasus and moldova—transnistria are fuelling eu—russia tensions, but they are also their product; as is belarus. russia’s economic ties with europe have been severely hit by the sanctions. energy shipments that have been for decades the backbone of the strategic relationship between moscow and europe will be deeply affected by the greening of the world economy. maybe during our discussions we can come to this issue. political dialogue has come to a standstill since the 2014 conflict in ukraine. since then, the russian economy has been shrinking. today, their gnp per capita is 30% less and the adversity of the present political climate makes values and principles a sore point once again. and then there is the navalny case. it is in this context that i decided to travel to moscow last week. the purpose of the visit was twofold. first, to convey eye to eye, face to face, the european union’s position on matters of concern to us: human rights, political freedom and the situation of mr navalny. this i did and they didn’t appreciate it. the case of alexei navalny was at the centre of my tense exchange with minister lavrov. second, as part of the preparation of the discussion on the next european council on russia relations, scheduled for march, i also wanted to test if the russian authorities are interested in a serious attempt to reverse the deterioration of our relations and seize the opportunity to have a more constructive dialogue. the answer has been clear. no, they are not. they are not if we continue to put the political situation and human rights issues in the package. but human rights are part of our dna and we cannot refuse to talk about them. my visit included consultation with foreign minister sergei lavrov, meeting with civil society representatives, think tanks and representatives of european business, journalists and a number of european union ambassadors. i also paid tribute to boris nemtsov, who was murdered six years ago, shot to death on a bridge near the kremlin. his tragic assassination, never clarified, was a warning of what we are seeing now. this struggle was taking place in a particularly tense context, and this visit presented obvious risks. i took them. i took them, on the one hand because we condemned the handling of the navalny affair and, on the other, because it allowed me to assess, first-hand, the challenges of engaging with russia. i had no illusions before the visit. i am even more worried afterwards. what do i take from my interaction? first, the russian government is going down a worrisome authoritarian route. the space for civil society and freedom of expression continues to narrow and there seems to be almost no room for the development of democratic alternatives. the russian authorities have shown in the navalny case that they are merciless in stifling any such attempts. indeed, the current power structure in russia – i would like to talk about the ‘power structure’ in russia, not about russia because russia is the russian people – combining vested economic interests, military and political control leaves no opening for the democratic rule of law. the strong pushback on any discussion related to human rights and democratic values indicates that they consider this to be an existential threat. second, the visit confirmed the long—running trend whereby russia is disconnected from europe with little or no progress on conflicts in our common neighbourhood, and, as i said, they are disconnected because they consider our liberal democratic system as an existential threat to them. during my meeting with minister lavrov, the discussion became heated as i called for mr navalny’s immediate and unconditional release, as well as for a full and impartial investigation into his assassination attempt. i also asked him if i could meet alexei navalny. they addressed me to the court. this was impossible due to time constraints and the fact that mr navalny was sitting in front of the court at that time, but a senior member of my delegation met with mr navalny’s lawyer during the visit and we will continue maintaining contacts with the team to signify our support. we also had exchanges on foreign policy issues. i insisted on the need to advance toward full implementation of the minsk agreements, to fully respect ukraine’s territorial integrity. i underline the need to heed the call of the people of belarus to freely choose their president. however, on a few issues, notably on the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa), we have managed to establish effective cooperation over the past years. there may be other issues, such as supporting israeli—palestinian dialogue, where we could expand our engagement, but the overall environment of the visit did not allow us to explore this further. in my exchange, one thing became clear: there is no intention on the russian side to engage in a constructive discussion if we address human rights and political freedom. the news of the expulsion of three diplomats on the basis of unfounded allegations came when we were ending our talks and they didn’t come through an announcement from the russian side. we heard it from the networks. i understood it was a clear message. the meeting was over. i asked mr lavrov to reverse his decision, but to no avail. that same night, i issued a statement denouncing such a confrontational move. now, allow me to look at the conclusions i draw from the visit. i’m very concerned about the perspective of the russian authorities’ geostrategic choices and the implications of the action they will have for us and for russian society. we are at a crossroads in our relations with russia and the choices that we make will determine the international power dynamics in this century, and notably whether we will advance towards more cooperative or towards more polarised models, based on closed or on free societies. first, we will discuss this issue at the foreign affairs council on 22 february and at the european union council in march. there we will provide guidance on the way forward and it will be for member states to decide the next step, but, yes, this could include sanctions. i will put forward concrete proposals, using the right of initiative that the high representative has. containment efforts should include combining robust actions against disinformation, cyber-attacks and other possible hybrid challenges. second, at the same time, despite any difficulty, it is of key importance to preserve a space for official engagement where it is in our interest. russia remains our biggest neighbour. we must define a modus vivendi that will avoid permanent confrontation. third, but not last, we must find a way to continue engaging with russian society. russia mostly forms a european country and an important part of the russian population wishes to maintain strong links with the european union and harbours genuine democratic aspirations. we should not turn our back on them. maybe the russian power wants to disengage and to disconnect from europe, but we should not disconnect from russian civil society, from the russian people. we have to find a way to advance on these issues and, in doing so, to preserve our unity and determination. without unity, there will not be determination and, without determination, we will not be able to address a good policy. russia has been trying to divide us. they seek to divide us. they haven’t succeeded. on ukraine and on human rights issues, they haven’t succeeded in dividing us. this seemed to be a clear objective during my visit. we should not fall into these traps. on my side, i will continue defending the need to speak and maintain open channels of communication, looking each other in the eye, especially on issues that are conflictual. defending navalny’s rights in moscow when his trial was unfolding is a way of showing that foreign policy cannot be reduced to issuing written statements from a safe distance, from my office in the berlaymont or the external action service. i think it was important to show our concerns, directly in person, at the right moment and in the right place. i hope this discussion will provide enlightenment for the future decisions of the european union council and to look forward to how to handle our relationship with russia. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the high representative’s consultations in moscow must serve as an eye-opener for all those who had illusions about the real character and policies of the kremlin. the visit as such, high representative, but especially the infamous press conference, sparked outrage among many of my colleagues in the ppe group, and you will hear this later. the behaviour of foreign minister lavrov was unfriendly, uncooperative and unacceptable. we duly noted that you put forward several points of our concern: the demand for the release of aleksei navalny and the 10 000 arrested citizens, the russian aggression in states in our immediate neighbourhood. but, was it not to be expected that lavrov would produce an attack on the eu? it would have been appropriate to address the long list of russian misbehaviour in response and to rebuff lavrov’s ‘what about-ism’ on latvia, cuba and catalonia? russia is the aggressor in ukraine and elsewhere, not us. russian authorities have people murdered at home and abroad, not us. russia secures dictators in power, not us. things are now crystal clear: no more wishful thinking; no more appeasement. this russian leadership does not seek dialogue, even less so before the duma elections. these russian leaders are adversaries of the eu and want to divide us. we europeans must now act together and defend our values and interests. we demand a clear message of unity and determination from the council and our leaders. we expect member states to allow use to be made of the european magnitsky act – you said you will initiate it, thank you very much. let every judge and prosecutor playing their role in political trials against opposition and peaceful demonstrators feel they have booked a place on our sanctions list; and then grill the big fish, the profiteers and big supporters of the regime. let them feel the same: no more trips to the eu; an asset freeze; real anti-money laundering action in all of our member states. in parallel, let us step up support and dialogue with civil society. our interests and cooperation were genuine, so must now be our resolve.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, what we witnessed in the case of navalny is ‘kafka: year 2021’. after having failed to kill him, he had to be put away. navalny is seen as a threat because he puts his finger on the sore spot. russians have had enough of putin’s kleptocracy, while ordinary people face economic hardships. moscow abused the visit of high representative borrell to humiliate and offend the european union. it expelled three diplomats during his visit, and lavrov called the eu an ‘unreliable partner’, while russia is doing everything to divide us. but to put the blame on borrell for this? would it also have happened if the eu leaders had taken a tougher stance? but instead, the council has so far failed to put any meaningful sanctions on russia after the assassination attempt on navalny. orbán prevented the eu from issuing a joint statement. the cypriot government has been issuing golden passports to kremlin enablers for years. french president macron just recently renewed his call for a dialogue with moscow, and last saturday moscow resumed work on nord stream 2, with the support of german chancellor merkel. colleagues, what we need is a united strategy on russia, not an appeasement, in view of the challenges russia is posing to our security. this means that the council will have to come with clear and tough sanctions against putin and his enablers, and i believe mr borrell has drawn the same conclusions.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr vice-president and high representative, your visit to moscow at this time was, in my view, a mistake. the renew group has pointed out that the wisest thing would be to postpone it unless you have the leeway to press for navalny's release from prison. obviously, keeping diplomatic channels open is important, we don't deny that, but an official visit to russia in such a tense context is also a symbolic gesture. but this visit has, in our view, sent the wrong diplomatic signal. the coherence and strength of the eu's messages on russia are of great importance to those fighting for democracy in moscow, but also in the eastern partnership countries. you went to moscow directly into a media trap set by putin's regime and that's just two days after navalny's conviction and hundreds of arrests of protesters. under putin, moscow has trampled on international law and the rights of its own citizens too many times. he illegally annexed crimea, maintains conflicts, organizes cyber attacks against our institutions. russia is ordering assassinations on the territory of the union and is conducting disinformation campaigns against europe. i know that, mr. vice president, from the very reports of the external action service. you can't say you didn't know how sensitive such a visit was under these circumstances. by expelling three european diplomats during your visit, the kremlin has shown us once again, as you have said, that it is not interested in a constructive relationship with the european union at this stage. for years we have been trying to build a strong, influential and credible european diplomacy. the visit to moscow in these circumstances and its consequences have unfortunately damaged the union's credibility as a factor of diplomatic influence. we're left with consequences to fix and a lot of lessons that i hope we can all learn from what happened.
madam president, thank you. mr. borrell, you went to moscow unprepared for a confrontation with lavrov. in your speech, you touched on several generalities, starting with russian students, a regretful europe from lisbon to vladivostok and finally touched on the issue of the arrest of navalny and thousands of protesters. on this last point, lavrov gave you a present of a film depicting violence in the west, and a journalist questioned you about the sputnik journalists arrested in latvia. and to make your drift complete, you fell into the trap of the question about cuba, which has permanently removed you from the opportunity to give the messages that european citizens need and expect. in turn, lavrov gave the russian version to all the subjects of bilateral interest, such as the states of the eastern partnership, the situation in the caucasus or north africa, illegal migration, disinformation campaigns, and did not hesitate to compare the us - cuba with russia - ukraine. unfortunately, the union's approach to the issues announced by lavrov was not heard by european citizens because mr borrell did not speak out. finally, lavrov concluded that the european union is not a trusted partner, and after the press conference, three diplomats were expelled. we have only one solution: not to believe moscow and believe them, dear colleagues, and the eastern politicians who tell you what russia means.
in writing. – dear vice-president borrell, thank you for your availability to come to parliament for an open and frank discussion, as you have kindly done many times before over the past year. concerning your recent trip to moscow, most commentators agree that it represents a diplomatic fiasco. we understand that you envisaged it as an exercise in dialogue, but it takes a willing partner to build that type of discussion. we clearly saw that the russian government has no interest yet in becoming a trustworthy interlocutor. your attempts at justifying the attitudes you employed while in moscow are not very convincing. if you had listened to the advice of numerous central-eastern and northern european governments, we could have averted this debacle. as high representative, your visits engage the whole of the eu. you left for russia only with the approval of the commission and without a mandate from the council and without serious prior consultation with the relevant committees of the european parliament. for a former mep and president of the ep, this attitude is surprising at least. your actions have harmed the international standing of our union and leave us with a bitter lesson in ‘how not to’.
in writing. – josep borrell did not have the mandate of the european parliament for his visit to moscow last week. quite the opposite, many of us have explicitly asked him to cancel it, especially in the light of the sentencing of alexei navalny that happened just before he left. other european leaders have also expressed concern about the timing of this visit. he ignored all these warnings. but these voices were, unfortunately, right. his visit only provided an opportunity for russian foreign minister lavrov to humiliate the european union and mobilise the entire propaganda apparatus to ridicule the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. a historic failure, a blow to the union’s credibility – that’s what mr borrell achieved in russia last week. a gesture of minimal decency would be his immediate resignation. we have repeatedly denounced in this house russia’s egregious human rights violations, the occupation of crimea, the nefarious role it plays in the frozen conflicts in our eastern neighbourhood, the disinformation campaigns and the malign influence on our democracies. we need a high representative that is able to deliver on our policies and stand firmly in defence of our values and our security.
madam president, congratulations to mr. gahler on the quality of his report on ukraine. i welcome the progress, however limited, made by ukraine in the association agreement with the union. although ukrainian minorities have put their hopes in the election promises of president zelensky, according to the minister of education, i quote: "schools of national minorities speaking in a language of the european union will switch to teaching in ukrainian from september 2023". kiev needs to understand that the minorities on the territory of ukraine, whether they are ethnic romanians, hungarians or russians, have the right to preserve their language, customs and culture, thereby contributing to the enrichment of the cultural heritage of ukraine. i would like to point out that in chernivtsi, odessa and transcarpathia there are more than half a million romanian speakers. the solution to end this social strife between minorities on the territory of ukraine and the political power in kiev is the immediate cancellation of the articles of the education law that prohibit or limit teaching in the language of minorities. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the ukrainian authorities have not provided any evidence that the ukrainian authorities have acted in breach of the obligations under the association agreement.
madam president, mr vice-president, i think that this is a very important report that we are debating today and i must emphasise very clearly that kiev must understand that, after the annexation of crimea, one of its most important and loyal partners has been and remains the european union. ukraine cannot get through this transition period without the support of the european union and, in order to reform, to accelerate the european path, it needs our support, to fight corruption, to reform its institutions, to get rid of this aggressive influence of the russian federation. but ukraine has to do one more extremely important thing: after the russian minority, the largest minority in this country, which is a neighbour of the european union, is the romanian minority, which is subjected to a process of denationalization almost identical to that practiced by the soviet union. that is why i am asking the european commission to set up a monitoring mechanism for the minorities in ukraine who speak the official languages of the european union, such as the romanian, hungarian, polish, bulgarian and other minorities. it is absolutely vital that we have a real picture of what is happening today with regard to the situation of minorities in ukraine.
madam president, despite the undeniable progress made by ukraine, there are still areas where our eastern partner must insist, such as judicial reform or anti-corruption measures. but i would also like to draw attention to another situation that is discriminatory and that violates article 22 of the constitution of ukraine as well. i am referring to the restriction of the right of ethnic minorities to learn in their mother tongue. the romanian minority, for example, which numbers about half a million people, only wishes to be able to pass on their language and culture to future generations, but due to the new education law, this will no longer be possible from 2023. although on paper this right will exist in practice after the fifth grade, children of ethnic romanians and other minorities will be required to attend classes only in ukrainian, with the exception of one subject that may be taught in the mother tongue, but which will be a subject of choice and not of the student. this situation is neither acceptable nor in line with our values and principles. access to education must be guaranteed by any state that wants to move closer to the european union, and any measure that has the effect of assimilating a minority must be condemned.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, before i conclude, i would like to agree with another part of the report. it rightly commends ukrainian civil society, young people and ngos for their vibrant activities. all who have visited ukraine during the last years, including myself, have been deeply impressed by their determination to forge a better future. i know that the conflict and the economic situation have weighed heavily on young ukrainians. many have been internally displaced. many others have emigrated. some leave for a short time as students, taking advantage of the erasmus plus exchange programme to gain experience elsewhere in europe. in fact, ukraine is among the most active and successful participants in erasmus plus, having access on the same terms as eu member states. i believe that today we can send them a joint message of support and recognition for their invaluable contribution. ukraine’s future is in their hands and europe is standing strong for ukraine.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 10 february 2021. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. it is a contradiction in itself that ukraine is stripping transcarpathian hungarians of their acquired rights while trying to get closer to the eu and nato, where respect for human rights, including minority rights, is a basic prerequisite. in ukraine, we see that the adoption of the education framework law of 2017 and the language law of 2019 makes it impossible to preserve minority rights, including the cultural identity of national minorities. since the autumn of 2020, we see that the purpose of the series of attacks and violations against the symbolic institutions and prominent representatives of the hungarian minority in ukraine is to collectively intimidate and threaten all those who stand up for the community. ensuring the rights of minorities is a matter for all of us, and therefore a priority for the eu institutions. the fact that our colleague andrea has been put on the 'death list' for his consistent stand for the rights of transcarpathian hungarians is unacceptable, and we expect the ukrainian authorities to condemn and ban such lists, as is also stated in the report under discussion. i therefore consider it important that the president of the european parliament, in his reply to our letter, has described the situation in ukraine as worrying and indicated that he will raise the issue at his next meeting with the ukrainian prime minister.
i am not going to go into detail. on the occasion of the day of remembrance which is being celebrated today, i would like to remember all the victims of the phobias and the exodus of the istrians, the fiumans and the dalmatians from their lands after the second world war. what happened imposes an obligation on us to keep the memory alive. we who defend the values of peace, justice and freedom have a duty to pay tribute to the victims of that tragedy. our europe is not only a political response to these persecutions, but also one of the fundamental drivers of the process of integration between democratic countries. i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to observe a minute's silence.
the agenda includes a discussion on the statements by the council and the commission on the state of play of the eu covid-19 vaccine strategy (2121/2541 ((rsp)). i thank the president of the commission for being in the chamber with us and i thank minister zacarias, to whom i give the floor on behalf of the council.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, since the start of the portuguese presidency, this is the second time that the council, the commission and parliament have come together to discuss our joint efforts to progress on the vaccination strategy to fight covid-19. unfortunately, since our last debate, the situation has not improved. europe is still facing challenging times due to the pandemic. the spread of the virus remains worrisome in most member states, including my own. new variants of concern have emerged, making it necessary to follow strict measures to contain the disease, while the vaccination of our population has not progressed as quickly as we would have wished. so it’s time to redouble our work – not to lower our ambition or wish away real practical difficulties. at the same time, we must not forget what we have achieved so far. the eu vaccination strategy has been an example of unity and solidarity in action. it was motivated by – and has achieved – real tangible benefits. it has allowed an equitable and fair distribution of vaccines amongst member states, so that all eu citizens can now have access to the vaccines in an equal fashion. we have had three covid-19 vaccines approved in less than a year and are expecting a few more to come in the near future. we have begun vaccination campaigns across all member states. all these are remarkable milestones following a path of solidarity. and right now, my country knows better than most that european solidarity is more than just words. it’s action. and portugal is very grateful for the numerous offers of assistance and concrete support it has received from several member states. we knew that during the first stages of our vaccination campaigns, the availability of the vaccines would be limited. this is why we had to prioritise certain groups, like elderly people and health care workers, in our national vaccination strategies. but the recent news of delays in vaccine deliveries by some producers is a source of concern to which we must react in real time. vaccine production is a complex process, especially on this unprecedented scale. the truth is that companies may have overestimated their production capacities. we need to make sure that companies respect the contracts signed and deliver on their commitments. countries need to know how many vaccines will become available and by when, in order to plan their vaccination campaigns, and we need this data to work. this is crucial. recently, the commission has also put in place an export authorisation mechanism for covid-19 vaccines, and this will allow us to understand where the vaccines produced in the eu are being distributed. in both cases, transparency is paramount to increase citizens’ trust in this process. we, as council presidency, are willing to contribute to this endeavour. prime minister antónio costa, together with the president of the commission, wrote a letter to all heads of state and government inviting member states to remain united and combine efforts with industry to ramp up the supply of vaccines and production capacity in europe. they also presented some concrete ideas on how to improve our fight against the different variants of the virus. also, the european council will meet on 25 february to continue articulating our joint response to covid-19. the general affairs council will prepare this discussion, and we will continue to work intensively at the technical and political level. this effort should also help us to roll out the covid-19 vaccines at global level. solidarity cannot stop at european borders. fair access to vaccines for low- and middle-income countries is consistent with our values and is in our own interest. we will not be safe until everybody is safe. we also need to put more effort into communication. citizens have the right to factual information, and we need to convey such information as clearly and transparently as possible. at the same time, we need to keep monitoring carefully the vaccination campaigns in close collaboration with the eu bodies in order to be able to address other possible challenges at an early stage and take appropriate action. we all know this will be a long process – longer and more complex than we ever expected, be it at the level of public health or as regards the social and economic repercussions of the pandemic. as the president of the commission put it: it’s a marathon. vaccination is a powerful tool in our response to this crisis, but it will take time before a majority of the eu population is vaccinated. we still have to keep working together for the common good, enduring social distancing, wearing face masks and taking all other protective measures that we can until we finally beat this virus. walking on a thin path between what has worked since the middle ages and the impressive technological achievements of the present, we need to stay together. we need to stay united. this is the only way out.
president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. in poland, 94% of medical staff and 80% of residents of nursing homes had been vaccinated by the beginning of february. in denmark, the figure is as high as 93% in retirement homes. and in italy, we have to date more than 4% of the population that has received a vaccine. these three examples show that the vaccination campaign has picked up speed in many parts of europe. in total, 26 million doses of vaccine have been delivered in europe since december. more than 17 million people have been vaccinated. and we're going to work as hard as we can to achieve our goal of having 70% of the adult population in europe vaccinated by the end of the summer. but the fact is that we are not where we want to be in the fight against the virus. we were late with the approval, we were too optimistic about mass production, and maybe we were also too sure that what we ordered would actually be delivered on time. we must ask ourselves why this is so and what lessons we can learn from it. but let me start with three points that i believe are true: it was right and it is right that we europeans ordered the vaccine together and now share it in solidarity. i do not want to imagine what it would have meant if a few large member states had secured a vaccine and the rest had run out, what that would have meant for our internal market and for the unity of europe. it would be economic nonsense and it would be the end of our community. the second point i am deeply convinced of: the same solidarity must also be shown with our partners in our neighbourhood and across the world. so this is a matter of stopping the spread of the virus to reduce the likelihood of mutations. the access to vaccines for low- and middle-income countries is therefore as much about our own interest as it is about solidarity. this is why we set up covax, the facility in which high-income countries can finance the access to vaccines for low- and middle-income countries. as team europe, that is the member states and the european institutions, we have provided eur 850 million, making us one of the biggest contributors to covax, and covax start delivering vaccines as of this month. and i am sure that this house will agree that we need more, because our responsibility extends far beyond europe's borders. ladies and gentlemen, the third point i would like to raise concerns our approach and our process. we have chosen not to take shortcuts in terms of safety or efficiency. we fully accept this choice. there is no compromise when injecting a biologically active substance into a healthy person, and that is why we rely on the review process of the european medicines agency (ema). yes, that means that the approval takes three to four weeks extra. this additional time is an investment essential for confidence and security. and yes, there are also lessons to be learned from this process and we are already doing it. in the first place, we need to improve the sharing of clinical trial data with the ema, which is why we are launching a new european clinical trial network now. in parallel, our commissioner for health, stella kyriakides, will work on a regulatory framework to allow the ema to examine the vaccines as quickly as possible. another lesson to be learned concerns the mass production of vaccines. to be fair, we were all very focused on developing the vaccine, but overall, we underestimated the difficulty of mass production. it normally takes five to ten years to produce a new vaccine. we have been together for ten months. this is a great scientific achievement. we should be proud. but in some ways, science has overtaken industry. the production of the new vaccine is a very complex process. it is simply not possible to set up a production site from one day to the next. moreover, these vaccines incorporate up to 400 components and the production involves up to 100 companies. that is why we have created a task force to increase the industrial production of the vaccine under the authority of thierry breton, our commissioner in charge of the internal market. the aim is to detect problems and help to solve them. industry must adapt to the pace of science. indeed, industry has to match the groundbreaking pace of science. we fully understand that difficulties will arise in the mass production of vaccines, but europe has invested billions of euros in capacities in advance and we urge the member states to plan their vaccine rollout. so now we all need predictability and this is why we introduced the export transparency and authorisation mechanism. to be very clear, we do not intend to restrict companies that are honouring their contracts with the european union and there is an automatic exemption for exports to the eea countries, for the western balkans and the rest of our neighbourhood, for humanitarian needs and for the 92 low and middle income countries covered by covax. so europe is always ready to help, but we insist on our fair share. as far as the mechanism goes, allow me a word on the island of ireland. the bottom line is that mistakes were made in the process leading up to the decision, and i deeply regret that. but in the end, we got it right, and i can assure you that my commission will do its utmost to protect the peace of northern ireland, just as it has done throughout the entire brexit process. honourable members, the battle against the virus is a marathon and not a sprint. it needs foresight, endurance and stamina. almost every day we hear news of different variants and how contagious they are. we don't yet have the full picture when it comes to the effectiveness of treatments and vaccines on new strains, but we do know these variants will continue to emerge and we do know that we need to anticipate and prepare immediately. this is why we are starting our new health emergency response authority (hera) project now by launching our preparedness agenda against new variants next week. we need to adapt our regulations to this new challenge. we need rapid sequencing and clinical characterization of new mutations, and we need systematic sample and data sharing across networks and labs because, to defeat the virus, we need to know as much detail about it as possible. in parallel, we want to tackle a second challenge. as i said, we are dealing with completely new mrna vaccines never manufactured at scale before. one of the current bottlenecks is, for example, linked to just two synthetic molecules. if we had just 250 grams more of these molecules, companies say they could produce one million more doses of vaccine. this is why we need more coordination on the supply of key ingredients. we need to improve manufacturing surge capacity and we need to boost cooperation between the public and the private sector. this will be the core task of hera because we must ensure that, despite future mutants, we will be safe next winter and beyond. we all know that the information we have on the virus and the vaccines can change by the hour, and that is why we are going to set up a contact group between the european parliament and the commission. i will do my utmost to ensure that you are able to scrutinise all the contracts we have signed because i know that trust needs transparency. ladies and gentlemen, we are all doing our best to combat the virus in families, in cities and communities, in the member states and at european level. and we shouldn't deny each other that. we will only overcome these challenges if we stand together. our common enemy, that's the virus. i would like to thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we are facing an unbelievable stress test for european societies, for the european way of life, for all europeans. no handshakes, no visits to grandparents, no holidays, no meetings with colleagues at work ... only the home office and always with this terrible mask. the vast majority of our citizens understand the measures introduced mainly by the member states and each region. this is the only way to protect one other. we have to thank citizens for their understanding and especially those who work in the health sector every day. they are the heroes. everyone wants to escape, and the only chance of doing so is through vaccination. that is the light at the end of the tunnel, and probably the only light we currently have. and that is the reason for the disappointment. that is the reason for the huge expectations that we face when we speak with our citizens. to avoid further frustration among citizens, i think the most important thing is to tell the truth. first of all, demand is much, much greater than production. we need time. the second message is, yes, the eu made all the mistakes; not everything was perfect over the last weeks and month, and in the coming weeks and months there will be time to draw up a report here in parliament about what can be learned from the developments of the last few weeks. another message is to tell people that many of the decisions we took together were the right decisions. the key decisions were right. first, without the european union, without our fight for more money, for research, there would have been no chance of developing the new types of vaccine. that was right. it was also right not to distinguish between first and second-class europeans. to keep europe together was right. it was also right that we as lawmakers established the principle of liability rules for companies, for distributing products in europe, and these rules must also be respected by pharmaceutical companies. the brits gave up. we as the eu did not. and fourth, safety first. it will probably take a little bit of time, but we didn’t initiate a fast track procedure with the european medicines agency (ema). we expect our experts to do a proper assessment, and that was right. dear colleagues, again, not everything has gone perfectly in the last year, but the key decisions were right, together with the governments, together with the parliament, together with the commission. i also want to say a personal word to stella kyriakides. as our health commissioner, she is currently at the centre of the storm, and i want to underline that she, and the whole team, did a great job for europe. so thank you so much, stella, for your work. meine sehr verehrten kolleginnen und kollegen! neben der sicherheit müssen wir jetzt ambitionen an den tag legen. meine fraktion hat gestern einen elf-punkte-plan vorgelegt, wie wir die produktion schnell anheben können. wir brauchen investitionen in produktionen, 10-milliarden-programm. wir müssen verhindern, dass sich die mutanten weiter verbreiten, uns darauf auch vorbereiten. wir müssen alle produktionsanlagen mobilisieren, eine große pharmaallianz schließen, um die produktion nach oben zu kriegen. wir brauchen als zweites eine zusammenarbeit der westlichen welt, einen g7-gipfel, wo wir mit den vereinigten staaten und großbritannien reden, um den egoismus, der dort herrscht, zu überwinden, produktionsketten nicht zu unterbrechen. wir brauchen als drittes jetzt: ja, die bereitschaft zur kooperation mit den anderen staaten, aber auch nicht naiv zu sein als europäische union. ein exportverbot von in europa produzierten impfstoffen muss aus unserer sicht nach wie vor als option auf dem tisch bleiben. wenn großbritannien keinen astrazeneca-impfstoff nach europa liefert, warum sollten wir dann den biontech-impfstoff nach großbritannien liefern? zum weiteren brauchen wir endlich gemeinsame einreiseregelungen. vor einem jahr hat meine fraktion bereits gefordert, gegenüber china im gesamten schengen-raum eine einheitliche einreiseregelung zu machen. wir schaffen es auf der ministerseite – bei den innenministern – bis heute nicht, dass wir endlich gemeinsame regelungen für südamerika oder für südafrika bekommen. das ist das scheitern der innenminister auf diesem kontinent, weil das nicht gelingt. bis heute warten wir auf entscheidungen in diesem bereich. dänemark und schweden haben jetzt angekündigt, einen nationalen impfpass auszustellen – ein zertifikat für die bürger bereitzustellen, dass sie geimpft sind. täglich werden zehntausende von europäern geimpft, und wir schaffen es nicht, einen europaweit standardisierten impfpass zu verfügung zu stellen, damit wir die bewegungsfreiheit im schengen-raum besser bewerkstelligen können. auch eines der themen, das umgehend angepackt werden muss. zu guter letzt: die wirtschaft, die arbeitsplätze. gestern haben wir das grüne licht für den recovery and resilience fund gegeben. grünes licht für den wiederaufbau europas. auf mitgliedstaatlicher seite haben bisher nur vier staaten die own resources—entscheidung gefällt. die restlichen staaten sind nicht in der lage, grünes licht zu geben, dass die gelder endlich fließen können. es liegt also enorm viel vor uns. ich habe vorher von den mitarbeitern im gesundheitswesen gesprochen, die eine große verantwortung tragen. sie sind im krisenmodus. wenn sie rückschläge haben, dann wird nicht intern diskutiert, sondern dann wird angepackt, dann wird weitergearbeitet, dann wird versucht, das beste zu machen. und das sollten wir europäer jetzt auch machen.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, madam president, i know these are difficult times. of course, we have been fighting covid-19 for almost a year and we all want to return to the long-awaited normalcy as soon as possible. it is precisely because of the gravity of the situation that i invite you all to pause for a moment and look at the situation without agitation, putting aside what may be struggles between one and the other and also putting aside those partisan interests which are legitimate, of course, in this parliament, but it is not the time now. this week i've heard it all: fiasco, disaster, failure... these messages from some, full of criticism and frustration, are finally being heard by the public, by a public which is very frustrated and which is currently expecting a lot from the european union. because it seems that at least the citizens are clear: that we will not get out of this crisis each one on his own and that it takes the effort of everyone to get out of this situation. let us therefore put aside the catastrophic messages and try to see reality as it is, because only then can we take the necessary action. with head and responsibility. with the necessary criticism, of course, but also with a constructive spirit and with institutional loyalty. adopting a european strategy for vaccination was the right decision. the only one, really. what we should have done from the beginning. let us remember the beginning of the crisis. let's remember those fights between countries over respirators or masks. it doesn't seem like "save yourself whoever you can" is the best solution right now. in the united states, president biden has proposed, with respect to vaccines, to activate the defense production act, an exceptional measure. and it talks about a titanic logistical effort to get the vaccine to every corner of the united states. in the european union we face the same challenge for a population larger than that of the united states, but with fewer instruments. yes, fewer instruments, because the european union has no competence in the area of health and has less perfect economic governance in this respect and more incomplete. and so we've had to create new instruments on the fly and do it all in record time. we have completed the implementation of unemployment reinsurance in record time. in record time, we have put the recovery and resilience plan into action. and in record time, with the efforts of all, a vaccine has been produced which, under normal circumstances, as the president has said, could take ten years to produce. almost a year after this crisis began, we are much closer to seeing the light at the end of the tunnel. it has been a collective effort, with many sacrifices and looking for solutions in solidarity. the delay in the delivery of the astrazeneca vaccines has caused disillusionment and mistrust and it is normal that the citizens want to know what is happening. and that is why this parliament must have the ability to have a monitoring instrument with the european commission, so that we can have all the information. a monitoring committee to which commissioner kyriakides and commissioner breton, respectively responsible for health and industry, can come to report, which is what they have to do with this parliament. because we have invested a lot of public money, 2.7 billion euros from the european union and 750 million from the member states. it's a lot of public money and we need to have an accounting to know what we're doing with that public media. i know that there are other debates on the table and that they are also necessary, but what we have to focus on right now is fostering alliances and consortia between pharmaceutical companies in the european union and in third countries to speed up the production of vaccines. let us not fall into european nationalism either. this is a global problem and it requires a global look. the export control mechanism can serve to monitor where the vaccines of the european union are, but it should not at any time hinder global vaccination agreements. let's stop for a moment, please. the european union has purchased 2.3 billion vaccines for a population of 500 million people in the union. the union's responsibility goes far beyond our borders. as we vaccinate, we must have a global commitment to all those who also need our solidarity. if the start has been delayed, we are now increasing capacity, and the commission estimates that supply will grow exponentially. that's what we have to work on right now. the percentage of the population vaccinated in the european union must be increased to also send a message of certainty and reassurance. let us stop with catastrophisms that do not help at all and be able to learn lessons because we are still in time, because it is never too late to learn. and a very important one is that the european union needs to be given more instruments. this will enable us to react more quickly and effectively to future challenges. in my group the commission will always find a demanding but responsible partner to find solutions and build this europe of solidarity.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam president, thank you for being here in the european parliament. my group has insisted that this debate should take place, and i think it is very useful at this stage. i have no doubt that vaccination is the project that will have the greatest impact on europeans during this mandate, beyond the recovery plan that was voted yesterday and which is also a revolution in itself. this vaccine affects what is most precious to every european: his health, that of his loved ones and his return to freedom. this is the first time in history that europe has such a responsibility towards european society in the field of health. the attitude of boris johnson gives an idea of what could have happened in europe if each member state had been left to face these challenges alone and if member states had been put in competition. this european responsibility, which is in fact expected by the citizens, must be translated into a europe of health that complements what the member states are doing, so that the european institutions and the commission have clear responsibilities in relation to health. but fully supporting the collective approach does not mean giving a blank cheque. it is a requirement, because europe has no right to make a mistake. that is why we are so demanding here in parliament. each delay must be explained, justified and accompanied by solutions to remedy it. one day we will also have to explain what could have been done better in the contracts that were negotiated with the vaccine producers. but now, every new challenge must be anticipated, prepared and accompanied by solutions. i welcome the task you have given thierry breton, along with commissioner kyriakides, to tackle the industrial challenge of mass production alongside that of health. this mission must cover the urgent and medium-term aspects of structuring a fully independent, european and operational vaccine industry, as it is conceivable that such challenges may arise again. europe needs this capacity not only in research, where progress has been made, but also in production and industrial production. our research strength and our production capacity make us responsible as the european union, not only to the member states but also to those around us. in the balkans, on the african continent and beyond, europe must be able to bring vaccines as quickly as possible. we must continue the covax initiative and further involve the international community in the cooperation that needs to be established. we must also rise to the democratic challenge by being open and transparent at every stage. i am counting on you, madam president, to set up this contact group with the european parliament as soon as possible in the coming days, as you have announced, and we are also organising ourselves in parliament so that at every stage this house is informed in real time of the difficulties, new challenges and solutions put into practice. the past year has shown us that it is only through transparency and clarity that we can win the trust of our citizens in the european project. today's debates are also part of this process.
madam president, ... (words not heard) ... which he has proven by giving equal access to vaccines to european citizens. the responsibility for the delay that costs human lives is the big pharmaceutical industry. in other words, first in cash, but last in contract compliance. with huge profits in the pandemic, these global companies refuse to give up their intellectual property rights. such a waiver, madam president, would allow many states to produce their own vaccines. we've said it before and we'll say it again: global companies are increasingly acting by their own rules, rather than the laws of the countries where they make their huge profits. it is imperative that in the coming period, through the world trade organization, within the g20, we discuss united measures in an attempt to shape the process of globalization which, at least in the case of the pharmaceutical industry, is becoming inhuman, primarily profit-oriented and with minimal responsibility for people's lives.
in writing. vaccines must become a public good, urgently accessible to every european citizen who wants it. now, i asked the president of the european commission to do this at a meeting on the future of the european vaccination strategy. also european support and funding for the cantacuzino institute to produce vaccines again. it's a race against the clock. there are two things essential to this desire: 1.we need to be able to produce increased quantities, with clear delivery times, to keep up with this race against the clock, by developing production centres in each member state. 2.i have requested additional funding so that romania can produce vaccines again at the cantacuzino institute. it is clear that at this moment we need to apply a clear strategy, that plan b that i keep proposing in romania, but no one hears which involves 3 clear measures applied simultaneously: 1.extended (rapid) free testing the only healthy option for prevention (obviously the safest way to avoid getting coronavirus is to avoid contact with a coronavirus carrier, whether symptomatic or not. two, immunization against the clock. 3.finding an effective medication (for prevention and treatment) and here, no possibility should be neglected.
in writing. – the eu has made the right key decisions, especially on the collective european approach to vaccination and on standing up for its citizens’ rights by putting safety first and enforcing eu liability rules. however, we are still not where we want to be in the fight against the virus. we acknowledge that we underestimated the challenges of vaccine mass production and therefore the concrete measures to ramp up production must now be taken as a matter of utmost priority, but definitely, we do not need to take any shortcuts on the safety and efficiency of vaccines. to protect the citizens from disinformation and help them understand the eu’s efforts, it is of utmost importance to be completely transparent regarding contracts, deployment of covid-19 vaccines, as well as for comprehensive and clear data on vaccine rollout at national level. the eu at the same time recognises its position and responsibility to help globally and to ensure vaccines are fairly distributed across the globe, because nobody is safe until everybody is safe.
in writing. i appreciate the mea culpa that the president of the european commission has made about the slow pace of the covid-19 vaccination campaign. indeed, the commission underestimated the difficulty of mass production by focusing on the development of the vaccine. i do not think that the resignation, demanded by the extreme right, or the commission of inquiry, demanded by the radical left, are the solutions now that the commission's target of vaccinating 70% of the adult population by september is achievable and must be achieved. on one condition: to stimulate the supply of vaccines, including by a complete ban on exports of eu-produced vaccines to third countries, but above all by putting pressure on pharmaceutical companies under contract with the eu to fulfil their publicly announced commitments. increasing production capacity is essential in this regard and all possibilities must be exploited as a matter of urgency. i remind the european commission that it is dealing with a critical situation and must make the effort to overcome its own bureaucratic limits.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, in a world where being connected has become as important as a fundamental right, the rise of social media has fundamentally transformed our society. the idols of our children are born on social media, we can be bullied or abused on social media, elections are lost or won on social media. looking at the years ahead and the decisions facing us, i want to make three points. first, there is no online and offline world. there is only one world, one in which we must protect our citizens’ rights and our democracies in equal measure, both online and offline. the digital services act (dsa) is a good step in this direction, and i commend the commission for the level of ambition in the proposal. second, social media has become a political tool for some, a tactical battlefield for others. politicians, informal communities, structured organisations, and even states themselves, all embrace social media as the weapon of choice. but social media platforms are private companies so they alone do not have the incentive, the means or the legitimacy to take on politicians or state actors. they require democratic oversight and assistance for that, just as we require from them cooperation and compliance. so we are not adversaries, us and the platforms. we need to find together a burden-sharing equilibrium that guarantees both the common good and technological progress. my third point is that social media is global and geopolitical, so we need to use our entire diplomatic arsenal to protect our citizens’ rights and our way of life online. we need to work with the united states and other like-minded partners to define the rules of the future based on our shared values. and we need to use our dissuasion tools to address appropriately states such as russia who use social media to sabotage our democracies and our common european project, or states such as china who work to build an alternative digital future without playing by the same rules or without relating to the same values.
madam president, increasing responsibility and transparency on social media platforms must be at the core of our strategy for protecting fundamental rights and democracy in the digital sphere. self-regulation has proved not enough, obviously. however, over-regulating is also not a solution. just as rules apply for the democratic debate offline, they need to be adapted for the digital age. the balance lies in refraining from censorship and in establishing clear and predictable lines so that we do not suppress democracy in our attempt to protect it. transparency is fundamental. as users, we need to be aware of who pays for what, why we see a certain content, whether that content was altered, who and what is behind what we see online. we need to follow the money, especially when it comes to political advertising. last but not least, education is fundamental. we must not and cannot build ministries of truth, but we can educate people so that they understand that such ministries actually do not exist.
madam president, social media offers enormous opportunities, and at the same time it poses great challenges to our democracies. for a long time, platforms have been hiding behind the phrase "we are not publishers, we do not filter content, we are open spaces for the public". the recent decisions to ban khamenei and trump have dismantled this alibi. they also demonstrated the dangers that platforms could pose if they are not regulated. the internet offers open forums for freedom of expression, but these forums must be secure. unfortunately, platforms are often used to promote violence: physical, verbal, political. net neutrality does not mean that we must remain neutral in the face of lawlessness, violence and foreign interference in our democracies. it is the democratic authorities who must decide the rules for our civil dialogue and this is a challenge that europe must rise to.
madam chairman! social media is a blessing for our democracies, but unfortunately it is also clear today that it has become a huge challenge. every day we see examples of illegal goods for children being sold on these social platforms without any intervention, and europeans are being attacked by disinformation, a deliberate attempt to distort democratic debate. it creates a destructive polarization that undermines our democracy and creates unnecessary hostility. the last time we saw it was when the storm at capital scared us all, but at the same time, we also saw multiple platforms shutting down the then-president of the united states. so, is that the answer? no, of course it's not. we have to be very careful not to have the right to speak, the right to freedom of the press, the right to speak about ourselves and others on these social platforms attacked. it is a strange thing for us liberals to have freedom of speech, and therefore it is a special obligation for us liberals to find this balance between freedom of speech and then to get order on the net. of course, we must live up to that special obligation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we're talking about nothing less than our civilization and what holds our civilization together. we have seen a culture of human dignity and freedom grow from and within europe. we've had the enlightenment. the enlightenment has led to the understanding that these values apply to every human being and also lead to freedom of expression, freedom of speech. but we must not forget that we have seen in history that these great ideals can be trampled underfoot, even eradicated. this has not happened anywhere else in europe. so we have to be very, very careful about these issues. social media platforms have brought a lot of good, but also a lot of dangers. they make it easier to divide our societies. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is not left in the lurch. we are working on this in the european parliament, and there are attempts to divide us from within. what happened on capitol hill in the united states in washington dc is just the tip of the iceberg of what is possible. what we have to ensure, because parliamentarism is also part of the values of our civilization, is that it is parliaments that can make rules through legislation, and not private companies that can do the censorship.
madam president, madam commissioner, madam secretary of state, distinguished colleagues, social media platforms have brought a global plus. interpersonal communication is easier, distances are disappearing, and globalization has reached the human, individual level. without denying all the positive aspects for society and for individuals, we have to acknowledge that the lack of regulation has created, from these platforms, sometimes a danger for democracy and even for the development of society. we can no longer accept that the rules of communication are set by companies alone, we can no longer accept that the rules of ethics are set at the platform level, and we certainly can no longer accept the algorithms that recommend certain posts and information to the detriment of others. we understand that this is a new market, this is a new economy, but the rules and the algorithms have to be approved differently: according to ethical criteria, according to legislation; otherwise, we risk that these social platforms are also a danger to our democracy as we know it, and an extremely valuable tool in the hands of those who want to destabilize it.
madam president, commissioner, secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is extremely useful because it brings to our attention a subject which is extremely sensitive for our democratic societies. clearly, technology has given us extraordinary tools of communication, and it has fundamentally changed our lives. social networks today influence political life, financial markets and, as clearly as possible, the daily lives of all our citizens. the question is how far this freedom of these extremely useful instruments goes, because self-regulation has proven to be ineffective, and i am very sorry that we are unable to find instruments to meet the challenges we and the european union are facing. we have seen, in the midst of the pandemic, entire campaigns of misinformation that our citizens have been subjected to by the states that have been behind such tools. the commission tried to react, but it wasn't enough, and i think that freedom of speech needs to be protected, but at the same time we need to take care of our citizens, because i saw many voices in parliament saying that they are happy that donald trump's account has been closed. i wonder why we weren't happy when putin announced on twitter that he had annexed crimea.
madam president, 35 years after the chernobyl tragedy, the effects of which are still felt by millions of people, the danger is again approaching the european union, and once again its source, even if indirectly, is russia. i therefore welcome the itre resolution and the strong call to the commission to ensure that the plant in belarus does not start up before all safety measures are up to international standards, as this plant may become not only a risk to the states neighbouring belarus, but also a permanent source of discomfort and pressure on european citizens. at the same time, however, i think it would be unfortunate if this incident became the pretext for a campaign against clean nuclear energy in the union. member states need to transition to clean energy and, due to national specificities, some cannot create the energy mix without nuclear energy. the last thing we want is for the european union to become even more dependent on russian energy imports, possibly, and ironically, even nuclear energy.
author: mrs president, commissioner, it is not only in africa, but it is also in africa. a wind against democracy and transparency weakens countries, torments peoples and must be firmly denounced and stopped. fortunately, we have many good examples of sustained democratic progress in africa over the past decade. these are processes that are usually associated with dialogue, strengthening civil society and progress. when we deplore what is happening in uganda, we do so in the name of human rights and the political values in which we believe, but we do so also because we want the people to be well and we do not want to see their dreams and aspirations to a dignified life curtailed. we do not want to see the dreams and aspirations of young people who have expressed themselves in large numbers throughout africa and also in uganda in favour of a free, tolerant, open and democratic political process being curtailed. the presidential elections in uganda were a poor example of what transparent and fair political processes should be. international observers were prevented from carrying out their mission, violence was used and abused to influence the debate, participation and choices in the elections, freedom of expression was violated. the ugandan authorities cannot continue to act with impunity in a way that preys on the rights and security of the people. we therefore call in this joint resolution for action by the european union and other international actors to strengthen their coordinated action in uganda, without ruling out the application of sanctions to persons or organisations who have been or may be responsible for violations of these principles. we also call on the european external action service to continue to monitor systematically the implementation of european programmes in uganda, to prevent them from being used for activities that conflict with human rights or aim to harm activists or opponents of the established power. and finally, we call on the ugandan authorities to reverse their authoritarian drift and promote the rule of law, fundamental rights and democracy as the route to a better future for their country.
author. – madam president, i want to address this to vice-president borrell. i come from a country that fought hard for its democracy and paid an enormous price in human lives in 1989, and what the history of my country taught me is that simply holding elections does not equal democracy. elections under dictatorship are grotesque. thirty-six years later, i come here and ask you, does anyone think that elections held in a climate of terror can be considered free and fair? imagine that on general election day, you put on your best clothes and head together with your family to the closest polling station. and there, as it happened in uganda, you’re met with violence and terror by your own government forces, who are supposed to protect you. people are shot, arrested, opposition leaders are under house arrest and worse. do you trust the government the next day after such elections? does the world trust that government the next day after such elections? we need to stop talking in riddles and agree on the fact that the election in uganda on 14 january ran against any policy of a free, safe and equal election. president museveni has been ruling for more than three decades now. he managed to fool everyone – global leaders, international organisations, even the european union. what happened in uganda before the elections is unthinkable in any country that we call democratic. blocking access to the internet and social media prior to election day is unacceptable. it leaves people in the darkness of this information. bobi wine, uganda’s opposition leader who conducted peaceful protests in order to condemn the fact that the poll was rigged, has been put under house arrest for several days. neither media nor party officials were allowed to access his home. is that a fair chance? is that a fair fighting chance? mr borrell, i am sorry that i have to say this, but i find myself in a position to tell you and our ambassador, atillio pacifici, that your post-election regrets are not enough – because at least 54 people lost their life to police fire, because hundreds of other people were injured. so let us say it out loud, the elections in uganda were neither peaceful, nor free, nor fair. taking note of the results, as you did, mr vice—president, simply means accepting the result. dear colleagues, if we do not act now, the shrinking of democratic space will be more and more visible. this is something we see all over the world. we find ourselves being more and more an island of democracy and human rights, but we should be a standard for democracy and human rights. ugandans know what they want, because they told me, a few of them in romania where i come from. they want democracy. they want fair elections. and we, the european union, must stand by them.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by welcoming the approach of this own-initiative report. i am speaking tonight in place of my colleague thierry breton, who is not able to be present when we speak. i would like to thank mr doleschal and his colleagues from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for the quality of their analysis of the implementation of the construction products regulation. like you, the commission feels that it is time to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for construction products and to finally maximise its potential. the current health crisis is more than ever a demonstration of the importance of a single market that is more integrated and more competitive. the single market is a condition for the resilience and recovery of our economy. the single market is also the key to successfully completing the dual transition to a greener and more digital economy. as your report points out, in europe 18 million people are employed in the construction sector, which contributes to 9% of gross domestic product. as the 2015 implementation report and the 2019 evaluation show, the construction products regulation is in a deep crisis. we are in a deadlock on technical standardization for construction products, because the standards proposed to us by the european committee for standardization (cen) for quotation in the official journal cannot be quoted for mainly legal reasons. in addition, most of the existing standards no longer meet the expectations of the member states, the industry and the construction industry. as for market surveillance, it is uneven and inadequate. the interpretation of the regulation by the member states varies considerably, which distorts the rules of the game. the main problem is, of course, the impasse of standardization. like our partner, cen, we have done our part to solve the problems of the construction products regulation in its current form. the joint standardization initiative consisting of a three-year dialogue with cen, which ended in december 2019, has not produced tangible results and the european commission has no legal power to correct the shortcomings of technical standards in the current regulatory framework. we know that all stakeholders are desperate for a glimmer of hope. we are fully aware of this and of the impact of the current situation on the sector. a solution must therefore be found. however, given the repeated failures of recent years, there is unfortunately no guarantee that with cen we will finally find a solution within the current regulatory framework. nor is there any guarantee that if we do reach such a solution, it will prevent us from being in the kind of situation we are in now again in the future. while it would probably be simpler to keep the standardisation process as we know it today, we also need to consider other avenues, including back-up pathways that give the commission the possibility to intervene in the event of technical standards failing. such pathways should of course also integrate the knowledge of industry and other relevant stakeholders in the development of future technical specifications. repairs are one thing and the construction products regulation certainly deserves to be repaired in many respects. making the regulation fit for the challenges of the future is another matter and it is a major challenge: construction products represent more than 40% of the raw materials consumed by industry. if we are serious about the objective of the european green deal, then it is imperative that we tackle the task of making the sector greener and more circular. the european parliament's position on the question of adapting the construction products regulation to future needs will obviously be valuable for the commission's work and i thank you for your contributions to the debate this evening. i am glad to hear them, of course, as are your questions and comments.
i am not going to go into the details as he did, because he is the expert and i am not. but i would like to mention a few things. i have always been a proponent of regulations, so legislation that works directly for the whole internal market to create a level playing field for smes and large companies, but also for citizens, that gives clarity. now this regulation shows that there are standards in addition to the construction products regulation which are clearly not harmonized, and yet they still introduce thresholds per member state which do not allow the internal market to function. perhaps, as the commissioner has already said, there should be an accelerated procedure so that not only public authorities can go to the european court of justice through the judiciary, but small and mediumsized enterprises can expect a ruling from the european court within four months in the context of a binding arbitration procedure. as far as i'm concerned, set up special legal rooms for that. mr lebreton has already agreed to that. so it would be very good, because it would give particularly smaller companies very rapid clarity, legal certainty and would ensure that they can do business across the border. we were just talking about due diligence. i think it is very important to point out that companies from outside the european union cannot compete with our companies with state aid. and i think it is right that we apply due diligence to this regulation as well.
i am speaking on behalf of the s&d group. ladies and gentlemen, the report we are debating this evening on the free movement of construction materials is extremely important in my view, and as i have discussed it in my political group and with the rapporteur, i believe it is based on a real situation. firstly, smes complained that the current methods of market surveillance for construction materials are insufficient, but above all inefficient and that there is indeed a need to establish harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products in the internal market. of course we need to harmonise the rules for assessing product performance on the basis of key characteristics. it is also necessary to ensure a level playing field for economic operators and if we do these assessments, we will obviously have that. the assessment of the construction products regulation needs to take into account the costs that will be incurred by businesses, especially smes. national trade marks severely fragment the internal market and also create legal uncertainties for undertakings, manufacturers. i therefore believe that it is right to insist on a common technical language in the internal market and for national construction market surveillance authorities to work closely with national construction control authorities. thank you. thank you.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, to build a more resilient europe geared towards the green and digital transition, we have a fundamental asset: a balanced, efficient and consolidated internal market, in line with the objectives of the green deal for europe and the circular economy. rethinking the internal market must enable us to evolve with technological advances, make better use of current innovations and put in place new consumer protection. this is also true of a vital sector such as construction. we therefore call on the commission to undertake an ambitious review of the construction products regulation and to put in place effective, easily applicable and harmonised rules. some countries think they can get rid of certain common rules. setting up a clear framework for the whole of europe is therefore about ensuring that we maintain the free movement of construction products. so what we're asking is simple. first, find effective solutions to improve the governance of these actors. and then, quick fixes to improve the standardization process. to do this, we need a clear timetable and increased participation from member states' industry and all stakeholders. the construction sector is also suffering from the lack of digitisation. the increase in online sales should therefore also push us to regulate platforms as well. we need to ensure better consumer information on product sustainability and work more on reuse and recycling of construction products. this area is an essential part of the mosaic of a sustainable internal market and must be part of the future legislative review. dear commissioner, dear didier, our mandate at the commission is therefore clear: let us work together on solutions for sustainability, resilience and industrial efficiency.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr reynders, ladies and gentlemen, in france we have a saying: 'if the building is good, everything is good'. and it's true, the construction sector is often the engine of our economies. it is therefore high time to turn this leverage into a social, climate and environmental asset. the proposed text contains many advances for a construction sector that is up to the current emergency. clear, more transparent information on new product performance requirements related to health, safety and environmental aspects. these performance requirements are the key to a cleaner and more respectful sector. the support for the circularity of construction products, and god knows if there is much to be done in this area, real guarantees for the safety of workers who handle the products and of course for that of consumers. mr reynders, the commission must put the construction sector at the service of the transition. take inspiration from this report which responds to the current lack of framework. let us not fail in our obligations to future generations.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the construction sector is also one of the sectors of production hardest hit by the pandemic, due to the shortage of supplies of materials and the decline in investment and temporary lockdown of workers. in addition, thousands of businesses have been forced to close, with serious repercussions on employment. conscious of the need for immediate and effective measures, capable of involving the whole industry, we felt, together with mr doleschal, whom i thank, and the other shadow rapporteurs, that it was necessary to take advantage of this difficult moment to focus on a rapid recovery, with objectives such as the reduction of bureaucracy, digitisation and a level playing field between economic operators and market surveillance, especially with regard to all those products sold online from third countries, which at the moment do not guarantee either compliance with our standards or fair competition in the internal market. we hope that the commission will soon be able to close a number of loopholes which have in the meantime created additional national requirements and unjustified obstacles, as well as fragmentation and weakening of the internal market.
i have to say, madam president, the construction of europe must be green, it must be safe and it must be sensible. this is one of the messages we are sending to the european commission today on the construction products regulation. the new green deal and the circular economy must be part of the european construction. sustainable choice should be the first choice when choosing building materials. this is how we make construction greener. the new rules will have to be enforced more vigorously by the national authorities. we must be able to trust that building materials meet eu standards, whether they are built in billund or bucharest, so we can make construction safer. and specific minimum requirements must be used wisely and cautiously. the weather is different in europe and the rules should reflect that. the minimum snow load for a roof should not be the same in northern sweden as in nice. it's common sense. so if the commission takes our calls for the building materials regulation seriously, we can take a big step towards more sustainable construction in europe.
madam president, commissioner, we are at a moment when all economic sectors must adapt to meet the environmental and digital commitments that the european union has made. however, this implies innovation, especially in the field of building materials, where the focus must be on environmentally friendly, recyclable materials with a high degree of thermal insulation. we need these innovative materials to be able to reach the whole european common market quickly, in all 27 member states. this is why it is important to speed up the standardisation process and to make innovation accessible to all players in the materials market, from the giants of the field to small and medium-sized enterprises. financial barriers between large and small producers only prolong the transition period in the field of construction materials. for this sector, which represents 9% of the eu's gross domestic product - as you said - to keep pace with the development needed to comply with the green deal, the process of harmonising materials must be accelerated. increased cooperation between the european commission and the member states is therefore needed to speed up the implementation of existing regulations, but also to improve them and to supervise the market. only in this way can we ensure that all consumers in the union have access to high quality construction materials. thank you. thank you.
madam president, in january it was ten years since the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities became binding on the european union, but we still see that only a fraction of people with disabilities are employed full-time. unemployment among people with disabilities is almost double, and young people are the worst affected. the ongoing pandemic has shown us the consequences of the lack of work-from-home opportunities for these individuals. ten years after the convention entered into force, we can therefore conclude that the objective of labour market accessibility is still far from being achieved, whether due to persistent discrimination, lack of awareness among employers or environmental barriers, it is time to do something about it. first of all, we have to realize that unless we work to remove the physical barriers of the environment, nothing will change. often, the employee is unable to get to work because the workplace is not properly adapted. many people still live in institutions where employment is out of the question, and many member states are content to work in sheltered workshops. however, workers in such workshops often lack the status and protection of regular employees and work there for long periods of time despite the original purpose of such workshops. i therefore call for the completion of deinstitutionalization and debarrilization. the pandemic has shown us that a lot of things can work with digital tools. so let's invest in research and technology and new assistive solutions, let's embrace artificial intelligence, which has enormous potential as long as it's designed ethically based on quality data, and let's help people with disabilities to finally reach their full potential.
madam president, commissioner dalli. congratulations to the rapporteur, katrin langensiepen and the parliament team for the shape of this own—initiative report. renew europe firmly believes in creating access and opportunity for all to have a decent job, to be a productive member of society, to have an independent life. this includes people with various forms of disabilities as a primary target for our renewed efforts. what we need beyond educating ourselves and making all the steps outlined in this report is to change our perspective on the high unemployment rates we find throughout europe, among all categories of persons with disabilities. our ignorance, our intolerance, our outdated practices or our slowness to adapt, deprive even our societies of the talent and potential of so many of our fellow citizens. and that is a tragedy for all of us as a whole. we have to rethink the way we see this issue. this is not about expenditure to artificially pretend to create jobs for some people, this is about investment for creating access and opportunities that persons with disabilities need. we have over 30 million visually impaired persons in europe. the vast majority are underemployed or unemployed. yet smart reading digital tools, including the use of ai, make it now possible more than ever for them to perform complicated tasks which before were thought to be completely out of their reach. we need to support this resolution, but we also need to support the longer-term battle for labour and employment of person with disabilities, including with courageous and visionary investments. we will all be better off, we will all prosper if we manage to make this mental shift.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for the excellent work he has done. investeu does indeed deserve all our support. it is a common programme that actively supports promising projects and enterprises, that is based on real needs, that does not use subsidies, that encourages excellence, that provides professional advice, that takes responsible risks, and all in the interests of our common future. we also support this programme because it puts smes and start-ups at the heart of the programme and because investeu significantly simplifies the structure of financial instruments, including a lighter management layer. the fact that the new investment programme is being opened up to new investors is also a good development. investeu will support european companies to develop innovative products and services themselves, without having to rely on foreign financial groups. with the search for and distribution of vaccines in europe and the supply of medical equipment in general, it may have become clear to everyone that we do indeed have a great need for such an investment. it is therefore high time that the eu continued to provide opportunities for enterprises to develop in this field in an intensive manner. that is the best guarantee of future prosperity and also the best defence against future challenges of any kind.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the only way out of this crisis is for europe to take a different path from 2008. the seven-year budget and the crisis management tool are here to stay, and the union finally dares to encourage public and private investment instead of restrictions. the hungarian government has been doing this since 2010. investments can boost growth, create jobs and empower smes, which are particularly affected by the crisis. the eu's imf programme, for which i was one of the parliamentary negotiators, is a useful tool in this regard, as in times of uncertainty, a budgetary guarantee means stability. it is good that the programme also provides for massive support for smes and for so-called strategic investments that promote the eu's strategic autonomy. i ask the commission and the eib to adapt the form of assistance to the situation and needs of businesses, to partner in tailor-made solutions. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – madam president, i was very proud to be part of the negotiating team for investeu, the successor to the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), originally known as the juncker plan, which was announced by president juncker in 2014 to much scepticism and, indeed, some derision. but it became a huge success because of the good work of president juncker and also commissioner katainen – so successful that they stopped referring to it as the juncker plan. now we have investeu, which succeeds it. i think this is even better, because it combines the portal, the advisory hub and programmes such as cef and cosme to make it simpler, especially for smes, whom we all know – in my own country, ireland, and across the eu – have suffered hugely during covid. now we look to the recovery, and investeu is going to be very, very important in that regard. it will bring about what my chairman, manfred weber, is wont to say: jobs, jobs, jobs, investeu – and don’t forget it all began with president juncker.
madam president, i should like to welcome commissioner gentiloni to the european parliament. first i would like to congratulate the two co- rapporteurs of this file, josé manuel fernandes and irene tinagli, for the fact that they have managed to secure the financing for investeu the period 2021-2027 on behalf of the european parliament. i very much agreed with the initial draft proposal put forward by the commission. the parliament was also very ambitious in continuing with this essential financial instrument, and i regret the initial position of the council to cut the funding, the financing to this essential instrument. however, it is good that in the final stages of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, we have managed to secure the top-ups and then we have also managed to insert some synergies between investeu and other eu funds, which i believe will make investeu at least as effective as its predecessor, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) was. what have we managed to do? we have, for example, managed to agree that four percent of the recovery and resilience facility, a national member state can decide voluntarily to transfer to investeu, including to the solvency instrument if this serves their interests. this is very good because we see in several member states there are cash problems, there are issues with the cash reserves and this opportunity to transfer money to investeu to finance solvency instruments at national level will secure adequate financing for small and medium-sized enterprises in these challenging times. i would also like to say a word about the geographical balance, because efsi has been in place for some years, we have learned some lessons — we should we should make best use of them for the next years. i fully agree that investeu you remains a market-driven and a demand-driven instrument. it should finance the best projects exactly where they are found. however, we should try to intensify, commissioner, our efforts in providing assistance to the countries with the least developed financial markets. technical assistance through the advisory hub we have on the ground will increase the visibility, it will increase the acceptance of this instrument. all in all, congratulations to colleagues. i really believe we have a good instrument for the next years.
madam president, commissioner, a year ago we were discussing in this house the implementation of the juncker plan, an instrument to accompany the recovery process and to ensure that no one is left behind at the start, after the financial crisis. at that time some of us thought that the juncker plan should be financed by community debt, but there was no agreement in this house or in the council, so we at least got it to be contingent debt: the guarantee that the juncker plan has been using for the last few years is nothing but contingent debt borne by the community budget. and it has worked well, so well that we are now discussing the indefinite maintenance of that juncker plan, now called the investeu programme. i would like to highlight the work of this parliament in negotiating this instrument, raising the amount somewhat, introducing a vision of strategic investments in each of the action lines of the investeu programme, and of course recovering the possibility of intervening, the possibility of entering into the capital of companies, the possibility of maintaining this solvency instrument which the commission had presented and which the european council rejected in july. a work by parliament which will help to improve this investeu programme to finance the years that are now ahead of us and which will allow the investeu programme to help, a lot, regions in energy transition, like my own, asturias, through that second pillar of the just transition mechanism in which the investeu programme will collaborate, also cooperating and using and seeking synergies between the investeu programme and what is strictly the european recovery fund. i said at the beginning that the juncker plan was an experiment that worked well, an experiment that started with contingent debt: a success that now encourages us in the next generation eu process, which issues strictly community debt. i am convinced that the success of the juncker plan, which we are now seeing with the maintenance of the investeu programme in the medium term, will also be achieved by the issuing of community debt by the next generation eu, and that in a few years we will be debating the establishment and maintenance of a permanent fiscal policy instrument throughout the union.
madam president, we are on the final stretch of a long run which started in december 2014 after jean—claude juncker had announced his plan for the efsi, thereafter called the juncker plan. there are two colleagues i would like to name in this connection – josé manuel fernandes and udo bullmann. you were the real trailblazers in an exceptionally rapid process; and we have some other veterans from those years – colleague eickhout and colleague mureşan. the plan was a huge success, helping one million smes and start-ups, creating more than 1.4 million jobs. for this reason, the hopes for investeu are very high and i am sure it will deliver. especially in these times, there is an enormous need for a special kind of investment and innovation. this is not just for an ordinary recovery. this is for the future. the estimated eur 650 billion in additional investments mobilised by this new fund would have been much needed in non-pandemic times, but it’s even more needed now. investeu’s basic promise was to tackle the investment gap and this gap still exists. investeu is a policy-driven tool aiming at really changing the structures and of industry in europe. i am therefore very happy that we are finally on this stage of the run and debating the fund in this chamber. when we see the results, let’s say in the mid-2020s, i hope we can say that we once more made the right decisions.
madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr fernandes and ms tinagli, for their excellent work on the investeu programme, and i do think that these negotiations show once more how difficult it is to get serious investment programmes with the council. sorry to see that also the council is not present today, to be very honest, because it still seems a problem for the council to realise that there is a huge investment gap in europe and that the only way to address that is by a strategic programme being coordinated at the european level and make sure that we are investing as european countries together into a strategic direction where we think europe should go. and that should be the primary discussion in the council, as it is also here in the parliament. of course, the parliament fought hard and has made some improvements, but to be very honest, some people said that this is a paradigm shift. sorry to say that it’s not yet, since there is too much resistance in the council – and also, i dare to say, sorry, commissioner, you come up with good proposals, but the moment the council is weakening it, you very quickly sideline with the council to give up on your demands. and i think that really should change. we really should fight together on a strategic investment programme, not only on public finance, like on the recovery and resilience facility (rrf), but also on mobilising private investment through the investeu programme, the core of which is now there, but now, of course, we have to look at how it’s going to be implemented. and there, we need to really align the implementation of investeu together with what we have agreed in the rrf. that means on financing, on climate, that we use the same climate tracking methodology, but that we also use the same approach to make sure that none of the euros is doing any significant harm to our strategic goals of europe. and i think that is absolutely crucial to have in place. my last point, and this is for a future agenda and very important, i think, as well, is there is still a tool that has not been touched upon yet, and that is state aid. every national member state is giving a huge amount of state aid. we have to make sure that all that money is going in the same direction and is supporting for the same targets. we know it’s being reviewed now, but until now, we don’t hear the same level of ambition to really make sure that those state aid rules are also going into the same direction that we really can, as europe, deliver on our strategic targets of digitalisation and the green deal.
madam president, the european union needs strong investment and, in order to invest in sustainable and inclusive growth, it needs strong public support and a european project that will also leverage private investment that can reduce unemployment. investeu is a positive but totally inadequate step. the council has cut the resources proposed by the commission for this european investment project. the commission proposed €75 billion in guarantees and the council reduced them to €26 billion - just one third - so i do not understand the celebrations and the congratulations, mr gentiloni! i do not understand why the commission is accepting, and even celebrating, the cut in two-thirds of its original proposal. as long as the commission refuses to ally itself with the european parliament in calling for more ambitious european solutions and submits to the council's cuts, we will see recession, inequalities, high unemployment and social exclusion. and we need the exact opposite.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the covid-19 pandemic has had a major social and economic impact on member states. in this regard, the investeu programme is a new instrument that brings together several funding programmes and, together with the recovery and resilience facility, should ensure a sustainable union-wide economic recovery. the investeu fund consists of a european guarantee worth over eur 91 billion at union level and we are expected to mobilise over eur 1 200 billion of additional investment. but it is not enough to mention these figures. the investeu programme must be more than the european fund for strategic investments, it must support in real terms both the economic sector, especially smes and start-ups, and the strategic objectives of modernising infrastructure, whether it is transport, digital, educational or environmental infrastructure. therefore, we need to understand the limitations of previous programmes well in order to be able to ensure that all member states will benefit from the available resources. in that respect, my amendments have been clear. we need adequate geographical coverage, especially of regions with limited funding capacity, and a multi-sectoral approach, allowing for the development of strategic sectors in all member states. obviously i thought here also of my country, romania, which unfortunately failed to access many of the financial programmes previously available and which developed a small number of sustainable projects. given that much of the funds made available at first instance will also come from unspent european funds, it would be appropriate to ensure that states with a reduced capacity are adequately supported. this is also why i proposed funding for health, innovation, digitalisation, the cultural and creative sectors and education in this programme and i am pleased that these components affected by structural underfunding at union level have been included. finally, one of the central objectives i advocated was the need to counter the risk of an asymmetric recovery. the technical assistance and advice component of the programme should be strengthened to ensure a return of all member states and to enable the most affected sectors, in particular smes, to benefit from financial support. the investeu programme represents an opportunity, but it is up to the member states to make appropriate use of these resources. thank you. thank you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are adding another cornerstone to the european construction, to the solid recovery plan we are proposing. and this brick that we are adding today is one of the most important, because we cannot consolidate european development without investment, without supporting the private environment, without entrepreneurs, without encouraging innovation and creativity in the private sector. and if we really want economic and social resilience, then we really need to support sustainable, modern investments, investments that encourage close cooperation between the private and public sectors. i thank my colleagues at renew for transforming together a tool that puts smes at the forefront, that provides financial support to companies that have been weakened by the crisis, so that we can have them alongside us in rebuilding the european economy. i am also grateful to them that investeu will be able to finance education, vocational training projects, with a dedicated social area window. parliament has demonstrated exemplary coordination and demonstrated that a recovery plan means a synergy of public and private investment. therefore, the recovery and resilience facility, where i participated as a co-rapporteur, provides the possibility for member states to transfer 4% of the available funds to investeu, in order to stimulate the private sector to help implement the national recovery and resilience plans. these are the results of team europe, of which i am proud to have been a part. thank you. thank you.
madam president, in my view, investeu is a threefold action meant to benefit the citizens, the national administrations and the international position of the eu. the covid pandemic spotlighted the investment gaps in our strategic sectors. it made clear that we need to build autonomy at home. critical infrastructure should be the first priority for each member state. by investing today in our hospitals, pharma production, safe and secure roads and sustainable energy, we shall prevent fatalities and avoid heavy social security costs. innovation inside the eu is key to future strength. we need to be ready for future challenges and prepare, at national and eu level, to be leaders in research and new technologies meant to help the next generations. but, to maximise the added value of investeu, we need stronger national financial institutions. potentially, some eur 400 billion are waiting to be invested. and yes, we can rely on the investment ‘advisory hub’ to help the implementation, but we also need strong and performant national development institutions. last, but not least, investeu as a tool for strategic autonomy will make the eu less dependent on foreign providers. the eu should never negotiate with third countries from the position of need. energy autonomy is just one example. it’s unfair to justify projects such as nord stream 2, just by the need for energy resources, while inside the union we have all it takes to produce extra energy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. without investment, we will not get out of the crisis. we all agree on that. with investeu, we have created a programme to make it easier to invest. and that's a good thing! yesterday was international women's day. we have heard that women are the heroes of the crisis, and yet they are also the worst affected group. too many women lost their jobs. too many women working on the edge. i therefore consider that every day is international women's day, and that is why these investments must also benefit women, i.e. a start-up run by women, a nurse for example. we must think of women in every investment under the investeu programme, whether it be research, digitalisation or, above all, social investment. what we need is for women to have easier access to investment capital, which we actually benefit from.
madam president! investeu is an ambitious european union fund designed to stimulate private investment and contribute to the union's priorities, including sustainable infrastructure, research and innovation. the fund will replace a number of union financial instruments implemented in the previous perspective, which, despite having similar objectives, were often based on different assumptions and principles. the creation of such a single fund is a great simplification and also gives a sense of greater coherence and transparency. that's good news, very good news. however, i hope that those responsible for developing the rules for mobilising this instrument will be consistent and introduce the idea of simplification also at the level of project implementation. the good news is that the fund is highly flexible and can be combined with other forms of support, such as grants. investeu should facilitate access to finance for smes, which is particularly important in these difficult times of economic slowdown. however, special attention should be paid to those sectors that have been most affected by the current crisis. many entrepreneurs will have a huge problem generating their own contribution to potential projects. all they have today is debt and no credit. i often hear the slogan so no one is left behind, eagerly repeated in this building. this is gonna be the real test of whether this is just a slogan or a real message.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. even before covid-19, it was clear that the level of public and private investment is too low overall. this has led to a loss of ground for the european economy in international comparison. in addition, the gigantic challenges of climate-neutral and digital transformation cannot be met without a massive increase in public and private investment. the situation was further exacerbated by the massive decline in economic performance due to the pandemic. investeu will make a significant contribution to closing the existing gap between public and private investment. investeu will help to stimulate and implement key climate-neutral and digital transformation projects in companies, regions and municipalities. and investeu also makes it possible to strengthen social infrastructure and invest in education and training of workers. investeu is thus an important building block in our reconstruction and modernisation strategy.
madam president, no one can deny that we are in a dramatic situation; covid-19 is hitting us so hard that we need a strong union, capable of having strong tools to encourage investment and growth. europe must do everything possible to save its businesses, to maintain and create quality jobs, to respect the environment and to contribute to competitiveness and productivity. and there is the investeu programme, which will mobilise over €370 billion in public and private investment. but it is not just a figure; it is probably not the solution to the political, social and economic crisis we are experiencing, but it will be an opportunity and a hope for many small and mediumsized enterprises, for many sectors and for many regions, including my own, the canary islands, where thousands of smes need this instrument to save themselves and maintain and create quality jobs in a situation that for many of them is unsustainable. there is no recovery without investment. the challenge is great: it will test the ability of companies to generate projects, but also the leadership capacity of governments to develop the necessary reforms, and we can in no way accept that governments use aid for smes and the selfemployed in a sectoral way. aid is for job creation, not to whitewash incompetent governments. once again, europe has shown that it is able to step forward when it is needed most, and i hope that governments will do the same.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the european investment bank warned earlier this year of a growing investment gap. 45% of european companies are unwilling or unable to invest less because of corona. the investeu programme is excellent at closing this investment gap and making the post-corona recovery a success. we need private financing resources in addition to the public funds for reconstruction. this is precisely the objective of investeu. the eu is committed to investing €372 billion over the next seven years in reconstruction, strategic investment, digitalisation and sustainability. the first priority must be to safeguard jobs and support our businesses. the investment programme from the last budget managed to finance over one million smes and start-ups, creating 1.4 million new jobs. one example is the company biontech, which financed the biotech company that first brought the vaccine to market, is supported by this very programme. this is precisely what is needed: to give special support to start-ups, small and medium-sized enterprises. that is what we have to do and that is what the investeu programme is doing.
member of the commission. – madam president, we know that we are still fighting the pandemic, we still have lockdowns and stringent measures in several european member states and we have also cases of covid increasing in 13 to 15 member states today. but we also know that at the end, the recovery will gain momentum and will come. and at this point, we have to be ready to mobilise against the investment gap that we will have to face, because to ensure the quality of the recovery, we need investments. we need private and public investments, national and common tools for investments. and of course, we need to try to coordinate as far as possible then towards equality, the green and digital transition, the resilience of our societies. for this reason, i think the tool we are discussing today is so important. i think it is very important also that we have a quasi unanimity here in parliament. of course, we are not happy with the cut that was decided on the initial proposal of the commission, but in any case this remains a very important tool. we reduced as you know the multiplier effect of the guarantee. so the numbers that we are mentioning, which is almost eur 400 billion of investment, are realistic numbers and they will give a significant contribution to fill this investment gap. i think it is very important also the contribution adding to the eib, coming from the national promotion banks because they have deep roots and deep knowledge of their national economies, this will help, i think. final point, a commitment from my side and the commission’s side. we will help especially small and medium enterprises in the procedures. we have an investment hub exactly for this reason. we will build on lessons learned from the previous experience of the juncker plan to try to use, in the best way possible, the resources that we are deciding.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. today, cyprus and the eu are facing a pandemic and socio-economic crisis. i cannot imagine where we would be without the collective effort in the eu and the substantial health and socioeconomic support from the eu. cyprus is supporting its exit from the socioeconomic crisis through the investment plans, the development fund, and the new ambitious investeu investment programme. after a long and hard effort, as the committee on budgets, we finally succeeded in getting another strong investment programme, investeu, voted in favour in the european parliament. our endeavour, since the beginning of the pandemic crisis, in the european parliament and in the committee on budgets, has been to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past in crisis management, which led to zero investment, with huge consequences for the economies, societies and citizens of the member states. now our main objective is to respond dynamically to the crisis with strategic investments, with substantial funds allocated to eu member states and with strong investment programmes, such as the development fund and invest eu, which will move all productive sectors of the economy and bring employment, prosperity and real growth.
in writing. – public investment alone is not enough to bring about europe’s economic recovery. even before the pandemic, the european commission had calculated the eu had an investment gap of more than 260 billion euro and this has surely increased since the onset of the health and economic crisis. private investment is key to bridging this gap and luckily, we have a tool on the short-term horizon that can help us do just that: investeu. this programme brings together 14 eu instruments that were previously separate - investeu has the power to mobilise up to 400 billion euro in investments in europe. the combination between public and private investment is key to enhancing europe’s competitiveness, improving connectivity, and further strengthening economic and territorial cohesion. this investment programme will help create jobs, which has been a key focus of the epp group when it comes to the current economic crisis. investeu is one of the best instruments to help us come out of this crisis stronger and catch up to global competitors. more than that, this programme has the potential to propel europe into a new type of prosperous, sustainable, future-oriented economy by encouraging private investment from leading innovative companies and smes.
in writing. the regulation establishing the investeu programme responds to the need to mobilise - in addition to the grants and loans from the recovery and resilience plan massive public and private investments, which will help to bring the european economy out of the crisis. the public guarantee, worth eur 26 billion, is designed to encourage investors in the four key areas for the future: sustainable infrastructure, digitalisation, smes and professional skills. it is important that member states will be able to mobilise up to 5% of european cohesion funds and up to 4% of the recovery plan to finance the national contribution under investeu. this new financial framework, expected to reach €400 billion, takes forward the european fund for strategic investments, which has been a success - but not for all eu states. the gaps in the implementation of the juncker plan reflect an imbalance that risks becoming chronic between the new and old member states. the implementation of investeu should focus on addressing these discrepancies.
the next item is the debate on the report by cristian—silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the programme for the union's action in the field of health for the period 2021—2027 (‘eu4health programme’) (com(2020)0405 – c9-0152/2020 – 2020/0102(cod)) (a9–0196/2020). i just would like to remind members that there is no catch—the—eye procedure and no blue cards.
rapporteur. – madam president, the crisis has clearly proven the european union’s need for well-defined and adequately financed policy instruments in general and in particular in the health area. the eu4health programme is not only an appropriate response to the current covid crisis, but also comes to respond to the expectations of citizens, as many eurobarometers in recent years have shown us. at least 70% of our population ask and expect more and bolder eu intervention in the health area. also, the new health programme will deliver on better fighting against long-term strategic challenges – cancer, antimicrobial resistance, vaccine hesitancy, medicine shortages. for these, i would like to take the opportunity to thank commissioner kyriakides and president von der leyen for putting the proposal to have a stand-alone programme forward. i would also like to thank director-general gallina and director hudson for their support and excellent advice. furthermore, we would not have succeeded in finishing the negotiations last year without the strong involvement of minister jens spahn and the support and work of the german presidency. i would also like to take the opportunity to thank my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, for their work, and all colleagues who contributed with amendments and involvement for their support and collaboration. and a special thanks to peter liese and ppe colleagues. together we have achieved not only to amend, vote, debate, negotiate in less than half a year the fourth programme in the field of health, but have also secured a very important budget of eur 5.1 billion. eu4health will stand as the fourth health programme of the union as a separate instrument for the 2021—2027 period and compared to the third programme for health, eu4health will deliver on many more actions to support member states in the field of health and complement their efforts in reforming their systems to become more resilient. what are the main objectives? the eu4health programme is more than just a response to the covid-19 crisis. it will deliver not only on short-term crisis management but also on long-term objectives. eu4health will strengthen the european union’s fight against cancer, a very important priority for me personally and for my political group the ppe, but also for so many colleagues, with concrete actions to address the lack of screening, early diagnosis and access to treatment and care, and in synergy with the europe’s beating cancer plan. eu4health will digitalise healthcare, in particular through the creation and application of the european e-health record, and support the creation and use of the health data space future platform. eu4health will work in synergies with other programmes, instruments and funds. the europe’s beating cancer plan, horizon europe and its specific mission for cancer, the digital agenda and the recovery and resilience facility (rrf). eu4health will encourage member states to invest more in health promotion and disease prevention, especially for chronic diseases such as cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, and will focus on a very important medium-term objective – and for me, representing romania, this is extremely important – that health inequalities must be reduced. despite all the efforts done and made by the eu in the past few years and the progress made on health status and life expectancy, there is still unequal access to health services at eu level, and some of these inequalities are widening not only across countries, but also across population groups within each country. eu4health will support actions for training more health staff, address resistance to vaccination in the eu, and bring back the production of medicines to europe. eu4health will allocate funds for the establishment of a union reserve of essential crisis-relevant products and of medical and healthcare staff in synergy and complementarity with other union policies and instruments. the final agreement introduced also ceilings: a minimum for health promotion and disease prevention: 20%; a ceiling for stockpiling: 12.5%; for procurement complementing national stockpiling of essential crisis-relevant products; one for global commitments and initiatives: 12.5%; and the last one for administrative expenses: 8%. and this is something that the european parliament insisted on in order to ensure a fair balance and to have a very good budget which is going in the right direction. i would like to once again emphasise that this programme will be extremely important to deliver on what will be our future challenges – cancer, communicable and non-communicable diseases, antimicrobial resistance, mental health and ageing, vaccine hesitancy, unequal access – and we’d like to reduce inequalities, medicine shortages, and, of course, at the same time, we will be better prepared with the help of this programme for emerging technologies. dear colleagues, thank you very much. together, we have delivered both on citizens’ expectations and on addressing the challenges we are facing.
member of the commission. – madam president, this is an important day. it is the end of a journey and the beginning of another one. i am proud to be standing here in front of you today and to discuss, and hopefully adopt, the eu4health programme. people across the eu have expected us to act as policymakers, as public health officials, and as their democratically elected representatives. they expected us to act to address the weaknesses in europe’s health systems, which became even more apparent in this pandemic, but to ensure that we do much more in the future in every area of health. with the eu4health programme, we have the tools at hand to make long—lasting changes. together, we are sending a clear message that we need more europe in the area of public health. targeted investments to enhance our crisis preparedness, and to build stronger, more resilient and more accessible health systems are key. that message comes loud and clear in the eu4health programme, which represents, i would dare to say, a new era in health policy. this programme is more than a reaction to the pandemic. i want to thank this parliament for its support for this ambitious programme. thanks to you, this budget was increased to eur 5.1 billion. i want particularly to thank mr buşoi, as well as all the shadow rapporteurs, for their excellent collaboration, but also every single colleague in the european parliament. your contributions were instrumental in reaching the political agreement in december along with the german presidency, and here thanks also need to be given to minister spahn. this agreement, reached in record time, illustrates the power of collaboration and our potential to deliver concrete benefits across the union. the eu4health programme will support the fight against cross-border health threats, will reinforce europe’s health systems, will drive the digitalisation of health, and will strengthen disease prevention. we plan to structure the first eu4health programme for 2021 along these four health strands with a cross—cutting priority on cancer to support europe’s beating cancer plan and, yes, we can make a difference. the gravity of the health crisis demands the swift adoption of the eu4health regulation. we are determined that the first ever eu4health annual work programme will be ready for adoption as soon as possible so that we can roll out our eu—wide actions later in 2021. i look forward to presenting to the parliament the proceedings with the eu4health steering group and the consultation with all stakeholders. close collaboration is what has got us to this point, and only if we continue in this spirit can we deliver the health programme that europeans expect, deserve and, of course, need. the pandemic has taught us harsh lessons and has highlighted the areas where we need to take decisive action. knowing what we know now, we cannot go back to what was the old normal. indeed, we are determined to respond in a way that looks to the future and develops concrete benefits and protection to citizens. this is exactly why, in november last year, the commission adopted a package to build a stronger european health union. this package includes an updated regulation on serious cross-border health threats and proposals to reinforce our two key agencies, the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) and the european medicines agency (ema). this package is under discussion with the member states, as well as in the committee on environment, public health and food safety (envi). we need to do all we can to ensure that these proposals become a reality and, again, i count on your support. we will present our proposal on the european health emergency preparedness and response authority (hera) to strengthen access and availability of medical countermeasures later this year. in the meantime, we are already ready to roll out the first actions under the hera incubator, which will be supporting the production and delivery of adapted or novel covid-19 vaccines. we know that speed is of the essence and we have to urgently anticipate and respond to the growing threat of coronavirus variants. honourable members - and i would say to many of you over the last one and a half years, dear friends - i count on your continued support in the implementation of the eu4health programme and in the implementation of moving forward with the european health union proposals. together, these proposals will ensure that the eu is healthier, more resilient and better prepared. while implementing these actions, we will ensure that european citizens know that, for each and every one of us, health is our priority. so let’s do this together. (applause)
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on budgets. madam president, commissioner kyriakides, we are facing a historic vote today. we have a new european health programme. there's so much need for him. the diseases are identical, but the treatment that european citizens receive is different. we have the opportunity today to address health inequalities on the continent. yesterday, an article about intensive care in my city, sibiu, shocked and grieved europe, and romania. while in belgium the survival rate for intensive care for covid patients is somewhere around 65%, in the netherlands the survival rate for ati is barely 25%. it's not possible that in europe we don't share the same treatment regimens, especially the most effective ones, that we already know. we need to help the hospital in sibiu and others like it, so they don't send their residents to the front lines of the battle against covid. we cannot let two sister cities - and maybe my voice is shaking because it's something i care about very much - in sibiu and luxembourg, out of ten citizens, seven in luxembourg and only three in sibiu are cured in intensive care. that's why it's so important that what we do with this money is strategic, that we think about every penny, from the first to the last. we must think of them as the last reserve of humanity, because they are our investment in health, but they are also the symbol of our european credibility to the people at home. a health union is the first solid european health programme. states have understood too late that diseases have no borders and that solidarity is needed. as the rapporteur for the committee on budgets, i saw this when the budget was reduced from 10 billion to 1.7 and when we, all of us in this room, managed to bring it back to 5.1. it wasn't easy, it's not enough, but it was very important. i fought with véronique trillet-lenoir and other colleagues, such as silviu bușoi, to have european strategic medical reserves. today, tomorrow, we will have 640 million euros in strategic medical reserves. well, with the money we have, we need to make hospitals safer places, free of infection, prevent cancer, and be better prepared for the next crisis that comes. in romania we have a saying: "health is more expensive than everything". but expensive means, just like in french, not only expensive, but dear, cherished, beloved. if europe wants to be loved, it will help its citizens to be healthy. thank you. thank you.
in writing. i want every romanian's life to be protected. the most ambitious programme in the history of the european union - eu4health - is becoming a reality. all will be able to benefit from: 1. access to quality health care. the budget of the programme shall be eur 5,1 billion; 2. access to more high-performance medicines and medical devices at affordable prices; 3. effective methods of prevention. 20% of the funds shall be dedicated solely to disease prevention and health promotion; 4. european emergency medical support in the event of a health crisis (delivery of essential medical equipment and supplies from the newly established european stockpile, as well as a reserve of supporting medical staff to be mobilised in the event of a health crisis); 5. the necessary preparation for possible cross-border threats. two new programs are a priority for me: 1. the european programme for the health of children. i want all children affected by cancer and rare diseases to have free access to the best possible treatment, including cross-border access to the latest technologies. 2. european programme for women's health - to provide all women with free access to european programmes for early diagnosis and treatment of the three most common cancers (breast, cervical and ovarian).
madam president, three years after the commission's initial communication, we are facing a historic vote today. this control regulation is one of the most important files for the entire european fisheries sector. my country, romania, has a long tradition of fishing, and the black sea, as atypical a resource as it is abundant, and yet 75 per cent of fish stocks are overexploited, illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing has reached alarming levels, and iconic species such as the sturgeon are becoming history. the commission has therefore proposed that the regulation be amended to include a new regulation on the control of fishing activities, which is to be adopted by the end of the year. all this will put an end to unfair competition and the subjugation of this romanian sector. they will also help us to achieve the goals of the two flagship strategies of the european union: 'biodiversity' and 'from farm to fork'. finally, i would like to thank my colleague clara and her team for their work and i would like the member states to see the opportunity of this regulation.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i thank the ombudsman for her work in working towards a more humane, accountable and transparent union. it has a very important role in improving and clarifying the procedures of the institutions in dealing with citizens' complaints. the 2019 report before us shows that the institution led by ms emily o'reilly has done this work successfully, and i would like to thank her for this on behalf of the group of the european people's party. it is common knowledge that most of the complaints were lodged because of the lack of transparency and the lack of access to documents. both these topics are frequently on the agenda here in parliament. we agree with the ombudsman that there is a need for greater transparency, particularly in council preparatory meetings. surely, this is possible without jeopardizing the negotiations and the efficient work. during the period of vaccine authorisations, it is particularly valuable that the european medicines agency introduced new measures following the ombudsman' s inquiry. they aim to improve the independence and impartiality of the application procedure. we ask the fda to implement the new recommendations of the ombudsman in order to avoid conflicts of interest. it is important to note that the ombudsman ensures that citizens who approach him answer in the language in which the complaint was lodged. it would, however, be useful for the institutions to take account of the ombudsman's draft guidelines on the use of languages when editing their websites. ms. o'reilly, i wish you a lot of success in your future work. thanks a lot for your commitment.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for this excellent work that we were able to do together. as we debate today the european ombudsman report, we are in the middle of an unprecedented crisis, and particularly now trust in public institutions is essential. this trust depends on a certain number of factors. transparency is a key factor. it is a tool for empowering citizens and enabling them to participate in decision-making and engage in meaningful dialogue with the institutions. accountability, integrity and respect for ethical rules are also important ingredients for building trust in the eu institutions. the european ombudsman plays an important role here. it acts as a bridge between the eu and the citizens, and most importantly, it defends their rights. or, as you aptly said in a recent speech, ms o’reilly, you are in the business of extracting accountability. your office is therefore a natural ally in securing the highest standards possible for transparency and respect of ethical rules in all eu institutions. just like you, we believe that the revolving door cases raise questions on defending public interest and enhancing public trust, and the commission must recognise that if 99% of the requests for transfer into the private sector are approved, then the internal control mechanism does not work properly and we need to improve it. being a high ranking official entails responsibilities, and a tougher stance is needed in order to prevent conflicts of interest. i would like to commend you for your work and for your resilience. we also encourage you to do more and more within the european network of ombudsmen in order to exchange good practices, enhance cooperation and raise awareness among national ombudsmen of the importance of defending the rights of citizens. thank you again. thank you for the great collaboration and for everything that we were capable of doing together in order to extract accountability.
madam president, increased investment is the only way to rebuild the european economies hit by this crisis. to avoid repeating the mistake europe made in the previous crisis, we must align european economic policy and the budgetary policy of the member states with the expansionary monetary policy of the european central bank. only then will public investment be able to provide a new confidence and dynamism in our economies. the recovery plan we have approved is a powerful and supportive financial response which is now a source of hope for many europeans. but we must all respond to the call of the portuguese presidency by doing what is necessary to get the money into the real economy as quickly as possible. and we also need to ensure that the financial stimulus is maintained for a long enough time, which is why the decision to extend the suspension of the deficit rules is so important. to withdraw the budgetary stimulus too soon would be a serious mistake which we cannot make for the sake of the european project.
member of the commission. – madam president, i think the debate we had this afternoon shows the awareness of the strengths – i would say the unprecedented strengths – of the european response, the common response and the response of the member states. but it also shows the difficulty of the moment we are in, where at the same time we have to fight the pandemic because we are not yet out of the pandemic and invest in the future. and this is something that we have to work on together, fighting the pandemic and investing in the future. investing in the future means keeping supportive policies as long as they are needed. it means making good use of eu common funds. it means filling the investment gap that we will have, or that will risk public and private investment – this is also the discussion we had this morning on investeu – and it means concentrating our resources on the green transitions, the innovation and resilience of our societies. because indeed i think we have a good opportunity to build back better.
in writing. covid-19 is a major public health emergency for our citizens, societies and economies, which also represents a major economic shock for the eu. at this point, an important step has been taken especially in the perspective of finding an anti-covid vaccine. however, the eu's fight against this dreaded virus must continue. the union needs to invest heavily in the health system so that we can be sure that we are providing protection and safety for our citizens. equally, we need to focus all our efforts on generating economic growth. in this regard, the union has taken important steps and set up programmes at european level that enable member states to cope with the crisis through massive investment in the sectors most affected by the pandemic. the existing context provides us with the opportunity to reaffirm and implement our commitments to a green and digital future. now more than ever, we need to invest in educating children and in training adults in this key area to ensure that we have a competitive workforce. we are committed to doing whatever is necessary to support our citizens and the european economy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, to repeat once again the socio-political problems of georgia would be a futile exercise, not aimed at achieving a concrete result. today we should be talking about solutions, about how the union can take a leading role in opening a season of democratic reforms in the country. the caucasus region has already given us dramatic examples of how a vacuum left by a europe that is still standing can be filled by other geopolitical actors playing their own games and, of course, at the expense of the civilian population. we can't let this happen again. i would therefore like to express my firm and convinced support for the president of the european council, mr charles michel, and for you, mr borrell, for your efforts to encourage the opening of negotiations between the various political forces based on concrete objectives. we call on the government forces to sit down at the negotiating table in a cooperative spirit; we call for the involvement of civil society in the reform process that will be needed. we still demand an immediate end to the politically motivated arrests and the immediate release of nick melia as well. the european future of georgia depends on respect for these principles, and the streets of tbilisi are covered with union flags: it is time that the values they represent fully entered the political debate in tbilisi itself.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the internal political confrontation in georgia is jeopardising democratic consolidation. the citizens of the country are in danger of losing confidence in democratic institutions and in the elected representatives in government and opposition . we have a strong interest in de-escalation and it is good that we have a busy agenda with the country: last week the visit of charles michel in tbilisi, next week the association council with the prime minister here in brussels. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. it is not a question of short-term tactical advantages for one or the other party, but of returning to a common path leading to europe. we also don't want the key people for the government and the opposition to be operating in the background or from abroad. i am convinced that with the appointment of christian danielsson and with our ambassador carl hartzell on the ground we have a dream team that makes clear our mediation will, makes clear the importance we attach to relations with georgia. i am also convinced that they will make a significant contribution to the resolution of the conflict.
madam president, on 21 january georgia said it was ready to apply for membership of the union in 2024, and we were glad to hear that. while we want georgia in, does it know what it means to be in? i know that transition from a closed society to a just, transparent and democratic system is never an easy one. i come from romania and we have experienced that for the last 30 years. if georgia truly wants to change the trajectory and ascend to a euro-atlantic integration, it needs to really show commitment. it needs to be more reform-oriented and more creative and open in its foreign policy. it must fully undo the damage left by the previous flawed regime. it must commit to the rules and values that make us europeans. georgians can no longer situate themselves between real democracy and imitation democracy. violent clashes, the use of excessive force and the suppression of civil society are unacceptable. i hope that georgia will find that point of balance where political pluralism is reinforced and the pluralisation of the society is toned down. if georgia wants european and atlantic integration, it cannot slip down the claws of corruption. democracies are tested every day throughout the world. it is a win or lose game. georgia, i believe, needs to win at this one.
madam president, i am a citizen of a country, romania, which has been and is still sometimes going through great political turbulence. like georgia, we have in our neighborhood the same state whose leaders choose war in all its forms as the only form of communication. like georgians, we went through a toxic and dark era that seemed endless, but we were able to make progress because in a few key moments we made common ground - citizens and the political class alike. this is a key moment for georgia. prolonging this conflict that has already lasted too long could have serious consequences for years or decades. any belief that the political struggle is more important than the fate of a nation will leave ruins where a democratic construction has begun to rise, and any external discourse that will encourage one camp at the expense of the other will be harmful, because it will only fuel hatred in a country that wants to come out. our duty here is therefore to do everything humanly possible to bring power and opposition to the same table. it is the only solution for democratizing georgia and bringing it closer to the european union.
i would like to inform the honourable members that, with regard to the recommendation for the second reading by the honourable. maria grapini on the customs programme (a9-0038/2021), no proposal for the rejection of the council's position (05265/1/2021 c9-0091/2021 2018/0232 ((cod)) was submitted and no amendments were submitted under articles 67 and 68 of the rules of procedure. the council's position is thereby approved. the proposed act is therefore adopted. the commission has informed us that it wishes to make a statement in this regard, and i will therefore give the floor to executive vice-president valdis dombrovskis.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank the european parliament for its work on this file and to make the following statement on behalf of the commission: ‘in its proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the “customs” programme for cooperation in the field of customs, the commission proposed to replace and repeal decision 70/2008/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 15 january 2008 on a paperless environment for customs and trade (former e-customs decision). decision 70/2008/ec serves as the legal basis for the multi-annual strategic plan for customs (masp-c). the commission proposed to have this legal basis in article 12 of the regulation instead of decision 70/2008/ec. for the sake of compromise, the commission does not object to delete references to the masp-c from the regulation and to not repeal decision 70/2008/ec. the commission regrets that by doing so, it cannot entirely fulfil its commitments under the better regulation agenda.’
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on: - the report by markus ferber, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the european semester: the annual strategy for sustainable growth 2021 (2021/2004 (ini)) (a9-0036/2021), and the report by lina gálvez muñoz, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on a european semester for economic policy coordination: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. i would like to inform the honourable members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, as in previous partsessions, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr. executive vice president, my dear valdis, i have to tell you something. commissioner, my dear nicolas! madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am not going to go into detail. i was very pleased that after long negotiations we had reached a compromise in the economic and monetary affairs committee, which was actually promised the approval of the three largest groups here in the european parliament. i was very sorry that it did not work out in the committee vote, because it would have been progress compared with the experience we have had in recent years. i am all the more pleased that we have now succeeded in proposing a compromise, which will hopefully also win the majority of the european parliament, in even more intensive negotiations with the other groups over the weekend - we did not have the vote in econ until thursday. because i would consider it very appropriate, madam president, that the opinion of the economic and monetary committee for the spring summit should also be available, and not just the report of the employment committee, which is certainly very important. the compromise we have found is solid and, i think, sustainable for all sides. we have made a few minor changes in detail and i hope, as i said, that this time we will be able to get this report adopted in plenary. i have already said this, so let me now come to the substance of the matter. i would like to emphasize two key points. the first is the question of what the european semester is. because sometimes i feel like we do a reflection essay every semester about what we'd like the semester to be. and that would have been a subject matter error in school. we will make an own-initiative report on this, at least on the econ page, what we want to see in the semester report, but that is not the subject of this report. the semester report is the central instrument for the coordination of economic policy. the european semester is about setting the right course for a stable budgetary policy, for a competitive economy, it is about fiscal policy, it is about economic policy in general. this is why the european semester is also closely linked to the building and resilience facility in this cycle. the european semester is not an instrument for the coordination of environmental policy or climate action or the implementation of other considerations. we have other tools and other formats to deal with this. let's be clear about one thing: if we rebuild the semester so that it can do everything, it will end up doing nothing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if we increase the range of measures from which the member states can choose, we will also increase the problem of 'cherry picking' of raisins. we should avoid that. the second point i would like to raise concerns the recent communication from the european commission on fiscal policy coordination, which is already being hailed by some colleagues in this house as the beginning of the end of the stability and growth pact. in recent months, the already high level of public debt in the member states has exploded. for those who are not concerned, i would just like to remind you of the greek sovereign debt crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the memory should be fresh enough to serve as a warning. many are resting on the current low interest rates and imagining a new era of stability in which even huge debt mountains would not be a cause for concern. the central bank will, after all, be able to keep interest rates low with its purchasing programmes. and again, this time we have an amendment which also says that these debts owed to the ecb should be set at zero. i'm just warning you, the last country that did this was argentina. i don't think the people in argentina did very well after that. we should really refrain from such thinking. it is by no means certain that the interest rate level will remain forever as low as it is at present. in the united states, we are already seeing that as the economy recovers, inflation expectations are rising and the yield curve is becoming steeper again. if this happens in europe, a debt level above 100 percent relative to economic output can very quickly become a massive problem. so we have to be very careful that the covid crisis doesn't become the next sovereign debt crisis. just as we need an exit strategy from the lockdown, we need a credible exit strategy from the national debt. what the european commission has put forward last week - and we will discuss it again at the appropriate time - may be helpful as a measure for the coming months, but certainly not for a longer-term perspective. however, such a long-term strategy for dealing with the eu's enormous public debt is urgently needed and should also be a top priority for the european commission.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, rapporteurs, vice-president dombrovskis, commissioner schmit, thank you for this opportunity to discuss the european semester today, a topic to which the council attaches a great deal of importance. as the pandemic continues to pose major challenges across member states, protecting our citizens, their health, their jobs, is essential. in this uncertain environment, policies must remain supportive of the economy. and we have a unique opportunity to work together to rebuild a better european economy, a greener, more innovative, sustainable and inclusive economy. the european semester remains a very useful framework to address these challenges. the council has recognised the need to temporarily adapt the semester to the recovery and resilience facility. but we want to build up on the established semester’s governance and processes as much as possible. to obtain financing under the facility member states are currently working on their recovery and resilience plans, which will include their reform and investment agenda, in line with the four dimensions of environmental sustainability, productivity, fairness and macroeconomic stability. and with the flagships identified in the annual sustainable growth survey. they should also centre on the green and digital transitions and also consistent with the country specific recommendations for 2019-2020. the portuguese presidency is fully committed to this process. we hope to arrive at the end of our semester with the national plans duly approved, as well as with the own resources decision ratified by member states. we would like very much to organise in lisbon on 21 june, a recovery summit, a conference shaping europe’s growth to discuss the outlook of the current economic and financial situation and what is the economy post-covid. now it’s time to deliver. it’s time to deliver on sustainable growth, on job creation, on high quality education, social protection and inclusion and environmental sustainability. and we hope that the social summit in porto in may will provide an opportunity to confirm at the highest level the commitment and ambition to put people first in europe’s recovery and beyond. there are many challenges and you have identified a number of them in this important report today. you have also done so recently in the discussions with the national parliaments, persistent and increasing inequalities remain between and within member states and regions. in fact, they have been exacerbated by the impact of the pandemic. these widening inequalities increased poverty and social exclusion. therefore, robust labour market and social protection measures need to be taken to mitigate the social and economic impact of the crisis. and this requires coordinated efforts. we also need a proper balance between boosting investment and implementing sustainable structural reforms to support the recovery. strengthening the single market is also key. supporting growth with smart fiscal policies while paying close attention to the long-term stability of our budgets and tax is also essential. and therefore we welcome the european commission communication adopted on 3 march, providing member states with broad guidance on the conduct of fiscal policy in the period ahead. it is important, as suggested in the communication, to relaunch the public debate on the whole economic governance framework once the recovery takes hold. madam president, honourable members, promoting recovery, cohesion and european values is a priority for the portuguese presidency. the cohesion policy as the eu main investment policy in social and economic and territorial development has demonstrated its effectiveness over the years, and in reducing all the inequalities and different regional differences. the recovery, combined with the digital and green transitions, need to take place in a societal, just and fair manner. and the european pillar of social rights and the action plan that has just been presented should continue to serve as a compass towards better working and living conditions in europe, steering the coordination of employment and social policies at union level. and to achieve this, it is also essential to ensure a meaningful dialogue. the involvement of local and regional authorities, civil partners, civil society, social partners, youth organisations and other relevant stakeholders in the semester in designing and examining the recovery and resiliency plans and the national reform programmes. only by working closely together to consistently push for an inclusive recovery will we be successful in creating tangible benefits for all citizens of europe.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, it is a pleasure to be here at today’s debate on the european semester. it comes at a timely moment as we are working hard to prepare for europe’s recovery, so i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their reports on the annual sustainable growth strategy and the social and employment aspects thereof. it demonstrates the broad alignment of positive views for our coordinated policy response to the pandemic. these have been exceptional measures to deal with an exceptional situation. we acted with great speed so that member states could do everything possible to mitigate the socio—economic impact of the pandemic. the unprecedented circumstances required us to adjust normal procedures – and temporarily adjust the european semester too. it remains our primary tool for coordinating economic, fiscal and employment policies. our joint policy response has been successful. we estimate that fiscal and liquidity measures cushioned the gdp contraction in 2020 by around 4.5 percentage points. this was facilitated by the activation of the general escape clause early on in the crisis, as well as by applying the full flexibility of state aid rules. as we prepare for the post—crisis phase, the eu’s massive recovery package, next generation eu, and its principal funding instrument, the recovery and resilience facility (rrf), will take centre stage. it is thanks in no small part to the european parliament that these were put in place in record time. with the rrf, the watchword for the coming months will be ‘implementation’. what is important now is to get high—quality national recovery and resilience plans prepared and rolled out quickly. these must be ambitious and contain an appropriate balance of reforms and investments. they need to address all, or a significant subset of, the challenges identified in the country—specific recommendations, and they should have a strong focus on the green and digital transitions. as the report says, the 2021 semester exercise offers a good opportunity to improve national ownership, since member states are developing tailor—made plans to respond to their different needs. here, the european parliament will play a major role and i will be addressing the house on this issue tomorrow. we know that we still have difficult months ahead, but there are grounds for cautious optimism. it’s still, of course, subject to high uncertainty, but growth should resume in the spring and gather pace in the second half of the year. but we should also look further ahead still in terms of our coordinated fiscal policy response. this was the aim of the updated fiscal approach that the commission presented last week. what is paramount is that fiscal support measures remain in place as long as needed. for this year and next, the overall fiscal stance should remain positive. here, we can expect a substantial impulse from rrf funding – and this without adding to national debts and deficits. regarding the general escape clause, the decision on whether to continue or deactivate it should depend on an overall assessment of the economy. the key criterion should be whether economic output has reached its pre—crisis level of 2019. according to our current forecast, gdp should reach its 2019 level towards the middle of 2022. based on this, the general escape clause would remain active in 2022, and no longer in 2023. then, at the appropriate moment, member states should resume fiscal policies aimed at achieving prudent medium—term fiscal positions. they will find it easier to do this if their current support measures are temporary and targeted, thereby avoiding a permanent burden on public finances. since the crisis has widened divergences and increased inequalities, we also need to improve convergence, resilience and ensure inclusive growth. our labour market and social policies will play an important role in this respect, and commissioner schmit will now address these points.
member of the commission. – madam president, this year’s joint debate on the european semester comes at a very crucial moment. i would like to thank the committee on employment and social affairs and in particular the rapporteur, lina gálvez muñoz, for the very comprehensive report and her presentation. parliament has underlined the importance of employment and social aspects in overcoming the crisis and putting us on the path towards renewed inclusive growth. it calls to give fairness and social rights the same importance as macroeconomic objectives and the social and economic model that improves the well—being of people in the eu. the covid—19 crisis has significantly increased the vulnerability of our economies and societies. its socio—economic consequences could leave deep and long—lasting scars, in particular on our young generations. it is imperative to swiftly implement policies and measures leading to a fair, inclusive and sustainable recovery. social europe must be at the heart of the recovery, and without a strong social dimension, there will be no lasting and sustainable recovery. we dispose of powerful tools – the renewed multiannual financial framework, next generation eu and the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) – to put the european economy back on track and boost reforms and investments, while fully exploiting the potential of the green and digital transitions. the european pillar of social rights action plan, adopted last week, embeds social progress in our recovery strategy and strengthens the social dimension across all policies of the union. our efforts towards a sustainable and solid recovery need to encompass all dimensions. social aspects must be on an equal footing with the economic, environmental and digital dimensions. the implementation of the recovery and resilience facility is embedded in the semester, and the latter will continue to play its role as the main framework to coordinate and monitor the member states’ economic, employment and social policies, based on the national recovery and resilience plans. the level of ambition of reforms and investments covered by the national plans should fully match the employment, skills, education and social challenges highlighted in the country—specific recommendations. the european pillar of social rights should guide the national recovery and resilience plans of all member states, thereby enhancing economic, social and territorial cohesion and supporting upward convergence within the union. the joint employment report, which has been adopted by the council, helps member states identify priority areas for reforms and investment to be included in their recovery and resilience plans. it is key to invest in active labour market policies and employment services, to adapt working environments and ensure adequate working conditions, to tackle labour market segmentation and atypical contracts, to ensure quality and inclusive education, to promote skilling, upskilling and reskilling, to boost employability and guarantee gender equality through equal wages and opportunities. the employment guidelines have been aligned to reflect the covid—19 crisis and take into account the green and digital transitions. they remain fully relevant under the current circumstances. we need to avert an unemployment crisis and further exacerbation of poverty and inequalities. the commission wants to put a strong focus on quality job creation, especially for young people and women. well—designed and coherent active labour market policies and effective and inclusive skills policies are key – not only to tackling the consequences of the covid—19 crisis, but also in accompanying the green and digital transitions to ease job-to-job transitions. i would like to highlight an important initiative adopted last week by the commission, together with the pillar of social rights action plan: the commission recommendation on effective active support to employment following the covid—19 crisis, called ease. this recommendation provides guidance to member states with a view to accompanying the labour market transition from declining to expanding sectors. it is based on the policy package and covers hiring and transition incentives, upskilling and reskilling, and enhanced support by employment services. it indicates how member states could use eu funds, including those available under the rrf, to support ease policies. we encourage member states to design ease policies and include them in their national recovery and resilience plans. we need to combine our efforts now to turn our recovery strategy into a unique opportunity to bounce back better and prepare a better future for our young generations.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, commissioners, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the european parliament, i would like to welcome the work on the european semester that we are doing and, i hope, adopting today and tomorrow. on the one hand, last summer and this winter we validated the european recovery plan, which is considered by the united nations to be the second greenest in the world. and now we're creating a new consensus to better connect climate change and macroeconomic policies. for the first time, in the report which i hope we will adopt tomorrow, we are linking a climate indicator to the european semester to ensure that the monitoring of economic policies which is so necessary, and the subsequent return to the necessary budgetary seriousness, is not done against climate seriousness, but on the contrary, allows the european commission to monitor in detail the progress of the european green deal, the progress of massive investment in green technologies, in low-carbon solutions, in the member states. it's new and it helps us not to make the mistakes of the past, like in 2009, and we're not making them again. this is a big difference and this is the new brussels consensus we are creating: not closing the budgetary gaps too soon and linking the budgetary challenge to the climate challenge: this is a great success that we can rejoice in.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. – madam president, the european semester process should be seen as a key eu policy tool and should be expanded to integrate better education, youth, culture and digital policies. therefore, the committee on culture and education (cult) urges the commission and member states to deliver on the european pillar of social rights by offering inclusive, accessible and high quality education and comprehensive lifelong learning and training for all. in this context, the cult committee called for a 10% ear marking for education in the recovery and resilience plans. we believe that the european semester format should also integrate digital education as severe discrepancies still exist across europe. macroeconomic efforts should also address the risk of poverty, especially for young people and member states should dedicate at least 2% of the recovery funds to the cultural and creative sectors, 25% for social investment and 20% for digital transformation. we also ask the commission to closely monitor the member states’ progress report on the implementation of the recovery plans within the european semester exercise to make sure they respect all these objectives.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, i am honoured to have worked on this report - the european semester - and i thank the rapporteurs for their coordination and collaboration. the covid-19 crisis has ended the upward trend in the labour market, creating economic challenges and social impacts worldwide. i would therefore like to welcome the economic and social response of the european union, which, through the sure instrument, helps member states to come to the aid of workers who have become technically unemployed and, through the recovery and resilience mechanism, gives hope to the european economy in a rapid recovery. the european union has thus learned its lessons from the 2008 economic crisis and acted in a timely and concrete manner, so that this year's european semester is of particular importance for linking member states' reform agendas, to contribute effectively to the dual green and digital transition with effects on employment, on lifelong learning and on improving access to social security services. through this report, i called on member states to maximise their efforts to invest in education, in raising the quality of health services and in preparing workers for new challenges. all member states, through internal reforms, must ensure a favourable investment climate, support smes in this transition and ensure access to public and private finance for smes. through a joint effort by the european institutions and the member states, we bring hope to the citizens of europe.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. my fellow members of parliament! this house has been unable to agree on economic policy coordination for over two years, which is a serious indication of poverty in a time of such severe economic crisis. as the committee on economic and monetary affairs' rapporteur, i have tried to incorporate all sensible ideas, whether they come from the left or the right, and to block those who want to be 'faithful to the majority of ep documents' and 'always about everything'. i am convinced that the text now before us is acceptable and i hope that everyone will keep their promises, even if the vote in committee was not. they're nice socialists, aren't they? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. that to create jobs and growth, we need both public and private investment, but also structural reforms, because sustainability is also, dear left-wing greens, not just an environmental issue, but an economic one. the commission has also been active in the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering. i ask the commission to recognise that the crisis is deep in 27 ways and that national recovery plans cannot be prepared at a single rate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. you know how you're supposed to start with the positive? i would therefore like to begin by saying that i am very pleased that we have been able to present our reports on the european semester in a stable manner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second point is that we must examine the effectiveness of the semester process. there are some voices - there have been requests, but they can only be rejected - to stop the process altogether, to delete the process altogether. i think that's a serious mistake. we should see how we can make the process more efficient. are we setting the right indicators? i am firmly convinced that with the conference on the future of europe we have a huge opportunity to look at how we can also strengthen the semester process. how can we re-orient the semester process and do this in combination with what we will also discuss later, the gothenburg social summit and the implementation of the european pillar of social rights? we have a real chance of moving europe forward socially. i would also like to say a word to mr rinaldi. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the community is not worsened. i can only say that if you are contributing to the political work here only dissonant cat music, you are not allowed to complain about it either.
it is clear, mr president, that not everyone has learned the lessons of the last crisis. when i hear some christian democrats in this house say that it is really just about budgetary rules, i think: they haven't quite got it yet. we need to invest in the coronavirus crisis so that everyone can be sure of good jobs and good care. europe is more than a currency and a market, and the economy does not exist in a vacuum. it cannot be about the interests of multinational companies while people are forgotten. the european semester, with the agreements that countries make with each other to coordinate their economies, must therefore also contribute to more secure jobs, to fighting poverty, to meeting the climate targets. this should not be a sprint to cut back as quickly as possible and to break up the welfare state, because if we immediately after 2022 return to the old budgetary objectives, the citizens of europe will pay a very high price. that is why i am pleased with the reports on the table, and i am also pleased with the intention of the portuguese presidency to talk about social objectives in porto, because as far as i am concerned it is clear. social objectives should be given equal weight with economic and climate objectives.
madam president, as a direct contributor from both the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i can tell you there is a reason why the european semester is now at the crossroads of our political beliefs here in the european parliament. it is because we disregarded its honesty and dismantled its credibility. we have seen this instrument frequently becoming a source of discord, and even an object of ridicule for national politicians. the degree of implementation of the country-specific recommendations is low. the national and regional parliaments do not debate openly about country reports and csrs. and look where all this has brought us: failing to create a european value added, lacking resilience and uncoordinated in our responses against the covid-19 pandemic. the annual sustainable growth strategy 2021 points us in the right direction, relying on the key role of the recovery resilience facility for our recovery, and by reinforcing the commitment to implement the european pillar of social rights through a clear action plan. dear colleagues, the time is upon us to restore the honesty and credibility of the european semester. we need a renewed european semester – one that is comprehensive, sustainable and innovative. instead of trying to outlaw bad policies, the new semester should nurture ownership of good policies within the member states, and should be a visible voice of reason that supports an informed debate and gradually builds up popular support for sound policies. fixing these deep-seated dysfunctionalities of the national political systems is not going to happen fast, but democracies mature and learn to control these tendencies. with time and perseverance, this semester can be a valuable component in facilitating this process. let’s start working together, from now, for a renewed european semester. yes, we can do it. (applause)
madam president, the covid-19 pandemic has shaken us all up, but it has not defeated us. the numbers are worrying: 6.1 million european citizens were unemployed in 2020. youth unemployment is increasingly alarming. 17% of young europeans are unemployed. but european instruments and mechanisms are still struggling to combat the pandemic and to recover our economies, and now is the time for deep structural changes and mature and responsible public policies. what solutions are needed for an economically healthy, democratically and, above all, to overcome this crisis? first of all we need stable and quality jobs, decent working conditions, reduced inequalities in the labour market, a guaranteed minimum income, active and engaged young people, children who can reach their full potential. i strongly believe, commissioners, that we need to do more because unfortunately, this pandemic will bring a wave of discontent and populism and extremism is hunting down all of these discontents to undermine the european project.
in writing. i want a new strategy for sustainable growth at european level. in the context of the pandemic, with new and new waves, concrete measures are needed to address and eliminate health inequalities and protect the health of every romanian during the current economic recession. the reasons for this are clear: 1. 10% of working europeans are at risk of poverty and a total of 90 million citizens are currently at risk of poverty in the eu. 2.1 million jobs were lost in the second quarter of 2020 alone. 3. the forecasts for the unemployment rate in the eu are bleak - an increase from 7.7% in 2020 to 8.6% in 2021. 4. we note the worsening of wage inequality worldwide, only partially offset by government subsidies and minimum wage policies. 5. the low-wage earners - especially young people - are most affected, and the unemployment rate for this age group has doubled (17.1% in september 2020) and is expected to increase in 2021.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for giving me the opportunity to intervene on this important topic that is central to the idea of a social europe and central to the plans and ambitions of the portuguese presidency. while diversity is a key characteristic of our union, there are some basic ideas about society that unite us and guide us all in the european union. there is the idea that the economy should serve people and not the other way round. there is the idea that people come before profit. there is the idea that a good society, a society that thrives, is a society that embraces all and offers equal opportunities for all and solidarity to those in need so no one is left behind. a society built around these principles offers not just fairness, but offers resilience, creativity and sustainability, and provides us with solid foundations to face the challenges of the present and the future, the covid crisis and the digital and climate transitions. the european social model has demonstrated its worth in the face of great tests, but it has also been put under strain by globalisation, demographic changes, the great financial crisis and the covid-19 pandemic. all of these challenges have hit the weakest parts of our society the hardest and tested our solidarity. since 2017, the european pillar of social rights has been our compass on the road to creating a social europe. we haven’t always met the goals that we set ourselves, but their mere existence has set the bar high. we have made significant progress by adopting initiatives such as the youth guarantee, the european accessibility act, the directive on work—life balance and many more. but now it’s time to act. it’s time to give new impetus to the pillar and turn its 20 principles into action. in this regard, we welcome the commission’s newly adopted action plan for the european pillar of social rights and all the associated instruments. these are significant steps forward for the construction of a stronger social europe. in the coming years, national recovery and resilience plans, together with the multiannual financial framework, will also provide a unique opportunity to invest in people, employment, skills and welfare, ensuring a sustainable and digital recovery. we welcome the action plan as an outline of concrete action, articulating the commission’s efforts with those of the member states with an active involvement of social partners and civil society, without forgetting the key role of the european parliament in this endeavour. it includes concrete targets with a detailed timeline of planned initiatives that will bring us a step further in updating social rights. strengthening the social dimension of the eu is the central theme of the portuguese presidency. we want to use our time at the helm of the council to strengthen europe’s resilience and boost confidence in citizens in an inclusive model of growth. the adoption of the action plan is a key milestone on the road to the porto social summit. the summit, as you know, will be organised around two events. on the first day, 7 may 2021, we will have a high—level conference that will bring together member states, european institutions, social partners and representatives of civil society to give impetus to the implementation of the pillar, emphasising its central role for the next decade. the outcome of the conference will fit into the informal european council that will take place the following day on 8 may. it will be an occasion to rally all forces to renew the commitment to implement the european pillar around the porto declaration. the ambition that we have set out for this exercise needs to take into account the diversity of the social realities of each member state. this is our starting point. the action plan clearly defines the road ahead with the goal of finding common ground, a road towards more convergence. according to the latest eurobarometer, nearly nine in ten europeans say that a social europe is important for their daily lives. this confirms that so much still needs to be done. it confirms the relevance of the porto summit and also confirms, in my view, that the social dimension will be an important theme of the conference on the future of europe, a europe that cares about people, workers, families, business, a europe that supports employment, skills, social protection and competitive economies, a europe that is more convergent, more cohesive and more inclusive. over the years, the european parliament has been a strong voice in defence of these goals. the own—initiative report on a strong social europe for just transitions, adopted by this house last december, is a timely contribution to the porto summit, proving that social europe remains high on the parliament’s list of priorities. in this context, we look forward to continuing to work with you, amongst other things on the proposal for adequate minimum wages and binding pay transparency measures. we know that we do not always agree on every single item – on the level of ambition or on the speed of change – but that must not stand in the way of us working together when there is such a need to do so. the council is also very much looking forward to starting its work on a topic inspired by the parliament, the european child guarantee. let’s unite our forces: institutions, member states, commission, parliament, social partners and civil society to make sure that we can progress towards these goals for the benefit of all citizens, making the porto summit a stepping stone in our joint commitment to overcome the crisis and build a strong social europe.
member of the commission. – madam president, on thursday last week, the commission adopted the european pillar of social rights action plan. the political commitment and contribution of this parliament have proven extremely helpful in this context. i just want to recall that in january 2017 (before the adoption of the pillar), parliament called in its report for a clear roadmap for the full implementation of the pillar. so you have successfully put and kept the need for an action plan on the political agenda. in december last year, you voted on a detailed and ambitious resolution setting out your proposals. these have been very much taken into account and have contributed to our work. so why do we need this action plan? firstly, because european citizens expect and want action – action in the social fields. the eurobarometer published last week showed that 9 out of 10 europeans say social issues matter to them personally. secondly, the action plan is a call for collective action in the face of common challenges. we have just had a long discussion on the recovery and methods for sustainable growth and a sustainable recovery. resolute action by member states supported by the eu allowed us to limit the rise in eu unemployment, thanks to an instrument called sure. still, some sectors and vulnerable groups in society have been disproportionately affected. our latest winter economic forecasts show a glimmer of hope for a resumption of growth in spring. we must maintain our unity as we move from crisis-fighting to recovery policies. thirdly, the pillar must stand at the centre of our approach to the transformation of our economy and society. we simply will not achieve a green and digital europe and recover from the current crisis without promoting social rights, without guaranteeing equal opportunities for all. with a new long—term budget and the next generation eu recovery package, we have put in place the largest—ever investment package financed through the eu budget, and i have highlighted the link between the national recovery and resilience plans and the implementation of the social pillar in the previous debates too. social rights, upward social and economic convergence and social cohesion need to drive investments and reforms in the national recovery and resilience plans. the action plan also breathes new life into the pillar’s 20 principles. it puts forward three eu—level targets for 2030. these are, or should be, an expression of common ambition. at least 78% of the population aged 20 to 64 should be in employment by 2030. for some member states, this means a huge effort because some are even under 70%. at least 60% of all adults should participate in training every year. here too there is a big gap, especially in certain member states. and the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion should be reduced by at least 15 million by 2030. i have just remembered that one big member state has left us recently. we believe these targets are realistic and that they should be the minimum level we reach. our action plan invites the european council to endorse them. this matters because it’s not only through employment and social policies that we will achieve these targets. we need to put social progress at the heart of all our policies. we also invite member states to define their own national targets, taking into account their starting position. we do not simply set targets and objectives and leave it at that. the action plan provides clear tools and policy measures to achieve these goals. we have put forward specific actions at eu level to support this. some of them have already been tabled, like the proposal on the framework for adequate minimum wages or the reinforced youth guarantee. some, such as the european child guarantee or the strategic framework on health and safety, are in the pipeline and others will follow this year and in the years to come. last week, we adopted a commission recommendation on effective active support for employment. let me stress the importance of this recommendation that provides guidance to member states with a view to accompanying labour market transitions and supporting quality job creation. it is based on the policy package and covers hiring and transition incentives, upskilling and reskilling, and enhanced support by employment services. we have also adopted the directive on binding pay transparency measures and a new disability rights strategy. there will be no sustainable recovery without guaranteeing gender equality and concrete measures for the most vulnerable, especially persons with disabilities. delivering the pillar is not the sole responsibility of the commission. it is and must be a common endeavour of all eu institutions, member states, social partners, regional and local authorities, and civil society. that is why our action plan recalls all the tools that we make available to support the efforts of other actors, namely the member states. it recalls the financial resources available, presents initiatives to support social dialogue, underlines the need to enforce the legislative acquis and, last but not least, confirms that the european semester will remain the framework to monitor and coordinate the implementation of the pillar of social rights action plan. in this context, we make a proposal for a revised social scoreboard, which will allow a detailed monitoring of progress. dear madam president, honourable members, together we are on the road to porto, as the president has just said, and we will strive for an endorsement of the action plan and its new targets at the highest political level. we have a unique opportunity to set the course for a fairer, more inclusive and more resilient europe. the commission counts on your support. as the portuguese presidency would say, it’s time to deliver.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. dear nicolas, you mentioned in your wonderful speech: nine out of ten citizens of the european union want a more social europe. and i would say that the 10% who do not want this are above all the self-appointed experts who have repeatedly told us in germany: minimum wage, that's something that destroys jobs, destroys jobs, devil's work. and these are the self-appointed experts who stood up at the social summit in gothenburg four years ago and said: 'this is typical europe again. lots of hot air, lots of nice words. it's all for nothing anyway. and four years later, as we stand today, we can call out once again to this self-appointed expert: congratulations! you did it again. you're wrong again on this matter. we have already taken a substantial step forward. the gothenburg process has brought the debate on social europe to the heart of all institutions, not just this house. many things have been put in place by legislation. although we have a lot to do on the subject of crowd and clickworkers, we have already created the first foundations here. you pointed out: the proposal for a european minimum wage is on the table and i am really happy and proud to be taking this issue forward with agnes jongerius in the next few weeks in this house. and one thing - you have mentioned our december report - that the commission and the council can look forward to, or perhaps even a little afraid of, is that parliament is the motor of this process and will remain the motor. we have a majority in this house for a more social europe, and we will use that majority in the coming weeks and months to support you on the way to porto so that we can have tangible results there too.
the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. we say we are going to listen to the people, we want to set the course and do it in a way that is closer to the citizens. but if one thing is clear, it is that nine out of ten europeans think that social europe should be a priority. in fact, strengthening social europe is not so much a project for the future as it is a project that links us to the past, because over the last two decades the union has been dominated by a neoliberal logic that has not been accompanied by the social policies envisaged. and so in november 2017, the european union proclaimed in gothenburg the european pillar of social rights, but we have not yet been able to implement it. and the action plan which the commission is now presenting is the beginning of a strategy which the socialists will not cease to insist on. commissioner nicolas schmit has made an effort, in coordination with my political group, to put forward an ambitious proposal which includes some of our demands, but not all of them. that is why we are insisting on it, and the portuguese presidency gives us the opportunity to move forward with a clear programme, with a key date: the social summit in porto, which will be a turning point. this action plan is a fundamental demand of the socialists and democrats and was part of our electoral program in 2019. we will not give up for two reasons: because there are injustices that have been going on for a long time, such as precarious contracts, youth unemployment, the gender pay gap, but also because there are new risks to equity and social justice in our model, such as the climate emergency and climate change. the social agenda is therefore undoubtedly needed and must be given absolute priority, because economic and social policy have been, since the beginning of european integration, two sides of the same coin, and one, the economic project, cannot succeed if the social impact of these policies is not taken into account. nor will we have a just society as long as inequality between men and women continues. that is why our objectives in the action plan must be more closely linked to the united nations sustainable development goals. what concerns me most about this plan is the lack of objectives and proposals for quality employment. it only mentions decent work in neighbourhood, trade, development policies... what about the quality work of europeans? in 2019, there were 91 million people at risk of poverty. and that's data from 2019, which doesn't take into account the impact of the pandemic. so we need to be more ambitious with child support. governments must commit themselves to plans for social progress with clear and achievable objectives: this is the only way to translate our declarations into specific and quantifiable proposals. i encourage the portuguese presidency to be ambitious and i offer it the full cooperation of my political group. i hope the others will follow that same path.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, secretary of state, commissioner nicholas schmit, congratulations on this bold action plan. renew europe likes to see ambitious and concrete goals laid down on the table for the union. goals around which we can all unite. at least five million fewer children in social exclusion by 2030 is, for me and for my group, a must. nevertheless, what is important for us is how we achieve these goals. and this is because – let us be honest – these are not new problems. if we are to succeed, we need to renew our approach and our methods. the commission must coordinate better with the member states on social targets, avoiding silo policies and one-size-fits-all solutions. but public sector interventions are not enough. we need a full-scale strategy for social impact investment, drawing in private partners and creating an entrepreneurial mindset for social issues where we create sustainable revenue and social profit. we also need all european citizens on board and all the knowledge of the civil society and ngos to have a chance to deliver. the lessons of solidarity learned during the pandemic have clearly shown us how strong we are if we act together. to get 78% of europeans in employment, we need to innovate and build a digital accessibility gateway. for those who are currently in exclusion, just seeing that by using digital tools we can and will open jobs for over 23 million visually impaired people in the eu, already 5% of your first goal, commissioner, is achieved. what we want to talk about is how we will use innovation, entrepreneurship, investment and wider partnership to reach the targets of our bold action plan. what is certain is that we, renew europe, will be at the forefront of the battle for our citizens’ future, harnessing digitalisation, fostering investment and opening up access and opportunities for all.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is truly surreal and paradoxical to be in this chamber once again to discuss nothing. yeah, i was. because if we are honest enough to really look at things, we realise that the governments in warsaw and budapest are criticised daily by many media outlets, without any censorship and without any limitation. we see that the polish government has proposed a tax on advertising revenue for the media, as is the case in many other countries of the union, without anyone in this parliament being outraged beforehand. the proposal is still being discussed, and the polish media have been free to express their disagreement and counter-proposals. apart from the propaganda, i have not heard a single concrete reason to say, commissioner, that the two governments have violated the european treaties. i do not think that there are any judgments of the european court of justice or of the respective national courts that go in the direction that many of you dreaded in the speeches i have heard. the only real thing in all this is the partisan instrumentalization that brings an astio against governments the italian one ten years ago, the polish and hungarian one today, the slovenian one tomorrow whose only fault is to be free from having and proposing ideas different from the mainstream in brussels and their idea of society. the european union is in the worst crisis in its history and part of this parliament, instead of promoting solidarity and cooperation, is trying to build fences and create divisions between the different peoples of europe, all this aggravated by the pretensions of giving democracy to governments which are fully democratically legitimated and politically accountable to their citizens. europe is not a huge state but is made up of 27 sovereign member states. i would therefore urge you not to use the institutions of the european union to solve problems which, under our treaties, must be solved at national level. i am not saying that, said viviane reding, commissioner for justice and fundamental rights and citizenship, but also for the information society and the media. these words were spoken by a commissioner in recent years, not by a sceptic/eurosceptic who takes a policy position of instrumental opposition. that is why we consider this debate to be surreal and express our strong disagreement with what is happening and which, incredibly, sees the european commission accompanying this debate.
mr. president, please! commissioner, colleagues, please! the slovenian opposition is using today's debate to overthrow the slovenian government. a recent survey showed that in slovenia as much as 80% of the media is left-wing and anti-government oriented. but still, the government is not restricting anyone, on the contrary, during the crisis, the media, and journalists, were given extensive state aid. commissioner, the government is not abolishing the sta. as its owner and paymaster, he expects the agency to report on its operations, but the director simply does not want to submit reports. slovenia's smear is spreading through all channels. dr. milosavljević lied in cold blood at a meeting of the parliamentary group for democracy. meanwhile, freedom house notes that slovenia's freedom index improved last year. this is an answer for those who are concerned about our democracy's decline. but as a young nation, we are still dealing with the consequences of our past. monopolies drain our country and hold back development. even through the media they control, they are fighting a desperate fight for survival. the accusations based on doctored newspaper articles and false testimony are damaging to slovenia and also demeaning. we therefore invite you, commissioner, to come to slovenia and see for yourself the situation in the media.
mr president, mrs jourová, if i may be so helpful to the interpretation booth, the verb 'procrastinate' means, in several languages of the union, to delay a decision for fear of the cost. this parliament launched article 7 years ago. the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights have deteriorated in hungary and poland, and the council has not yet taken a decision. and that is why we are discussing, once again, the deterioration of freedom of expression, freedom of the press and information pluralism in hungary, in poland and in slovenia. and that is why in this house we are going to vote on a resolution to get out of the way of this ignominy of allegedly lgbtiq-free zones in poland, declaring that the whole european union is a zone of freedom for lgbtiq people. so, council, stop procrastinating now! you have a chance to stand up to the european parliament by activating article 7. if it is not able to reach article 7 (2), which says that unanimity is required, except in respect of the states concerned, to impose sanctions, it should at least reach the four-fifths provided for in article 7 (1), stating that there is a clear risk of a serious breach of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights in hungary and poland, and stand up to the european parliament.
mr president, over the past decade, orbán’s regime has perfected the state capture of media, and it is now exporting it to poland and slovenia. the closure of klubradio is only one small step on this path. dear colleagues, i hope you read the letter sent today by adam michnik, the editor—in—chief of gazeta wyborcza since 1989. let me quote from it: ‘the rule of law is being transformed into the rule of coterie of a single party. [...] public media broadcasters were transformed into tools of shameless propaganda similar to that employed by vladimir putin in russia and recep tayyip erdoğan in turkey. [...] we are treated as enemies for the simple reason that we are independent and have the courage to speak truth to power.’ if we don’t elaborate a strong legislative proposal tackling slapps, if we don’t follow up on complaints on the breach of state aid rules concerning media, if we don’t make use of the rule of law conditionality when eu funds are at risk of being used to fund propaganda, and if we don’t support small and local independent media projects with direct and dedicated funding, then i am afraid that this battle is lost – not for today, but for decades to come.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we cannot therefore treat them as second-class citizens, and their protection must be our top priority. in november 2019, we passed an ambitious and broad resolution in parliament, but the pandemic has further weakened the situation of children and what was a priority is now an urgency. we must therefore build together an ambitious and holistic new global strategy on children's rights based on the best interests of the child and a gender perspective. we must strengthen the protection and rights of girls, who remain the most vulnerable: it is true that the pandemic has affected them less physically than adults, but the mental aftermath is worrying and the future consequences can be devastating. we call on the commission to carry out a study to assess the impact of the pandemic on mental health and to propose measures to limit the potential damage in the medium and long term. this strategy should ensure public investment in education, health, housing and childcare by creating a genuine european child guarantee to eradicate child poverty. member states should allocate all necessary resources to close the educational, gender and digital gaps. let's keep in mind that virtual school can never replace real school, because boys and girls need to play, share and learn together to socialize. the strategy should also include measures to protect them from all forms of physical, sexual and psychological violence, both in virtual and real life: look at what has just happened in france. finally, we must not forget the external dimension of the strategy: let us eradicate all forms of child labour and the use of children as soldiers; we must also strengthen the protection of migrant children and their integration into our societies and ensure that they do not lose their rights when they reach the age of majority. ladies and gentlemen, we've all been kids and we remember how we wanted to be heard and protected. let us act together with responsibility and ambition to give hope back to our children and adolescents in these difficult times so that they can dream and build their future.
on behalf of the renew group. i would first like to congratulate the commission on the initiative to launch the european union strategy on the rights of the child, which i hope will incorporate as many of the proposals i made in the parliament's resolution as rapporteur of the renew europe group. violence and abuse against children, both online and offline, have increased worryingly during the covid-19 pandemic, while social services and protection institutions have become increasingly inaccessible. according to the latest commission report on progress in the fight against trafficking in human beings, children accounted for almost a quarter of all recorded victims in the 27 member states of the union. we need effective and coherent legislation on the protection of children from violence, trafficking and exploitation, and all these initiatives need to take account of the union strategy. i have therefore asked the commission to publish a timetable for such proposals, while also ensuring the implementation of its recommendations through monitoring of member states. i also stressed that the online education system should only replace the physical education system in extreme situations and asked the commission in this context to make a thorough assessment of how the right to education has been affected during the crisis and to propose recommendations to the member states based on the results of this analysis. john f. kennedy said it this way: "children are the world's most valuable resource and our best hope for the future". well, if that's the case, how we protect, educate and respect that resource today actually determines the future.
mr president, if children are the future of europe, why do we have 25 million children in the european union at risk of poverty and social exclusion? that means that one in four children in the european union is left behind. the covid-19 pandemic has continued to amplify the vulnerability of families and severely impacted the well-being of many children. rural communities were among the hardest hit. for example, online schooling was not possible in an offline europe. in my country, one in four schools is not connected to the internet, and this has automatically affected hundreds of thousands of children. the situation is similar in many european union countries. children's rights must be a priority on our political agenda. the child guarantee can be one of the most effective tools that each member state should pursue in order to implement concrete public policy objectives and policies to reduce child poverty and prevent and combat social exclusion. i wish you the best of luck, commissioner.
mr president, it is now important to define taxation for the 21st century. for a variety of reasons, most of them relevant, the taxation of companies must meet criteria of fairness and fair competition, and this in a context that goes beyond the national framework, but also beyond the european framework. it is at these various levels that action is needed to stop the attempts of the information and distribution giants, among others, to evade funding from public budgets. luxembourg, aware of its responsibility in this area, has played a constructive role in this over the last eight years, according to the most eminent tax experts, starting with pascal saint-amans of the oecd. this is confirmed by luxembourg's open attitude to constructive criticism directed at it and other member states of the european union. the redundant and even pavlovian attacks by a few colleagues in this house are more partisan than a desire to build a more equitable future. i expect the european union to be aware of its responsibility to remove the obstacles which still stand in the way of fairer taxation, not only within the 27 but also globally... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, i would like to thank you. luxleaks, panama papers, open lux - how many papers do we need before we act? the tax evasion costs us all astronomical sums every year. imagine how much better that money would have felt if it had gone to welfare or climate change. i think we all do. yet, few people actually want to do anything. we have heard the right braking here in the house. sweden is one of the countries that has blocked progress in this area and the left party is the only swedish party that has consistently, here in the european parliament and at home in our parliament, worked to combat tax evasion. there are several things that need to be done. the eu must update its blacklist of tax havens and countries such as the netherlands and luxembourg must of course be included. country-by-country reporting on corporate profits must become a reality as soon as possible. public procurement must be used proactively to favour companies that do not engage in this kind of fraud. continuing to allow tax evasion is not an option.
mr. president, madam secretary of state, i have to ask you to consider the matter. commissioner, i am glad to be able to discuss these revelations about openlux today, but i would have been even happier if we had been able to discuss the situation in europe more generally. unfortunately, this is not possible because, at present, only half of the member states have a register of actual beneficiaries and, above all, they are not necessarily open and non-paying, as is already the case in luxembourg. luxembourg is one of the open countries which has benefited greatly from the four fundamental freedoms of the union and thus guarantees employment to the luxembourgers, but also to more than 200 000 frontier workers on a daily basis. yes, luxembourg is home to many european and international companies and capital. but let us be honest, mrs aubry, it is not much different from the situation of the avenue des champs-elysées and the avenue de la défense in paris. and it's not a secret, and it never was. but let us not forget that luxembourg is also one of the cornerstones of the capital markets union which is so desperately being sought. if we are to succeed in this exercise, we will need the combined strength of all our financial centres, with their respective specialisation and without unfair competition from a fiscal point of view. and i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to use this discussion in a constructive and factual way to fill the gaps that exist in luxembourg and elsewhere in the european union.
mr president, today we are discussing the openlux scandal: once again a tax haven within the european union. some data are chilling: 90% of the companies there are foreign; 50 000 shell companies manage up to six billion euros, 20% of which have not had any activity in recent years, and 80% of investment funds do not say who their ultimate beneficiary is. we have a serious problem, not only in luxembourg, but also in other parts of the european union. i welcome that there is a real political will to change that. we must now really get it under way; we must complete the negotiations on the directive on the disclosure of information broken down by country, on this fiscal transparency: i think it is a great challenge for the portuguese presidency and it must be a reality when it is completed. we also have major challenges that the commission wants to tackle and that we support, and the reform of the code of conduct is certainly one of them. and also a point that commissioner gentiloni has raised and which is very important: the reforms required under the european recovery fund must be used to require countries to reform tax rules to avoid this kind of practice; in that too he will find our support.
mr president, commissioner gentiloni, madam minister, colleagues, tax havens and banking secrecy are over, a french president said in 2009. 12 years and so many scandals later: luxleaks, fincen, openlux, all in one year. and all was said and so little was done. today, luxembourg is home to over €6.5 trillion in assets, almost 10 times the european recovery plan. it also includes 37 of the 50 largest french companies and fortunes that take advantage of a scandalous but legal system to steal tens of billions of euros from their country's national solidarity effort. some people think that the only way to make laws work is to exploit the loopholes in them for their own benefit. but not everything that is legal is fair and not everything that could be fair is always legal. so, since we cannot rely on the humanism of the gravediggers of living together, let us tighten the laws for a renewed solidarity. the resolution adopted at the end of january is a good one, take inspiration from it for a restored dignity for all human beings.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. tax justice is an important issue and many eu member states have to look in the mirror. a lot has happened since the panama papers and luxleaks. is that enough? i'm not sure. whether it is the list of eu tax havens or the transparency registers or the cooperation of tax administrations, there is still work to be done. i don't want to distract from my country, but i'm convinced that we need to work together to figure out how to make things better. the problems now identified by the free and open access to the transparency register in luxembourg certainly exist in other member states. my country has been uncooperative for a long time. but since 2014, luxembourg has made a lot of efforts and has implemented all the current rules. we would not be having this debate today if luxembourg had transparency registers like many other also large eu countries. that is why i am disappointed that the title of this debate targets only one country. the race to the bottom is not just between small member states but also between larger ones. they are as much part of the problem as they are of the solution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner gentiloni, i have been here for seven years now and i have heard many times the good intentions you have expressed here today. i have seen the finger pointed at luxembourg, but do we really believe that a small state can become the second financial centre in the world after the united states without the complicity of all the other member states of the european union? the companies with tax domiciles in luxembourg come from 157 different nationalities, including france, belgium, germany and italy: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. this is a class war between the rich and powerful, who make the laws, and the small citizens, the poor citizens who have to suffer those laws.
member of the commission. – mr president, indeed i think that the openlux case shows us where we are, because in fact it was the fifth anti-money laundering directive that we proposed and that we approved together – the commission, parliament, the council – that made possible access to this information. but at the same time this very access showed that a lot of transparency is still missing and a lot of work is still needed, and this is exactly where we are. i don’t think that this demonstrates that we are only using words. it demonstrates that we are working, but there is still a lot of work to do ahead of us. something is encouraging for this work and it is i think that the post— pandemic situation will strengthen the pressure, the momentum, to take a decision in this domain, because every member state, all our economies, will clearly need revenues and our citizens will make it very difficult to avoid taking decisions in this field, despite the fact that we know that we have our rules established by the treaties that make decisions in this field more complicated than in other fields. second, we have new tools. it was mentioned in this debate that the rrf is another instrument to try to address the issues, especially the issues in this case of tax aggressive planning, but also anti—money laundering in member states. so we have a global pressure on transparency, but we know that tax avoidance is also a global race gaining speed and sophistication, so we need to strengthen our efficiency to take new decisions and the commission is committed to advancing new proposals. and of course we need implementation, because if we take decisions and then we are not deciding the consequences, if the rules are not applied, i think we are not giving a good service to our institutions.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the investigative work of the press has been of great importance in the search for greater tax transparency by focusing on the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. it is important to know the facts and, above all, it is important to find ways of avoiding their repetition. as has been said here, citizens must have confidence in their country's tax systems. that's why this debate was so important. after listening to you, i am still convinced that we share the same common objectives. we are all interested in promoting tax systems in our member states that are fair and that contribute to our economic and social objectives. the commissioner himself said that there was a lot to be done. but i am confident that the member states will continue to follow their path together and we will do everything in our power as the presidency in office to contribute to this objective. we will continue to work on the country-by-country report directive with a view to opening negotiations with the european parliament. we will continue to discuss the scope of the code of conduct group's mandate and adapt it, where necessary, in those areas where there is consensus. and in addition, the code of conduct group has substantially increased the amount of information that is made available to the public, including through its website, bringing greater transparency to the work it regularly carries out, and intends to also make public its assessments and english translations of all legislation it has received once the council has taken a decision on the revision of the list. and these measures are important because they increase the information exchange and transparency that we all want.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
we now come to the second round of voting. before we open it, i would like to give the floor to mrs clara aguilera, pursuant to rule 59 (4), who will speak on the referral back to the committee of her report on fisheries control.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to ask, in accordance with rule 59 (4), that the report be referred back to the committee on fisheries so that the interinstitutional negotiations on the dossier can begin.
this request will be put to the vote after the vote on the commission proposal. we are now in the second round of voting today. the items on which we are now voting are included in the agenda and can be found there. the vote will take place from 7.58 p.m. to 9.13 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 9.13 p.m. the sitting will then close at 9.13 p.m. today and resume at 9 a.m. tomorrow with the announcement of the results of the second round of voting today.
member of the commission. – madam president, the new regulation on the general regime of conditionality is, i think we can agree here, an historic achievement for the union. for the first time, the union has a specific tool to protect its budget from breaches of the principles of the rule of law, such as compromising the independence of the judiciary, and this confirms our position as a frontline defender of the rule of law. the regulation allows us to reinforce the protection of the union budget and the financial interests of the union. the measures that can be adopted under the regulation include, for instance, the suspension and termination of payments, as well as the prohibition of new legal commitments and financial corrections. these are potentially very serious consequences, and the mechanism bestows significant responsibility on the commission and on all of us. that is why we absolutely need to get it right. we will assess alleged breaches in an objective, impartial and fair manner. the measures we propose to the council will respect the principle of proportionality. the procedure will also ensure full protection of the rights of defence of the member state concerned, including the right to be heard by the commission. at the same time, it’s of the utmost importance that the legitimate interests of beneficiaries and final recipients are protected. under the regulation, the imposition of measures does not affect member states’ obligations towards beneficiaries and final recipients. i remember this was one of the key discussions during the final negotiations on this subject. i can reassure you that the commission will provide information and guidance for their benefit. the regulation has been in force and applicable since 1 january 2021 and is enforceable from that date. all relevant breaches affecting the sound financial management of the union budget and the financial interests of the union after that date will be covered. no case will be lost. the new mechanism complements a whole range of existing procedures to protect the union’s budget, including the european anti-fraud office (olaf) and, hopefully soon, investigations by the european prosecution office (epo). those procedures will be used if they are more effective with regard to protecting the union’s budget. should the conditions for applying the mechanism be fulfilled, the commission will open proceedings. the commission is currently preparing guidelines for the application of the regulation. at the same time, the commission is actively assessing information from sources cited in the regulation to identify possible breaches of the principles of the rule of law that would be relevant under the new regulation. when concerns arise, discussions with member states will commence without undue delay. we want to get it right, with solid and predictable guidance. we want to establish fair, transparent and proportionate practicalities for this new mechanism. to exercise our very strong ambition on the rule of law mechanism, our approach needs to be watertight. should the validity of the regulation be challenged before the court of justice – by the way, there is time to do so, until 15 march – the guidelines will take into account the court’s judgement insofar as relevant. taking into account the european council conclusions of december 2020 and its own declaration, the commission does not expect to propose measures under the regulation before adopting these guidelines. parliament will be an important partner in the implementation of the rule of law conditionality regulation. first, the commission will inform parliament each time it initiates the procedure, as well as on any appropriate measures proposed, adopted or lifted by the council. second, parliament has the possibility to invite the commission to a formal structured dialogue once the commission has initiated the procedure. on the application and effectiveness of the regulation as a whole, the commission will report to parliament by january 2024. as we develop this new instrument, the more established parts of our toolbox remain in action. the commission continues to operate its early detection and exclusion system, it continues to assess the internal control systems of the member states, it audits expenditure and operates financial corrections where applicable, and it protects the final interests of the union, as established by the regulation establishing the recovery and resilience facility. the commission is strongly committed to continue using its entire arsenal and to make sure that every euro from eu taxpayers goes where it is really needed. if you will allow a very personal comment, i’m in my third mandate here and, since 2010, when i took office within the commission, we have been discussing exactly this subject because the barroso ii commission started with the new lisbon treaty and we very soon detected that article 7 was not sufficient enough. i remember very well that my then colleague, ms reding, was looking at measures which could accompany this article 7 possibility. finally, in 2018, we as a commission took the decision to propose a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for the current period, which included, for the first time, such a regulation. i want to reassure you that i am very much committed to this after all the history i have witnessed on a very personal note. but we have to do it in such a way that we are not challenged successfully with the first case at the court of justice. we have to do it in such a way that finally we are altogether successful and this instrument turns out to be a successful and, may i say, visible and relevant tool in order to pursue the rule of law, not only in spirit but in behaviour.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like to thank especially commissioner hahn for his commitment and devotion to this issue of great importance. as we know, parliament has set out its position on application of the rule of law conditionality regulation already in the plenary resolution in december 2020. first of all, we want to make clear that the council conclusions are legally superfluous and the european parliament, as a co-legislator, asserts the primacy of the regulation. this is entirely consistent with the case law. the applicability of this regulation cannot be subject to adoption of any guidelines, as the text agreed is sufficiently clear. second, we expect the commission, as the guardian of the treaties, to ensure that the regulation is fully applicable from the date agreed, as you said commissioner hahn – 1 january – and we will use all tools at our disposal to make sure this happens. and third, parliament will vigorously defend the validity of the regulation and will request an expedited procedure in the european court of justice. we know, by the way, that several member states will stand behind us in this process. however, we will contribute to the drafting of the guidelines to ensure that they respect the will of the co—legislators. all in all, i do believe that the commission is our ally in our common fight for stronger rule of law in europe.
we are aware that only two and a half months have passed since the mechanism which makes european funds conditional on respect for the rule of law came into force. but there is obviously a lot of expectation, because it is one of the most important and most awaited regulations of this mandate and, moreover, because we all know how difficult it was to build an agreement acceptable to all parties. that's why we're having this debate today. as mr sarvamaa said, parliament does not consider these guidelines necessary, but the european commission has undertaken to present them and we therefore want to know what is going to be in these guidelines in particular, especially because we want to be sure that in no case will these guidelines change or interpret the agreement we have reached between the institutions. they have to be absolutely in line with what we've negotiated. we also want to know how the european commission is working on the development and implementation of the regulation in general, not just on these guidelines; also how is the launch of the portal going with which we are going to communicate or with which the commission is going to communicate with the final beneficiaries or to communicate any other information that the commission considers relevant for its implementation. we want all this information, not only because it is our duty to monitor the commission, but because we as legislators want to be sure - and you said that at the end of your speech, commissioner - that the regulation we have made is going to be an effective and applicable regulation. so i hope in your reply you can give us this additional information.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, i will be very direct. we have asked for these debates because we are confident that this regulation, which we have negotiated together, parliament, the council and the commission, is a regulation which can be good. but it will only be good if it is applied. now that the decision has been taken, this regulation and mechanism must be applied as from 1 january this year. we have waited too long for the court of justice to resolve the problem of respect for the rule of law in the european union or for the court of justice to protect the european budget from autocratic lapses or from those who think that the european union is only a money-maker. for us, the main thing now is that the commission starts applying this regulation, starts analysing the cases - we know that there are already cases in several member states - analyses these cases and shows that this legislation is effective because it is applied. if this is not the case, then parliament will use all the means at its disposal to ensure that european legislation is respected and that the european commission, as provided for in the treaty, applies these regulations. we understand that guidelines may be useful, that some clarifications may be useful, but the legislation, as far as i know, applies as decided by the legislator and that is what we expect from the european commission. without waiting, without delay and beyond what the council can say or suggest to the commission. the commission is independent and must claim it. parliament is there to ensure that this regulation is applied, because only then will we gain credibility. for too long, when we spoke of the rule of law, we considered or some politicians considered that they were personally attacked or some member states felt that they were directly attacked. with this mechanism, we now have the opportunity to show that the rule of law and european values apply to everyone, to all member states, without political discrimination. only then will these values have credibility. that is why we have called for this debate and will be putting forward a resolution, to make it clear that the european parliament has asked for this mechanism, that it has obtained it and that it will ensure that this mechanism is applied, because only once it is applied can we judge its effectiveness.
in writing. – this parliament has been pushing for years for a mechanism that would condition european funds on respect for our common european values. the agreement reached with the council on regulation (eu, euratom) 2020/2092 on a general regime of conditionality for the protection of union’s budget, back in november 2020, was therefore a historic step towards defending the rule of law in europe. however, the european council conclusions from december 2020 introduced additional conditions for the application of this text, following the seemingly rather effective blackmail of those same member states that have been trampling the rule of law for years. we must be very clear, we will not accept any attempts to delay the application of this vital piece of legislation, nor will we tolerate any watering down of the negotiated and agreed provisions of the regulation. from 1 january 2021, it is a matter of legal obligation for the european commission to apply regulation (eu, euratom) 2020/2092. no backroom deal can change that and the european parliament will use all the legal tools available to make sure the text is applied. we can no longer tolerate that oligarchs who utterly disregard our values continue to profit from eu funds.
madam president, as a co-rapporteur on the file, together with my colleagues, i have defended from parliament’s side the principle of consultation with stakeholders: local and regional authorities, social partners, entrepreneurs, civil society, youth organisations and many others. thanks to the european parliament, with the support of the european commission, we now have a mandatory provision in the recovery and resilicience facility (rrf) regulation for member states to run such consultations. i actually organised consultations through the ep offices in no less than 13 member states even before the debate on the rrf file, and i can testify how rich, useful and rewarding that dialogue was in documenting and reinforcing the arguments for the best possible rrf. the consultations are not just a source of legitimacy, a natural alignment with our democratic values, an expression of a citizen-centred approach to european policy that is so dear for our group in europe, but more importantly, the consultation with stakeholders, including local authorities, are critical for the quality of both the design and the implementation of national plans. i am really glad to see that my constituency in romania recently had consultations attended by more than 4 000 stakeholders, and we have decided to create a local resilience fund for local authorities as part of the national plan for recovery and resilience. i also support strongly the appeal for not transforming national plans into political battlefields. this is not what the european citizens expect from us. the european commission was our ally on these matters during the negotiations. we ask you to be our partner again and use your power to require national governments to fulfil their obligations. this is how we truly renew europe.
mr president, commissioner, rural areas cover almost half of europe's territory and agriculture plays a crucial role in making these areas live. it is therefore essential to keep our farming and processing activities at the heart of our regions. they bring wealth, create jobs and give life to our territories, their schools and their businesses. this future initiative will have to take account of the need to support our agriculture in the face of climate change, globalisation and health crises. i would like to remind you that the common agricultural policy cannot be the only instrument to support the economic, social and sustainable development of our rural areas. other issues, other than agriculture, require additional funding. the physical and digital decentralization of these areas is a major challenge and the erdf must also play its full role in enabling the territories to seize the opportunities linked to the green and digital pact. crossborder cooperation also has a role to play here, through the interreg programme, which makes it possible to strengthen employment pools that are a source of dynamism for these territories. so it is a real synergy that must be acted upon to enable these rural areas to meet the challenges of tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you for answering our request for a debate. i would like to emphasize in the short time i have only two aspects which i consider important and which i believe should be central to the vision for rural areas which the commission intends to present. firstly, i believe that the regional authorities should be the main interlocutors because they are naturally the closest to rural areas and have detailed knowledge of them in the light of the many differences that make them up. it is an element which we have also stressed in the new cap we are working on, as the commissioner knows very well. the second aspect which i find fundamental is the digital divide, commissioner, particularly for mountain areas where this gap is often more pronounced. the vision should aim to reduce this gap in the shortest possible time, to not only make rural areas attractive for work and thus re-launch them demographically, but also to support the shift to a green agricultural economy, which is so dependent on modern technological development. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. president, can you imagine an area of 56 million acres? i'll give you a little help, it's 18 times the area of belgium. this vast expanse of europe is in danger of becoming a no man's land. this is according to a study on the risk of abandonment of agricultural land in the european union. the strategy for the future of rural areas must therefore urgently address how we got here and then act firmly and urgently. the ambitions of the new cap and the green deal are very high. they could theoretically bring back rural prosperity, but they lack a stronger focus on convergence to become a reality. the gaps are simply too deep and too old. that's why rural areas are in danger of becoming history in some states. this convergence means not just subsidies, although they differ wildly from state to state, but equal access to education and health care with urban areas, equal funding and income between women and men in agriculture, and the elimination of the double standard, which is still an insufficiently debated topic here. rural revitalization is not a fad. we'll all see this when farmland is abandoned and our food is unaffordable for many.
mr president, as someone from a rural area, i’m delighted that we’re having this important discussion here today. there are the four key points that i just wish to raise. the first one is in relation to remote working. for many generations, people have left rural areas to pursue jobs and opportunities further afield. covid–19 has taught us that we can all work from home, and it provides an opportunity for these people to remain in their communities, and turn that brain drain that we’ve seen for many, many years into a brain gain. we need broadband and we need remote work in homes, and other digital technology that can allow this happen. secondly, in relation to revitalising our towns and villages; there are so many derelict buildings in the centre of our towns. through a refit programme we could regenerate these buildings and breathe life back into urban town centres, which would be critical and make such an enormous difference to our towns. thirdly, in relation to the digital and green economy, climate change has proven to us that there are many opportunities in the industry sector: renewable energies, for instance, circular economy. these are great opportunities that would have a massive multiplier effect in the rural economy, and would allow us to breathe life again back into rural economies. finally, i wouldn’t like us to forget that we need to ensure that we have a strong and effective cap for the agri-sector, as the agri-sector is a cornerstone of rural areas and needs to be protected. the current crisis has shown us that we can reset the clock and seize the opportunity to reinvigorate and regenerate the rural europe.
mr president, commissioner, the countryside needs a long-term vision, otherwise we will not stop the young people leaving the countryside. we are now allocating a lot of money under the recovery and resilience plan of the multiannual financial framework and therefore we must first ensure that we have enough money to have a quality agriculture that will ensure the income position of farmers and enable young people to stay on farms and also to develop a number of agricultural industries. but farming is not enough. we must also ensure good conditions for the development of tourism, the development of the micro-economy, the bio-economy, the development of green jobs in the energy sector, the development of concepts of care for the elderly in rural areas, the development of tourism. and we do all of this within the smart village concept, which i've been developing for quite some time. so we need a clear strategy, we need resources, because otherwise we're not going to stop the very natural trend of centralization that's going on. but the task is as much for the municipalities, the states, as for us here in the european parliament.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! i would like to thank the members for all the comments and i would like to assure them that we will take them very seriously when we finalise this rural development vision which we intend to present in june, in a few months' time, in the near future. of course, given the short time limit, i will not go into detail on the individual remarks, but your votes were in line with the commission's thinking on rural areas. indeed, in the past, so little was done that rural areas were treated as an adjunct to cities. this thinking was recognised, and we could observe that because there is a common agricultural policy, it is already rural, rural areas get funding, and these other funds should be allocated to urban areas in particular. and hence the problem with article 174, which says very clearly that rural areas should be given priority in cohesion policy. it lists rural areas, industrial areas and areas with difficult natural conditions as priority areas. in practice, i have already spoken about how the 2013 regulation had entire chapters devoted to urban areas and only a trace of mention of rural areas. it changes. i can tell you that we're looking at a breakthrough. the commission's approach, as set out by president von der leyen, is to ensure that rural areas are fully integrated into all eu policies. and this is very much reflected in what we have recommended to the member states in the recovery plans for their recovery plans, and it is already reflected in what we are receiving the first member states' projects which actually provide for a significant part of the funds to be allocated to rural areas. these are investments in digitization, but these are also investments in rural infrastructure, in rural health care, but also some directly related to agriculture. you spoke here about the role of agriculture. it is no secret to me that farmers are not the only people who live in rural areas, farmers are the minority of the population in these areas, of course they are. and this is the reason why agricultural policy cannot be the only policy for rural areas, that other policies must be actively involved, precisely because farmers are the rural minority. but agriculture must be a major part of it. we have to stop the rural depopulation. and for that to happen, we must first of all also stop the disappearance of small and mediumsized farms. the farm-to-table strategy, what we're proposing with green architecture, the development of organic farms, the development of short supply chains, is a great proposition for small and medium-sized farms. that's a wonderful offer. they can thus find a field of activity for themselves, a place in competition which they cannot sustain in such a normal competitive race. a farmer who has 50 pigs is not able to compete today with one who has 5,000, and he has to close his business. if we can give it the ability to operate in an eco-friendly formula, in short supply chains, this could be a great place to operate in the market. and this will be very important for the vitality of rural areas. so we are definitely moving in that direction and i want to emphasise again that in all the adopted documents of a strategic nature, rural areas are indicated as an important part. the commission is working hard to ensure that no one can claim that there is only one common agricultural policy for rural areas. no, all policies must actively support rural areas, help them to develop and to maintain their vitality, and the main objective of the commission - which we want to stress very strongly in this future vision - is to ensure that the living conditions of people in rural areas are brought as close as possible to those in urban areas. only by consistently supporting such rural development can we ensure the viability of rural areas and prevent their depopulation. ensure that they are an integral part of the developed european union in 2040, because that is the perspective of our long-term vision for rural development. once again, i thank you all for your very valuable votes, and of course, they will be taken into account in the final drafting of our vision.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. rural areas are home to nearly 100 million european citizens and cover almost half of the european union's territory. we owe to rural areas not only our food security but also the care of the land, natural resources and the preservation of our rich cultural and historical heritage. at the same time, rural, more remote and mountain areas face increasing challenges related to depopulation and ageing populations, limited access to services and digital connectivity, low income levels. the covid-19 pandemic has further exacerbated these trends and increased the risk of poverty and social exclusion, especially among the older population. i welcome the commission's initiative to develop a long-term vision for rural areas, their future and the role they should play in society. rural areas have the potential to become leaders in the transition to a low-carbon and digital economy, but this goes hand in hand with the creation of the necessary conditions such as appropriate physical, social and digital infrastructure, as well as investments in knowledge and skills. the development of rural areas and the local economy in line with new realities cannot be achieved by the cap alone. to this end, a coordinated approach to rural areas across all relevant european policies and instruments is needed.
in writing. rural areas often face challenges such as depopulation, remoteness, lack of jobs, low incomes, lack of internet and limited infrastructure and services. there is a risk that in the next 10 years, 5 million hectares of land in the eu will be abandoned and villages will remain deserted. support for the rural environment under the common agricultural policy (cap) is an important instrument, but it is not enough. the future vision for the future of rural areas must mobilise all european funding instruments to create the conditions for young people to stay and return to the countryside and to develop the rural economy and tourism so that villages can once again become 'an attractive place to live'. how will the commission ensure synergy between the future cap and other policies that can support the rural environment? how will it encourage the active involvement of local authorities in the new strategy? the agri-food sector can support local communities to create a greener, more efficient and fairer local economy for farmers, but also strengthen social cohesion and jobs. how does the commission intend to develop local production and short supply chains that can provide food for local communities? in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that the funds available for the conservation and rehabilitation of the european village are insufficient.
in writing. – we need a solid and comprehensive vision on the future of the eu’s rural areas, one which is deeply correlated with the new common agricultural policy currently under negotiation. it is time that through its new priorities the cap focuses on family and community farming, rather than on financing large landowners. the small family farms boost the economies of our rural regions and keep our countryside and rural communities alive. no less importantly, they are the most capable to produce high-quality food in sustainable way. the prospering of our rural communities also has a direct impact on the survival of europe’s cultural heritage, including the cultures and languages of europe’s autochthonous national minorities, who live predominantly in rural areas. it is therefore vital that the eu through the new cap ensures a good standard of living for the agricultural community but also that it invests into rural development, schools and infrastructure, as well. this is the vision i expect the commission to embrace.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i can only share my dismay at the result of your review: 10% blocked at registration, 10% at payment and 50% blocked by the refusal to deliver cross—border. i personally continue to find it outrageous that multinationals are refusing to deliver, often the same product from the same warehouse, depending on whether a consumer is using one version of a website or another. this artificial national market segmentation must stop. as for copyright—protected content, we can only truly end geo-blocking if this is included. i firmly believe that the regulation should be extended to copyright—protected content. mr commissioner, we are not all treated as equals. it is not right that a german viewer has access to 43% of all audiovisual content, while a greek has access to only 1%. there is something very wrong with the audiovisual industry and the way we allow it to work. if the industry will not urgently agree to voluntarily lift these barriers, it’s time for us to do so in law. i hope the commission will make this clear and be prepared to act before this term is up.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: geo-blocking remains one of the biggest barriers to the development of the single market. the commission notes that the 2018 regulation does not provide for a derogation from the principle of proportionality. the last few months and the coronavirus pandemic have brought our activity, including shopping, even more online. this opens up new opportunities for many small and medium-sized businesses to reach customers in other countries with their offer, and it creates new opportunities for consumers to seek out favourable offers. the conditions for building a digital single market are hard to beat. effectively removing barriers to cross-border access to services and goods should be one of the key elements of our recovery strategy. we all expect the commission to be more effective in removing the red tape that hinders e-commerce.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, under the 2018 geo-blocking regulation, online shops and services are obliged to offer the same services at the same price to all european consumers. to date, this regulation does not apply to audiovisual services or to services providing access to copyrighted works, such as digital books, music, video games and films. but i hear that this list of exemptions needs to be reviewed, so i would like to speak to you about the book sector because such an extension to the book sector would endanger bookshops, publishing houses and would further strengthen the quasi-monopoly position of players like amazon. in addition, it would make it impossible to apply the law on the single price of books, which exists in countries such as france: this is a measure that has made it possible to maintain a significant editorial plurality of distribution. it would be the same for music or for films and that is why i think we need to continue to protect copyright to preserve cultural diversity and support creators. let's not sell culture to the big digital platforms.
mr president, manufacturers and producers in general try to make a profit. sometime they revert to geo—blocking, the segmentation of markets. this is not only to increase profits but also to protect intellectual property or to produce consumer goods of less quality at a lower price for consumers with less money to spend. i wonder if the regulation on banning geo—blocking is not a fine example of the useless regulation of the eu market. why? it is unclear if geo—blocking is really a problem. consumers and producers in different member states tell me it is a non—issue as in a market that is characterised by over—capacity, the buyers and not the suppliers have the upper hand. geo—blocking can be, and often is, a good thing. let us not spend more energy on this non—issue with no priority.
mr president, it is impossible to talk about geographical blockage without mentioning the current context. the european audiovisual sector is now being greatly impacted by the arrival of new online platforms broadcasting content from third countries, which are receiving significant financial support that has no equivalent in europe. the pandemic has put these sectors at even greater risk. we are talking about thousands of professionals, authors and producers who work every day for european creativity. what we need is first of all rapid and effective implementation of the regulation in all member states and then incentive measures to facilitate cross-border trade, improve production capacity, support cross-border co-productions with european funding and meet consumer expectations. in the light of these priorities, we need to discuss with all stakeholders what has worked, what obstacles still exist and whether they are really justified. i welcome the commission's action in this dialogue and above all, ladies and gentlemen, let us be pragmatic.
mr president, when we speak about geo—blocking and territorial supply constraints, we must not forget that smaller member states are much more vulnerable. taking my country, luxembourg, as an example, consumers are too often penalised when ordering abroad because many online vendors do not deliver to the grand duchy. at the same time, luxembourg companies are often obliged to go through specific distributors for their supplies, incurring greater costs. i welcome the commission’s first short—term review of the geo—blocking regulation, but i also call on the commission to continue actively monitoring and removing unjustified geo—blocking and other restrictions on cross—border online sales. i know that further evaluation of the regulation is expected, and i’m convinced that the commission should consider appropriate measures, concrete actions, among others, for full implementation by member states, for better enforcement in every member state, for better cooperation among the competent authorities and for non—discriminatory customer access to offers in the single market.
mr president, we are talking about digitalisation and the european single market, which is one of the european union’s greatest strengths. our strong position in the international market comes from the capacity to provide a broad market with laws as harmonised as possible with around 450 million consumers. that is why it is particularly important to remove the practice of geo—blocking as soon as possible. we want the same service and the same access to the single market for all europeans. limiting access not only limits the market, but also the rights that we europeans have as consumers. the geo—blocking of services and products offered on the online market must stop and the obstacles, even those coming from cross-border deliveries, must be removed. open cooperation with all member states is the only solution to reach the single market that we want and to ensure the rights that all consumers should have, no matter the geographical area they are located in.
in writing. – i understand the concerns of several tourist-destination member states that want to save the busy summer season which is so important for their economies that already have suffered so much in the last year, because of the unprecedented covid crisis. this ec digital green certificate proposal aims to facilitate free circulation among the eu single market in the months ahead, it will be available, free of charge, in digital or paper format, with a qr code to ensure security and authenticity of the certificate. still, while supporting the intention of this proposal, i want to stress that the certificate must not become another source of discrimination between eu member states and its european citizens. every one of the european citizens should first receive the possibility to be vaccinated and that’s why the eu should increase the vaccination campaign and make sure that all the necessary doses of vaccines are delivered to all member states. reaching the 70% vaccination target by summer will be our ticket to travel back to normality.
the digital green certificate is an instrument to guarantee swift reopening of economies and ease european citizens’ movement. it is not in any way an instrument to condition or discriminate as it includes all possible alternatives available – vaccination, testing or proof of overcoming the infection with the new coronavirus. moreover, let us once and for all make it clear that no personal data of european citizens are to be at risk while using the digital green certificate, on the contrary – it is an instrument meant to protect europeans from such breaches from public or private operators, while offering a quick & easy solution for safe travel. transport and tourism are sectors with important losses due to covid-19 restrictions in all member states. we need this digital green certificate to help us all overcome disastrous effects of over one-year partially or fully closed doors. the key to an efficient implementation is predictability and unity as to procedures and structures in order to offer european citizens the means to move freely while being 100% protected. i strongly support the digital green certificate and the need for urgent implementation of this unitary instrument to help us all return to our lives before the pandemic.
in writing. the covid e-verify is the tool that will allow european citizens who can prove that they are at low epidemiological risk to travel without restrictions starting this summer. specifically, the truth will be available free of charge to those who have been vaccinated, to those who have a negative covid test, and to those who can prove they have antibodies. it is essential to explain as clearly as possible that this authentication does not affect the rights of europeans, including the right to free movement, but is a purely administrative act attesting to a low risk of contamination, allowing member states to no longer impose quarantine or isolation measures if they are not necessary. but truthfulness does not grant an additional right to those who can or choose to possess it. also, this truth does not impose in any way the mandatory vaccination, as it is said in some fake news. we need this truth approved and implemented as soon as possible. i hope that once vaccination increases the general immunity of the population, this will allow member states to remove all restrictions on free movement, at which point the truth will become superfluous and we can return to normal.
in writing. green electronic certificates, proposed by the european commission, will act as proof of vaccination, a negative test or a covid-19 antibody test, with the aim of facilitating freedom of movement within the european union. one of the important elements of introducing the checks is the interconnection of databases, which will lead to the avoidance of false test certificates, which are a real problem. in order to take advantage of a centralised eu database accessible to all member states, i argue that clear rules on the collection, processing and provision of access to such data should be defined. however, the proposal for a regulation states that the responsibility for interconnection lies with the member states, which may lead to differences between countries. they also draw attention to risks, namely that citizens from outside the schengen area are subject to additional checks. green e-cards should not restrict freedom of movement at european level but should also help tourism. these certificates should remain a facility and not become an obligation.
in writing. – serious doubts arise that by the summer eu countries will manage to coordinate the reopening of their borders. an eu digital green certificate appears like an appropriate solution at exceptional times, adapted to give a boost to freedom of movement, a fundamental right deeply damaged over the past pandemic year and a boost to devastated economic sectors like tourism, horeca. on the short to medium term, the creation of such certificate could ensure a more vigorous economic recovery; it would help citizens who built their lives by crossing borders to reunite with their loved ones. there is indeed a sense of urgency to resume travelling in a safe way as countries as speeding up their vaccination plans. nevertheless, this has to be done under certain conditions to be non-discriminatory and to safeguard free movement on the longer term. it would be granted with proof of vaccination, a negative covid-19 test, or proof of recovery from the virus, which i think is a balanced answer. one should ensure that this certificate will not be misused in the future by non-state actors. it should finally serve as a pandemic quick fix and return to pre-covid freedom of travel should be prioritised.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic has prevented european citizens and third-country nationals residing in the territory of a member state from exercising their right to free movement. to mitigate these consequences, the european union should adopt a common framework for a digital green certificate as part of the electronic healthcare of the member states. digital green citizenship would ensure unilateral access to information on vaccination, disease recovery or testing. this information would allow citizens to move freely again, as these medical records would be reliably verifiable in all member states.
in writing. i support the regulation on electronic green certificates, to speed up the process of restoring free and safe movement in the eu. i am looking at the need to unlock the economy and open up the movement of citizens in the summer. in order to avoid discrimination between those who have been vaccinated and those who have not, there will in fact be three travel certificates: for those who have been vaccinated, for those who have recently tested negative and for those who have recovered from covid-19. the three travel certificates shall be issued free of charge, in digital or paper format, in the official language of the issuing state and in english. i admit that it is not an ideal option, but it is better than having 27 different possible truths from one member state to another, and than having closed borders and unharmonised restrictions at european level. according to the current calendar, the green truth is due to come into effect in june. i therefore ask that the forthcoming parliament-council negotiations for the adoption of the regulation proposed by the commission be conducted under the urgency procedure, as the situation requires. but above all, this legislative effort must really achieve a concrete objective by accelerating the vaccination campaign!
in writing. the treaty of lisbon reiterated that the budget of the european union should be financed entirely from own resources. the granting of greater power to the european parliament on the system of own resources is a necessary step towards strengthening democracy at the level of the european institutions. the current system of own resources ensures a constant and predictable revenue which balances the eu budget. it is clear that the budget needs to be reliable in terms of both revenue and expenditure in order to be able to address current challenges but also to achieve tangible results in the long term. the own resources system must contribute to eu strategies and policies designed and implemented to address long-term challenges: such as large and persistent regional disparities, demographic change, rising income and wealth inequality, the risk of poverty, migration, unemployment, climate change and technology. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new own resource based on unrecycled plastic waste, in particular in the light of the new own resource for plastic waste, which will be introduced in january 2021. in this context, the own resources system must ensure a durable and resilient framework that fully respects the principle of balance.
in writing. the reform of the union budgetary system has become mandatory as a result of the economic crisis generated by the covid-19 pandemic. the introduction of new budgetary sources, as well as the simplification of the way of collection, was necessary to finance the 750 billion capital market borrowings provided for in the recovery facility, part of the next generation eu initiative, without jeopardising the other financial programmes and instruments established by the 2021-2027 multiannual budget. the three new sources of funding for the eu budget are: the common consolidated corporate tax base, the emissions trading scheme and the tax on plastic packaging waste that is not recycled. the three pieces of legislation being debated today are needed to lay down the technical provisions for how the new system will operate, including rules for implementation, calculation methods, control and inspection rules. a point that the european parliament has long insisted on and which is now included in the final text concerns the simplification of the way the vat contribution to the eu budget is calculated, implemented and controlled. the introduction of new sources of funding is mandatory given that the union economy is not only facing the effects of the health crisis, but also the ambitious standards imposed by the green deal, and must remain competitive.
in writing. large us digital companies currently pay less than half the tax rate of traditional european companies in the eu, with a tax rate of 9.5% compared to 23.2% for traditional companies, according to an oecd study. the commission notes that the tax rulings in the united kingdom and ireland are based on the same principles as the rulings in the united kingdom and ireland. ensuring that these companies pay taxes fairly in the countries where they operate is essential both to guarantee revenues to the eu's own resources system, but above all to ensure tax revenues to member states' budgets, which allow for the implementation of sound policies and reforms, which in turn benefits the eu as a whole by increasing economic stability and reducing socioeconomic development gaps between member states. i would like to welcome the announcement by the executive vice-president of the european commission, margrethe vestager, to come forward with a legislative proposal to ensure fair digital taxation in the eu and hereby express my support for the new proposal.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european agri-food system has shown its resilience and its importance in our lives during this pandemic. in times of uncertainty, it is necessary to maintain a high level of investment in european agriculture, because while the impact of the pandemic has already been partially overcome in some sectors, it will unfortunately continue for many more months in others. that is why the agriculture chapter in the european budget remains absolutely crucial. the cap, in particular, must continue to play its role in supporting farmers' incomes, without which - it is worth recalling this once again - we could not have quality food on our tables. and then we must ensure that there is sufficient funding to help our farms also towards the green transition, which has become the focus of all european policies. all this comes at a cost in terms of innovation and research and the european budget will have to be appropriately and sufficiently strengthened to respond to this priority.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the committee on culture and education has highlighted in its opinion the alarming situation of the cultural and creative sectors in the wake of the consequences of the covid-19 pandemic. i welcome the fact that the general guidelines for the 2022 budget recognise the seriousness of the situation for this sector, because there is still no light in the tunnel for those affected. theatres, concerts and other cultural activities are still prohibited in the member states. artists, musicians, solo artists, they feel their existence is threatened. they've been out of income for a year now. in the long run, this development is simply a disaster for our cultural ecosystem. the sector therefore needs support at all levels. at european level, more money is needed for the creative europe programme, but there must also be a clear commitment from the member states. they must keep the cultural and creative sectors in mind and allocate 2% of the total reconstruction budget to this sector. access to aid must not be hampered by bureaucratic obstacles.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. our discussion of the 2022 budget is not just about what we're going to spend that money on, but how we're going to spend it. remember that this is the second year of the multiannual financial perspective, and that also means that money will be needed to settle the 2014-2020 period. it is important that all the matters that are to be concluded and settled are indeed settled in 2022. secondly, it is also the second year of the rehabilitation fund, and that is important. i would like to remind you that during the negotiations between parliament and the council, with the active participation of the commission, we talked about the fact that some of the penalties that will be imposed will be used for the main policies of the european union. it is in 2022 that this mechanism is supposed to start working. i wanted to remind you of this because it will be extremely important for parliament to show that 2022 is the year in which we introduce the new mechanism, the use of additional sources of funding that come from outside as a penalty. so: efficiency of spending, ability to predict spending and use of additional resources, such as penalties.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the european budget for next year is a key moment for the implementation of the multiannual financial framework (mff) and the recovery plan. this is why the s&d group in the european parliament calls for more ambition coming from the commission and the member states in the efforts to implement the multiple programmes and initiatives designed to manage a pandemic, and prepare for future challenges linked to the digital and green transformations. investing more in healthcare, education and social infrastructure, prioritising research and innovation, supporting our start-ups and smes, helping vulnerable groups and promoting gender equality should be an integral part of what we plan for the future of europe. we call for a citizen-centred eu budget that brings an added value across europe. we believe that the european pillar for social rights represents a central guiding line for what we want in terms of the relaunch of europe. the eu budget should therefore allocate proper resources and fully integrate the results of the porto social summit. through our amendments, we managed to promote a stronger social response to the crisis, coming up with detailed guidelines for what needs to happen in health, education, fighting unemployment, combating poverty, and supporting children and young people, promoting digital skills and the green transformation. we need an inclusive budget that leaves no one behind. the most affected sectors, like tourism and the hospitality sector, the cultural and creative sector, the education and the agricultural sector, should all be referred to with precise policies. we should deal with all the challenges existing at local but also at global level. therefore i am really happy to see that our amendment calling for romania, bulgaria and croatia to become part of the schengen area has been taken on board in the final report. all citizens should be at the centre of the mff and the recovery plan. this is why the european union should push for a stronger and better answer to the crisis by making sure that all member states have the capacity to make 2022 a full absorption year. cohesion in this regard is the key. we cannot repeat the mistakes made at the beginning of the previous mff. we need to increase transparency, but also reduce the bureaucracy surrounding eu funds. unfortunately, some governments – like in my own country, romania – are incapable of preparing a proper answer to the crisis using european funds, and this is where we need to intervene. the european parliament should be an active actor of this relaunch plan. we are ready to do our part and we should understand that we are in all of this together. it is essential for us to be proactive and respect our commitments in the mff. we reiterate our support for the european child guarantee, the european youth guarantee, the eu4health programme, the european social fund, the erasmus programme, creative europe, and other programmes. the pandemic has shown us that we also need a european health union at the same time. and of course we must also think about our responsibility at global level: our international partners need our help. we are the voice of eu citizens, and we should act as such in the negotiations with the council and the commission. let us work together in finding the best solutions for a social, green, digital and inclusive european budget.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ressler, and all the shadows from the other political groups. i think we worked well together. europe is at the crossroads: 2022 will be either a year of beating the pandemic or another one of living with its wounds. we have to be prepared for both scenarios because only a prepared europe is a respected europe. this year, we launched the rescue plan and the member states are working on their national recovery plans. lots of money will be available for the recovery and we have to build trust that money will be spent correctly. we have to build trust that the union can monitor how that money is spent. that is why it’s important to strengthen the rule of law in 2022, to strengthen the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo). the budget of the union reminds us of what unites us, and that is values. the rule-of-law mechanism and a functional eppo will show our commitment to these principles, to these values. this will show that we want money from the eu budget and the next generation eu to improve european lives and not end up in the pockets of some corrupt politician somewhere. it is an illusion to think, however, that we will prevail against the pandemic only by building and investing in the economy. germs do not take that into account. this is why we need a real and strong union of health. we need to invest in medical reserves in prevention, in fighting cancer. the pandemic has also shown us the ugly face of national borders. this is why we need schengen: there is no real union with border controls, with people, with cars, with trucks waiting in line, with various paperwork requests from one country to the other. therefore we invite the council to enlarge and strengthen the schengen area. this would help the ‘have nots’ relaunch their economies, but it would also benefit the ‘haves’ and the entire economy as a whole. commissioner, let’s step up to the challenge, but as the saying goes, you don’t get to pick what bad things happen to you. let’s be prepared for any type of things that come our way.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the pandemic that is striking us hard is exacerbating already large social and regional disparities; therefore, 2022 will also be a difficult year. that is why we need, and the european parliament is calling for, a stronger community budget with a stronger social agenda, a real pillar of social rights, with more money for children, young people, public health, the environmental transition, the digital transition. we must use every available resource, all the unallocated funds from the previous multiannual financial framework, the revenue from fines, new own resources to finally pay the internet giants, and these should be allocated to public health, investment, sustainable recovery. the european parliament is therefore calling on the commission, mr hahn, not to ally itself with the budgetary conservatives in the council but to demand more money for a bigger and better europe.
mr president, i would really like to congratulate my dear colleague, karlo ressler, and commissioner hahn on the excellent and hard work that has been done to ensure that the guidelines of this budget are in a human-centred, social and development-oriented context. this may be the most developmental budget we've had in years. i am one of those who always say that through the budget it is possible to give a lot to the many and not a lot to the few. i am among those who believe that, in addition to the large projects, this money should be given to small businesses and citizens: the european union's money must reach everywhere. we could finance the european student card from the budget in a difficult economic period; we could fund loans, scholarships for our young people, especially after brexit; we could fund the european disability card. there is no doubt that the european union has a humanitarian and solidarity role and is right to give money to refugees. but it is inconceivable that all these years, 46 years, there have been european refugees, my fellow greek cypriot refugees, who have not received a single euro from the european union. i shall be addressing you again, mr commissioner. why should there be such a distinction when they are refugees, and indeed europeans? why not receive a single euro? at the same time, we are proud to have voted for the link between the rule of law and the budget. the only country that does not have the rule of law, human rights, principles and values is turkey. we are funding a country that violates the rule of law, imprisons journalists, withdraws from the istanbul convention, violates principles and values, occupies a european union state. what else does turkey have to do to stop us from continuing this funding? i think the time has come, commissioner, because it is a challenge for european citizens that such countries continue to take european taxpayers' money. if you ask european citizens today whether turkey should be funded, they will all answer, overwhelmingly, 'no'.
member of the commission. – mr president, many thanks to the members again for this fruitful and, i have to say, engaging exchange. let me assure you that parliament’s guidelines will be an important element for the preparation of the 2022 draft budget. the council has already adopted its guidelines on the 2022 budget. it was addressed in the economic and financial affairs council (ecofin) on 16 february, and the spring dialogue on 13 april will provide us with the opportunity to have a first, more detailed constructive debate. i am looking forward to this debate and working with you over the next month, and we will, as usual, act as a mediator between the positions of both budgetary authorities to help forge an agreement which is equally satisfactory to all parties and reflects the needs we will face next year. we are still in a situation where we have to work on a quick and sustainable recovery after this pandemic.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments to the ressler report will take place today, the final vote tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. only the second year of efforts to mitigate the economic damage caused by the coronavirus pandemic should be the subject of this parliamentary debate and the ep's report on the 2022 budget plans. instead, the text contains two intentions that reflect the ideological goals of the european left, disguised as a budget: one is the mandatory sharing and resettlement of illegal immigrants between member states on the basis of solidarity; the other is the subtle mechanism of the rule of law, which targets the countries of central and eastern europe, which they consider to be secondary. the ep has been demanding for months for a mechanism falsely called the rule of law. the european council of heads of state or government rejected the ep's position last december. within the council, the leading fighters in this struggle were the hungarian and polish governments. and in the case of the rule of law, you can see that a lot of left-wing politicians are working to divide the european union. they think that there are eu member states and citizens first and second. the whole mechanism of the rule of law is a weapon for them, and their target is the countries of central and eastern europe, which they consider to be secondary. and the politicians of the hungarian left are also helping to do this.
the rapporteur. madam president and colleagues, if the covid-19 pandemic has taught us anything, it is that europe needs to better protect the health of its europeans. and that the european institutions need to be aware of using all the tools possible to get involved in this public health. and what we're doing today is tackling the biggest environmental risk to human health in europe: air pollution. this air pollution causes 400 000 premature deaths a year - cardiovascular disease, lung disease, lung cancer - and it also affects the most vulnerable groups: children, the elderly, people with lower incomes, people with less purchasing power. because while air quality is intrinsically linked to public health, it is also permeated by inequality. and it's not just them. it also ends up affecting our ecosystems, biodiversity, plant health. that is why we in the european parliament are calling for ambitious policies to ensure clean air for european citizens. with this scrutiny we are making of the report on the implementation of the air quality directives, we want to send four messages as a parliament. first, to bring air quality standards in line with the world health organization's criteria, which is to bring them in line with science. why would you do that? because, while it is true that we have had legislation on air quality in europe since the 1980s, the current standards are between 15 and 20 years old. science has advanced during this time, and we're calling for an update that would cover other unregulated pollutants, like ultrafine particles, black carbon. secondly, to strengthen the monitoring network and, in particular, to monitor its representativeness. why would you do that? because we know that ambiguous criteria about the location of control stations and sampling points end up causing us to have reasonable doubts about whether these are really representative. thirdly, to have national air quality plans that are really effective and greater cooperation on good practice in this area. and fourthly, and equally important, we must have effective enforcement mechanisms. today we have 30 infringement procedures open in relation to our air quality directives in 20 different countries. this means that if some member states are systematically breaking existing legislation, we have to rethink our enforcement mechanisms against them. the report does not only do this. the report also calls for a comprehensive approach to the phenomenon: integrating air quality into all european union policies and legislation; calling for cooperation between all administrations involved, local, regional, european, member states; drawing lessons also from covid19. obviously, lockdowns are not a model for absolutely anything, but we've been able to see how the change in mobility also has an impact on air quality, and some lessons can be drawn. and one of the lessons that we're taking away is that we need to rethink our model of cities. a city more oriented to the health of its citizens, more oriented to pedestrians, that is able to lead, the transformation in the vehicle, to electrify it, with the necessary infrastructures, with accessible public transport, thinking about the bicycle, in those who walk, in the low emission zones that have proven to be an effective tool also to improve air quality and, in addition, try to extract from political opportunism the measures that are being taken, that are going in the right direction, with a logic of a principle of no reversal, if these measures are proving effective. finally, what we are doing with this report is also claiming the information. citizen information as the best tool for awareness, which is empowerment. the fact that citizens are more informed about air quality will also make them more demanding of their administrations about the need to improve these indicators, to use new technologies, technological applications in this regard. we are presenting this report on the eve of the presentation of the 'zero pollution' action plan by the european commission - a plan which we, this house, this european parliament - are hopeful about and of the possible revision, the future revision of the air quality directives which we are demanding next year, which we encourage to be ambitious and demanding. it is true that we have had a majority, which has not been very large, in the committee on the environment for the adoption of this report. i would like to thank all the groups, and especially the alternative rapporteurs who have given their support to this report, their work. because they've not only gotten it approved; what they've gotten with their work is to do it better, much better. i'd like to thank you especially. but i have to say that we are not the only ones who have approved it who support it. i have a list here: the european federation of allergy and airway disease patient associations, the european public health alliance, the european respiratory society or the standing committee of european doctors are all supporting this report. i would also like to take this opportunity to ask the people's party to think about tomorrow's vote as the governing party. i say this because it is incompatible to want to take political leadership in this house in the fight against cancer and then vote against improving air quality. or it's a great exercise in cynicism. have them think about it and reschedule for tomorrow. because, without a doubt, building health resilience starts with clean air, and that's what we need to do now. and let us hope that this report can contribute to that.
member of the commission. – madam president, i very much welcome the work of the european parliament on this report. this is an important building block in our efforts to deliver on the commitments made in the european green deal. for several decades now eu clean air policy has brought significant improvements to air quality in europe, with major benefits for citizens’ health, but we need to do more. air pollution still has a massive impact on our well-being, our environment and our whole economy. air pollution still brings some 400 000 premature deaths every year, as well as cardiovascular diseases, respiratory problems and cancer. and air pollution has recently been receiving attention as a factor which may facilitate the severity and prognosis of covid-19 infections. with a threat like this, of our own making, we have a collective moral imperative to act. this is why in the european green deal under the umbrella of a zero-pollution ambition for a non-toxic environment we are committed to strengthening the centrepiece of eu clean air policy: the eu’s ambient air quality directives. we will propose to revise the existing standards and align them more closely with the latest recommendations from the world health organisation. we will also propose to strengthen provisions on monitoring, modelling and air-quality plans to help local authorities. we are working towards presenting a legislative proposal to this effect in the second half of 2022. as always, the commission relies on the best available scientific recommendations. we expect the who to publish revised air-quality guidelines in the coming months that will allow us to conduct a full impact assessment of our policy options in line with better-regulation requirements. and of course, in the work ahead, we will truly consider the european parliament’s input. i look forward to continuing our constructive cooperation and to delivering clean air for all our citizens and their environment.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the tran opinion has chosen, for once, to put pragmatism before ideology because, you see, the pollution of the air we breathe is certainly a huge problem but, in the face of dozens of infringement procedures which have not led to any results whatsoever was mentioned by the rapporteur it is pointless to insist on the same path, increasing further the targets for reducing emissions which are already difficult to achieve in this context. it is wrong, then, to beat up businesses already burdened with taxes and bureaucracy and it is wrong to hit citizens who, for many reasons, cannot go to work by bicycle or scooter and cannot afford to buy expensive electric cars for which there are no charging stations in many parts of europe. you see, i live in the middle of the po valley, where unfortunately our beautiful alps make it difficult for the natural replenishment of the area. in territories like this, this is our view: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the regions of the community. only then will we really contribute to cleaner air.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. according to the world health organisation, air pollution is the biggest environmental health risk in europe. each year, it causes the premature death of nearly 400,000 people. i would like to thank my colleague, mr javi lópez, for a very good report which not only shows what the eu is doing today, but also where we need to go. the report emphasises several important aspects of air quality. strengthening the air quality monitoring data network, improving air quality information, streamlining air quality plans and ensuring the effective implementation of the current air quality directives are some examples. however, the report also contains proposals on how to reduce air pollution, for example through climate policy and more efficient and better transport. i am therefore, frankly, very surprised that the conservative groups, including the ppe, the largest group in this parliament, have tried to water down this report. the eu's limit values need to be updated to align them with the world health organisation's limit values and guidelines, but apparently the conservative group does not want that. i am shocked that people's health is not taken more seriously, and i call on the moderates, the christian democrats and our swedish colleagues in the ppe and ecr groups to vote against their group line in this case, on a matter which should not even be partisan but should only be about standing up for people's health. the european green deal promises action to reduce air pollution from the most polluting sectors and to address the related challenges of air pollution by adopting a zero-emission action plan, which is very good. the report we are voting on tonight sends strong signals to the commission that the european parliament takes the issue of air quality very seriously and wants to see stronger action to get cleaner air and protect the health of our citizens.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, in these times of prolonged covid, it is right to recall one thing: air pollution is the number one threat to our health heart disease, lung disease, cancer, diabetes, especially affecting vulnerable populations. as our rapporteur has pointed out, pollution is responsible for almost 450 000 deaths a year in europe, not to mention its devastating effects on the environment and biodiversity. while it is true that europeans breathe cleaner air than they did ten years ago, the legislative arsenal we have put in place has not yet been fully deployed. i am thinking first of the limit values for the four main pollutants established in 2008 for particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide, sulphur dioxide and ground-level ozone. road traffic, heating and industrial emissions are the main sources. it is clear that the member states are not playing the game: 31 infringement procedures are under way against 18 countries, including mine, a reality that the epp and ecr do not accept by rejecting alignment with the who recommendations on limit values for these pollutants. there are, however, at least three good reasons for voting in favour: because the limits set by the european union are much lower than the who recommendations; because who itself is reviewing them. and then because, whatever the outcome of our vote, the commission has said that it will review the air quality standards upwards, because that is a firm commitment of the green deal. on the other key points in the report, yes, we will eventually have to extend our legislative framework to other pollutants - mercury, ultrafine particles, ammonia too - and yes, of course, innovation is a key to change. renew also supports the epp's amendment 8, which calls for innovative solutions such as filtration systems, for example, and the renewal of car fleets or for public transport. in conclusion, madam president, there is no reason to divide us here on an environmental health issue which is the subject of consensus in the scientific community. the european citizens expect a clear answer from us: to do everything in our power to enable them to breathe cleaner air at last.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. air pollution is the greatest environmental health risk to people in europe. every year 400 000 europeans die prematurely as a result of poor air quality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. but europe's current clean air laws are too weak. for 16 years, the world health organization has recommended much stricter limits for particulate matter, sulfur dioxide, and other pollutants. the need for action, which is also confirmed by science, is therefore very great, and that is why our report is a great and important success. it aims to improve europe's air quality for the benefit of people it puts the right to clean air into practice. i find it all the more incomprehensible that the cdu/csu and the epp are opposing here in parliament to a clear signal to implement the recommendations of the world health organisation and thus to a better air quality in europe. this attitude of the christian democrats is in disregard of science, it is in disregard of the precautionary principle of the european treaties and, even worse, it is a health risk for the people of europe. but fortunately, this position is not a majority position. the majority of the environment committee, like the citizens of europe, want tough laws on clean air. this strong report on health protection, which we are voting on today, is also a success of civil society. we are sending a clear signal to the member states. european environmental legislation must be implemented consistently by the states. the european commission, mr commissioner, cannot continue to sit idly by with infringement proceedings for another ten years, but must make a credible contribution to the european legal community. so, ladies and gentlemen, let's get on with it. this report is a very important step forward for the health of the citizens of europe - now we must implement it swiftly and consistently.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, commissioner, air pollution has a brutal impact on health. it is associated with hundreds of thousands of premature deaths in the european union every year. despite positive measures taken in recent years, objective improvements in ambient air quality are not always achieved, particularly in urban centres. the approach of setting limit values for each pollutant appears appropriate to establish minimum air quality standards that protect the health of citizens, but the current directives have huge limitations, based on air quality standards that are 15 to 20 years old, weaker than the world health organisation guidelines and below what the available scientific evidence would recommend. it is necessary to revise these standards in line with the recommendations of the who and the resistance of the right to bring them into line is unacceptable. it is necessary to cover pollutants that are not yet regulated and have significant impacts on health, such as ultrafine particles, among others, while remembering that in many cases even the legislation in force is not yet complied with, which requires increased efforts, including in areas such as the strengthening of monitoring networks. air pollution is largely preventable. it ultimately depends on the objectives of the economic system in force. for example, the promotion of the use of high-quality, efficient and cheap public transport in large urban centres is an essential part of a sustainable mobility strategy and this in turn is an essential condition for an improvement in air quality, something which the european commission refuses to recognise, while unfortunately remaining a fearless defender of the individual transport paradigm.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as shadow rapporteur, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his cooperation and in particular for supporting me in highlighting the role of 5g infrastructure development in air quality monitoring. ladies and gentlemen, today we can confirm that we have expertise in air quality analysis, we have financial resources, and now we have an obligation to implement measures to improve air quality. improving air quality is a necessity and a collective responsibility requiring joint efforts at local, regional, national and european level. i therefore encourage member states and local authorities to use european funding mechanisms such as the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund to make air quality a priority in itself. and i also say, after 15 years, as a former mayor, that it's crucial that we invest in public transport and in measures to renew the fleet of public transport vehicles.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome the adoption of the new eu-africa strategy, but in light of the impact of covid-19, this pandemic risks widening inequalities in africa and increasing food insecurity. that's why post-pandemic recovery should be seen as an opportunity to rebuild a more resilient society. we need to focus on reshaping economic, trade and energy access. i insist on access to power. and human resource development should be at the heart of the strategy to ensure that no one is left behind, with education and jobs as priorities for poverty reduction and economic growth. last but not least, i would like to mention that it is vital that we ensure that we guarantee a fair political, social and economic environment in africa.
madam president, dear commissioner, i welcome the work on the digital future of europe, of which the strategy for data is an important piece, but not the only one. the digital markets act (dma) and digital services act (dsa), the digital decade, the data governance act, the upcoming ai legislation are all ambitious and ground—breaking proposals. it is in this context of setting up our digital future that we need to remember that everything we do should be for the benefit of all citizens. and in light of this, i have three points to make. first, our citizens need to benefit from the personal data that they generate. we need to go beyond the gdpr and data protection, we need to find ways to make personal data generate value, not just for a few global tech platforms but also directly for all citizens. so looking forward to the data act, i encourage the commission to reflect on such ways. second, our citizens and our businesses need a single market, they need data economies of scale in order to take advantage of all that the digital age has to offer. this is one area where we cannot afford fragmentation. we need to do more at the european level, including in the way we write laws and we need to make sure that our data strategy leads to more convergence and better data flows in europe. and third, in order to thrive, our citizens need additional protection against novel threats specific to the data economy. fake news and disinformation, which threaten the foundations of our democracies, and other forms of data—fuelled hybrid threats can only be countered if we leverage our geopolitical weight and our strategic partnerships to set the global rules on how data can and cannot be used.
mr president, commissioners, members, we are on a minefield today. the green travel certificate, whose introduction you have adopted today by emergency procedure, can become, without a broad debate, based on conclusive medical data and respect for personal data, a new dual-use product. in these circumstances, i can tell you that this is an attack on our fundamental rights, our freedoms and our european values. the most important right, obtained by all romanians, hard won by all romanians with romania's accession to the european union, was this very right to move freely, without restrictions on movement and without additional expenses, only on the basis of a document issued by romania. i want that right to be respected, and i ask you why is vaccination free and testing expensive? i propose once again that any dual-use product, including this green travel certificate, be subject to a wide-ranging debate, based on conclusive medical data, so that 'unity in diversity', the motto of the european union, means (the president interrupts the speaker)...
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, maria da graça carvalho said that science is our future. i'd like to say that she's our present too. science, innovation, education and culture are our guarantee to be able to face any new crisis similar to the one we have just experienced, or simply to have a better future. the question has been asked: do we need more? my answer is yes, and i would like to add another question: have we got the maximum of what we could get under these extremely difficult circumstances? my answer is also yes, and i am proud and grateful to the european parliament, but also to all the researchers, innovators, european universities who, for months, have spoken with one voice and never let go. without your support, we could not have achieved what we have today and i take this opportunity to thank you and to say that we will continue to support you, to create new synergies, for more innovation and even more positive effects. i would like to conclude with this, again emphasising the positive aspects of the adoption of the horizon europe programme and the european institute of innovation and technology. what we want with these programmes is not just that they benefit scientists and innovators, but that they benefit all our european citizens. horizon europe is the product of a three-year consultative process, precisely to ensure that europe can achieve this successfully, leaving no one behind, by successfully completing the dual transition from green to digital. this programme will also build on the successes of horizon 2020, but now the time has come to look to the future with innovative solutions to make european action more impactful and effective. i very much welcome your support for horizon europe and the eit. like you, i am convinced that the european institute of innovation and technology is a tool adapted to the needs of our innovators. it is important to work towards synergies in order to turn this magic word into something operational, something that each of our regions can feel positively. that is why i believe that this cooperation that we are already seeing emerging on the horizon between the european innovation council and the european institute of innovation and technology will be the basis for being able to build a more integrated and inclusive eu innovation ecosystem, for the benefit of the union's innovators. we must do everything we can to identify talented innovators and to support our talent with what they need - whether it's financial support, mentoring, networking or, simply, access to information. for the next seven years, i thank you for giving us once again this moment of sharing, this common vision we have for research and innovation in europe. we now want to invent new, practical solutions to protect our planet, but also to make our daily lives greener, while putting citizens at the heart of our action. we will therefore do everything we can to work towards a healthy diet, improve water and soil quality, develop medical research, fight cancer, develop the digital industry and support the union's technological sovereignty. to achieve this, we will need all of europe's potential and i am sure that with the horizon europe programme, with the european institute of innovation and technology, we have the levers, the levers of excellence to enable us to provide the necessary support to our researchers, our innovators, to help us achieve this by including every citizen, in every region, in every member state.
the debate is closed. the votes on the recommendation of ms nica and the reports of ms ehler, ms matias and ms carvalho will take place on tuesday, 27 april 2021. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the new horizon europe research and innovation framework programme is a research programme of major importance for the next period 2021-2027. it will support innovative businesses, help prepare for future epidemics and help industry with climate-friendly renewal and digitalisation. the programme shall provide funding through various calls to address global challenges such as climate change and support for research and innovation related to the current coronavirus pandemic. horizon europe will provide funding for digital research and activities to support digitalisation. it also supports innovative smes and the european research infrastructure. i am pleased that the new programme places a high priority on supporting science and research fellowships under pillar 1 (excellent science). marie skłodowska-curie actions provide opportunities for researchers to acquire new skills and knowledge through mobility and training. investing in science and innovation is essential for successful crisis management. i hope that many researchers, smes, scientific actors and institutions will also join the programme, as this is the only way we can be joint winners of this research framework programme in the period ahead.
in writing. the union's research programme, horizon europe, is the most important instrument for achieving the objectives of the green deal and the digitalisation strategy. the most ambitious environmental targets have been set without knowing how we're going to meet them, and all our hopes are in innovative technologies that we don't have yet. research and innovation are therefore essential to meet the environmental and digitalisation objectives, while maintaining the eu's competitiveness and generating new jobs. it is difficult to understand how, in this context, the budget of horizon europe is so much smaller than the expectations we have of this programme. although the commission initially proposed a budget of eur 100 billion and the ep requested an increase to eur 120 billion, following the interinstitutional negotiations we had to accept a budget of only eur 95 billion. however, i welcome the possibility accepted in the interinstitutional dialogue of transferring 5% of the structural funds to horizon europe, keeping the energy, climate and mobility research cluster in one and including paediatric cancer in the health cluster. i also believe that the ep's concrete involvement in the strategic planning process is a step forward.
in writing. the horizon europe research programme is crucial to overcoming the crisis. with a total of eur 95.5 billion, we want to enable investment in health, digital transformation and innovative smes. we are not only laying the foundations for new jobs but also investing in the future of europe as a research centre. we can also use these funds to fight cancer. i come from a region in austria called burgenland, where 18 people died in road accidents last year. in comparison, about 700 people a year lose their battle against cancer in the netherlands, despite the best medical care. in europe, there are 1.3 million. every extra euro we put together here into researching the disease and thus fighting it is well spent and saves lives. with horizon europe, we are taking another step towards supporting our european research and pooling our resources in the fight against cancer.
in writing. the horizon europe 2021-2027 research and innovation framework programme is divided into three main pillars: cutting-edge science, global challenges and the competitiveness of european industry, and an innovative europe. the framework programme also supports innovative smes and the european research infrastructure. the new framework programme is a step in the right direction and an improvement on the previous programme, although its total budget of 95.5 billion was a disappointment to us. we in the european parliament pushed for a 50% increase in the funding of the programme, which in the end resulted in an increase of some billions in the budget, but not nearly enough. as member states were not prepared to invest more in the research programme, it is now to be hoped that they will spend a significant part of the recovery package funding on r & d investments. only by investing in research and innovation can europe transform its industry, compete successfully and respond to the great global challenges facing humanity. these challenges include combating climate change, digitalisation and the covid-19 pandemic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. it is estimated that up to 100 000 new jobs in research and innovation could be created by the end of the programming period thanks to horizon europe. it is also estimated that for every euro invested in the research programme, eur 11 can be recovered in gross domestic product (gdp) terms. so the investment in research is indeed worthwhile!
in writing. the debate and final adoption of the programmes defining the reference framework and the implementation programmes for horizon europe and the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) is a key step in enabling the european union to deliver on its priorities for growth and sustainable development on a sound scientific and knowledge base. these investments are of particular importance in a context of recovery from the impact of the pandemic and of the affirmation of the union's strategic autonomy in a multilateral globalisation, where value chains have to be shared on the basis of production and sharing of knowledge, technologies and solutions. these programmes and investments should be supplemented by the integrated implementation of the european research and innovation strategy, the digital europe programme and the european space programme, also under discussion in this plenary session, as well as the research and innovation appropriations included in the national recovery and resilience programmes. the financial allocations to horizon europe of eur 95,517 billion and to the eit of eur 3 billion for the period 2021-2027 benefited from a boost achieved in the final negotiations by the european parliament.
the commission shall submit to the european parliament and to the council a report on the implementation of this decision by the end of the financial year.
the rapporteur. mr president, i have the honour today of presenting to you the outcome of the negotiations on the strengthening of the european civil protection mechanism. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. we must not forget that at the beginning of the pandemic it was the civil protection mechanism that saved europe's honour. in those difficult first weeks we were instrumental in repatriating over 80,000 european citizens. at the same time, it took the appropriate decisions at the beginning of march to create a pan-european medical stockpile under resceu, not only with masks, respirators and other protective equipment but also with the possibility of reinforcing this stockpile with vaccines and medicines. this reserve, first activated a year ago, has now been substantially reinforced by nine bases across europe and has provided aid to many european states in need. but the mechanism has not only helped to deal with the pandemic within europe, it has also acted as a tool of practical solidarity towards third countries, as was the case yesterday in india. but despite his significant contribution, the pandemic has also exposed his weaknesses. until a year ago, the mechanism was focused on responding to natural disasters such as fires and earthquakes. although we had foreseen the possibility of a health crisis, no one expected a global crisis like the one we are experiencing today. the pandemic has shown that we were not as prepared as we should have been. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is significant that last february president michel proposed to reduce the funding of the mechanism to 1 billion for the period 2021-2027. the crisis that followed proved how wrong that proposition was. for 2020 alone, the budget was 500 million. under the agreement we have reached, the mechanism will have at its disposal eur 3.1 billion, including eur 2 billion from the recovery fund, to make all the necessary investments and to deal effectively with the new needs that are being created. i am also grateful to parliament for its insistence that we have included in the decision the way in which we will give and spend this money, providing that 85% will go to preparedness, that is to say to the purchase of resources for resceu, 15% to response and 5% to prevention. as regards prevention in particular, apart from doubling the funds available compared with the previous period, we have imposed specific reforms to make the member states better prepared. we included hydrogeological instabilities caused by earthquakes or floods as one of the risks that the mechanism should deal with. we call on the european commission to draw up a common list of disasters with transboundary effects and thus oblige the member states to inform us of how they intend to deal with them. we have also succeeded in developing mapping data for the early mobilisation of forces, with particular emphasis on border areas and for risks beyond the control of a country, such as a river overflow or a forest fire. we have strengthened the knowledge network of the mechanism to take account of the need to protect cultural heritage in the response to natural disasters. we have succeeded, despite the council's objections, in maintaining the provision for the creation of pan-european resilience targets, i.e. what should remain operational in the event of a disaster, and we are obliging the member states to take them into account when drawing up national risk management plans, and the commission when drawing up european plans. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european investment bank is a very good one. in addition, with regard to forest fires, we have corrected an injustice which existed since the previous revision, providing that the purchase of firefighting aircraft and helicopters through resceu will now be financed at 100% of their value by the european union. finally, we have ensured the involvement of the european parliament in important decisions on budgetary management, thus enhancing transparency and accountability. in conclusion, i would like to thank from the bottom of my heart the shadow rapporteurs, the secretariat and our partners. with the help of everyone for months, we achieved this result. i would also like to thank commissioner lenarčič, who is unfortunately absent today, for his contribution and the portuguese presidency of the council for the flexibility it has shown and which has enabled us to reach this very important result. friends and colleagues, the pandemic has acted as a catalyst. our internal weaknesses have come to the fore again, as they did during the financial crisis some ten years ago. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and its role in the world economy is increasingly being recognized. to reverse the adverse scenarios, big decisions are needed. but the forces of self-indulgent conservation are standing in the way of the great leap forward that europe needs. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration. the only antidote to this difficult reality is the many firm steps that will forge our common future. i therefore urge you to support resceu as such a step towards the ultimate goal of the european project. an example of peace, prosperity and equality for all mankind.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, commissioner lenarčič unfortunately could not join today’s final debate on the commission’s proposal to strengthen the union civil protection mechanism, but he asked me to convey to you his apologies and to deliver a few remarks on his behalf, starting by thanking in particular the rapporteur, nikos androulakis, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for their strong support and contribution to swift conclusion of the negotiations. last year, at the start of the covid-19 pandemic, member states’ requests for assistance under the union civil protection mechanism went fully or partially unanswered. this painfully demonstrated the need to rethink and improve the response in the context of crises such as the current pandemic: namely, crises which simultaneously affect many or all member states. we are therefore grateful that, with the strong commitment of the european parliament, we could reach in a record time of only eight months a political agreement on the commission’s proposal to strengthen the european civil protection mechanism. with targeted adjustments to the existing legal framework and with the substantial budget increase, we will be better prepared and be more flexible to support member states in addressing not only the current pandemic, but also any future large-scale crisis. i wish to make three brief points on the key elements of the new legislation. first, we need to invest in the resilience of our societies, and for this it is essential to enhance disaster-risk management and planning, in particular for crises that cross borders and impact different sectors. as a new element of the legislation, the union disaster resilience goals will provide a strong evidence base to guide our prevention and preparedness measures and thus offer a more strategic approach. second, we need to be able to support member states with additional response capacities that in emergency situations could be directly procured by the commission. this includes additional eu capacities in the field of transport and logistics, which has proven to be a major bottleneck at the outset of the current covid-19 pandemic. to serve as an additional safety net, the commission is now also able to step in and directly procure other eu capacities if resources available at national level are not sufficient in times of overwhelming crisis. third, with the next generation european funding, the union civil protection mechanism will receive a significant budget increase, and budget implementation will become more flexible. this will allow us to continue to grow direct eu medical stockpiles and invest in other capacities to further increase our readiness to respond to the covid-19 pandemic. but the reinforced union civil protection mechanism also presents us with a great opportunity to strengthen our preparedness for future crises other than covid-19 by investing in reinforced capacities to deal with forest fires as well as chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear disasters, taking into account lessons learned and shortcomings identified through the current crisis. we will jointly continue to pursue the same main objective: to improve europe’s resilience by increasing our operational capacity to respond effectively to different types of large crises that i fear are unavoidable also in the future.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am wearing a mask today, although it is not mandatory, and i am wearing a mask here on the podium because unfortunately we are also in belgium in the midst of a terrible third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. i have just learned that the belgian authorities have asked germany to accept patients, and i think that is another warning to us all. we should all follow the rules and if possible not look for loopholes, but perhaps do a little more than is prescribed. i wear the mask, too, because it's kind of symbolic of the beginning of the pandemic, where we weren't well positioned. there have been many doctors and nurses in italy who have died because they did not have protective equipment, and that is why it is important to act more quickly and take more precautions here. the present proposal does that, and that alone would be reason enough to support it. there was a debate in my country: the countries said, but that is really our business. the proposal respects subsidiarity - and that is good too - but we have learned in recent years that this has not all gone well at regional and national level alone. we must fight together against challenges such as the pandemic, and this is what this proposal does, and that is why it has the full support of the epp group.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr androulakis, for his hard work and the strong outcome that he managed to achieve. i welcome that we have now reached an agreement on a strengthened mechanism on crisis management. the pandemic has illustrated, painfully for us all, that the eu needs to step up and make sure that our coordinating response to crises is better. i’m from sweden, where there was a time that these kinds of mechanisms were thought of as being redundant. then came the massive forest fires of 2018 and we witnessed with great appreciation the help from the european union. we benefited from member states with better preparation and equipment to deal with these kinds of disasters and we realised, once again, that we are stronger together. we never know what the next crisis will be but, unless we are better at tackling global heating, the risk of natural diseases increases every day that goes past. we need to prepare much better for events like forest fires, flooding and landslides. i now feel more secure with the preparedness that we have now achieved with this agreement.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, civil protection used to be the star programme of this crisis. you remember in the beginning we bought masks and ventilators; we managed to help a hospital in sofia with resources from frankfurt; we brought 90 000 people back home in europe. but memory is short. it fades just so quickly. although it has increased, the ucpm has now been relegated to just a simple union programme. member states have already forgotten what we did with this programme. but climate change continues to be the number one threat to humanity. just this week, time magazine published a very, very vocal picture of the world made out of matches. if only one match in one place goes on, the entire world is ablaze. i fee that we have the same problem in europe. can we say that a major forest fire this summer somewhere in europe is an isolated event? can we say that it won’t cross borders? can we guarantee that, on top of the current crisis, there won’t be another even bigger crisis to deal with? members of parliament, i feel today happy that we conclude this, but i feel that our work is not done, that this is not the end of our road. the us yesterday, for instance, announced a programme of usd 1 billion dollars in which they announced a new service of people volunteering to take care of these problems. i think there is no country in europe rich enough – and ms guteland very well reminded us of sweden – that can deal with it on their own, and there is no european that is far enough from the crisis that can deal with this on their own. a spaniard with their house burned means that my own house is burned. thank you very much. we have a long way ahead still.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament for its interest in this issue of soil protection and for the question put forward by the honourable members. as you rightly pointed out, honourable members, in your question, soil is the source of all life and it carries out a range of functions and services without which human life would not be possible. so it is important to be here today. soil provides nutrients that sustain plants for food and energy. it purifies most of the water on the earth, thereby supplying us with drinking water. it also regulates rainfall, prevents floods and acts as a buffer against pollutants. soil is critical in helping to reduce the pace of climate change and it is the largest store of carbon on land. much of the planet’s biodiversity resides in the soil. and yet, as you pointed out, soil is a fragile commodity that can easily erode. we are acutely aware that soil degradation continues to increase within the eu and that currently almost 13% of land in europe suffers from a moderate to high level of erosion. we have read attentively the main conclusions of the european environment agency’s 2020 state of the environment report and we have duly taken note of the warning it provides. unless member states reduce annual rates of land take and increase land recycling, the target zero net land take by 2050 is unlikely to be met. this is the reason why – and it is in the most recent conclusions on biodiversity adopted by the council last october – we express support for stepping up efforts to better protect soil and soil biodiversity. in its conclusions, the council reaffirmed its commitment to addressing desertification and land degradation in the eu and to reach land degradation neutrality by 2030. the council also reiterated its will to make progress towards the objective of zero net land take by 2050. it is also important to take this opportunity to recall that the recent agreement reached between the council and parliament on the life regulation foresees in its article 3 that the general objective of the life programme will be to contribute to the shift towards a sustainable economy with a view to protecting, restoring and improving the quality of the environment, including that of soil, to halt and reverse biodiversity loss and to tackle the degradation of ecosystems. in addition, similar attention is given to soil in the council’s mandate agreed on the 8th environment action programme. the council mandate establishes the pursuit of a zero pollution ambition for a toxin—free environment, including for air, water and soil, and the enhancement of european natural capital, notably air, water, soil and forests, as well as the fight against desertification and soil degradation. allow me to mention as well that the council remains fully committed to the fulfilment of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and, in this regard, let me emphasise sdg 15.3, which aims to combat desertification, restore degraded land and soil, including land affected by desertification, droughts and floods, and strives to achieve a land degradation neutral world by 2030. in view of the above, the council welcomes the planned update of the 2006 eu soil thematic strategy, which aims to address soil and land degradation within the eu in a comprehensive way, and we look forward to the adoption of this strategy by the commission. finally, let me reassure you that the presidency is fully committed and determined to work with parliament and the commission on soil protection once this updated strategy has been put forward. we will also work with you on any emerging initiatives that are proposed in this regard.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me first of all start by thanking you for your strong support for soil protection and for putting this very important matter on this week’s plenary agenda. i’m very happy to reply tonight on behalf of the commission to the main questions you raise in your oral question and to be able to bring you good news on how our work is advancing. as you know, our soil and the biodiversity it contains is a vast biological engine driving a multitude of processes that underpin our well-being and our survival. soil is one of the earth’s biggest carbon sinks and holds one quarter of terrestrial biodiversity. fertile soils provide us with healthy food, clean drinking water and potential medicines. but land and soil degradation is getting worse. it is estimated to now cost europeans around 38 billion per year. the commission has been advocating a common approach since many years and for joint action by the eu and its member states to reverse these trends. yet today, and although degradation advances relentlessly, the eu is still not equipped with a legal framework that would give the same protection to soil as to water, air, the marine environment and nature. in the context of the green deal, we have therefore decided to come back to the issue. when we look at soil legislation in the member states, the picture is uneven. in member states where pressures on soil are high, there are often fewer policy instruments to protect those soils. but strong measures pay dividends. member states with targets and strong legislation have made faster progress in managing soils contaminated by the industrial action of the past. today, very few member states have a comprehensive framework covering soil protection, restoration, sustainable use and monitoring, and the playing field is not level. the question of who pays for remediation varies considerably. in some member states, these costs are fully covered by the public sector. in others, up to 70% of soil remediation costs have to be paid by the private sector. this house has been calling for a new strategy, and in the coming months the commission will deliver. in line with what we announced in the european green deal and in the biodiversity strategy, the framework we will propose in autumn will give a renewed impetus to soil protection with tangible steps to strengthen existing protection and reduce threats. we are also working on a legislative proposal for binding nature restoration targets later on this year. this will help restore degraded ecosystems, including soil, and we are stepping up protection in a number of ways. as part of the farm-to-fork strategy, the commission will take additional actions to reduce by 2030 the overall risk and use of chemical pesticides by 50%, the use of more hazardous pesticides by 50%, and the sale of antimicrobials by 50%. we will also act to reduce nutrient losses by at least 50% while ensuring that there is no deterioration in soil fertility. the current legislation that addresses change in soil organic carbon, the land use, the land use change and forestry regulation is being reviewed, and proposals for related targets under the green deal and climate target plan are expected in the summer in the so-called ‘fit for 55’ package. finally, the zero pollution action plan for air, water and soil due in may will cover the issue of contaminated sites. progress will be monitored through the eu soil observatory, hosted by the joint research centre and by the eu copernicus earth observation and monitoring programme. honourable members, the importance of soil protection and political expectations to act are high. this is why the commission is convinced that common rules and a clearer policy framework are needed, as they will also help member states, regions and stakeholders to use the available eu funds more effectively. and let me close by stressing that these new initiatives for soil protection will, of course, take full account of the principle of subsidiarity. they will complement national actions and address policy gaps identified at eu level.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the last resolution this parliament voted on soil protection was in 2007 and since then we have seen a lack of political will on the part of the member states, which for 14 years have blocked any initiative aimed at a coordinated and harmonised approach to the protection of european soils. this inaction means, as we have said, ever greater diffuse soil pollution, risks of desertification, salinisation and erosion, pressure on our climate and our food, or a significant loss of biodiversity harmful to all. years wasted that make these trends difficult and sometimes impossible to reverse, while our scientific knowledge shows us that healthy soils are simply essential to the life of ecosystems. i therefore welcome the european commission's initiative to come forward with a strategy on soil protection. our report sets out strong policy lines from which the commission can draw inspiration and insists on the creation of a european legislative framework which, in my view, will have to take account of all the threats to soils today. and we hope this time the council realizes the common interest we have in protecting soils and if some people were not convinced, i'll just read part of the fao report, which is from 2018 and says: "soil pollution causes a chain reaction. it alters soil biodiversity, reduces soil organic matter and soil's ability to act as a filter. it pollutes the water stored in the soil and groundwater and causes an imbalance of nutrients in the soil . . . soil pollution has devastating effects on the environment and affects all forms of life, including human lives, by creating new cancers. in addition to the environmental impact, soil pollution also has a high economic cost due to reduced yields and crop quality. preventing soil pollution should be a top priority on a global scale. and to conclude: 'polluting soils is polluting our future'. we have lost fourteen years; we have no more time to wait.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: about 70 percent of our soils are in a bad state: sealing, desertification, erosion, over-fertilization, pesticide pollution and, and, and. our vital resource, the soil, must not be trampled on any more carelessly. soil is a finite resource. once the soil is damaged or destroyed, future generations will not see its restoration. we have european regulations for the protection of water and air, but unfortunately not for soil. it is just as important to our survival. that is why we need strong eu legislation, commissioner. the first attempt to do so has failed because of a blocking minority in the council for many years. what precious time was lost! now we don't have time. now we must act. it's five after twelve. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national experts to help the member states to develop their own national policies and to provide them with the necessary information. many members of the european parliament share this view. what else has to happen for this to stop? and to all those who want to prevent a uniform regulation: the consequences of destroyed soil do not stop at any national boundary. therefore, soil protection must be tackled on a european scale. it must also be fully incorporated into the european green deal legislation. no more national singles! that didn't get us anywhere, and it's been scientifically proven. so vote for this resolution, which provides a good basis!
mr president, i thank the commissioner for his comments and for commitment to prepare a strategy on this very important topic. protection of our soil, like air and water, we need to approach the protection of our soil to the same level, give it the same attention. healthy soils, as we all know, are essential in achieving the objectives of our european green deal: climate neutrality, biodiversity restoration, healthy and sustainable food systems, and a resilient soil environment. it’s actually imperative that we protect, sustainably manage, restore and preserve our soil to its capacity to fulfil the multiple roles that it has as a sink, a sieve, a filter, source of nutrients and a source of food. and i think data protection, data collection is going to be really important in this. data is probably more important than sentiment. we need a comprehensive monitoring system, an exchange of best practices on soil protection, and we need to engage in the challenges of technology, in communications that we do have that can hinder consistency and interoperability at eu level in this area. so i’m looking forward to working with my colleagues as we move forward in this area to protect another vital resource on our planet. that’s our soil.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's climate action plan is implemented. it has not yet been so widely spread in the public, so i'll say it again now. the way we use land was the most important change to the commission and council proposal. we have received the commission's commitment in the lulucf area that efforts will be stepped up and that we can expect to save 300 million tonnes of co2 - that is a 2% increase in the european climate target, and that should not be underestimated. we in the epp are counting on incentives for farmers and forestry workers to achieve these additional benefits. we also believe that many other points need to be regulated in the context of subsidiarity. so unlike water and air, we do not need european regulation in all areas, but only where there are transboundary effects, such as in the case of climate. i think the resolution has struck a good balance here. we shall not be supporting certain phrases in certain places, but in essence we agree with the resolution. thank you to pernille weiss and everyone who helped. i think we'll get a good result tomorrow.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members once again for their support in putting soil protection so high on their policy agenda. it is one of the most important environmental challenges of our times, and success is essential for us to achieve our objectives on climate, biodiversity and zero pollution. we will take the resolution which you will vote on tomorrow fully into account. soil is also the only environmental medium which so far is not covered by a comprehensive and coherent policy framework. this gap reduces the effectiveness of the existing incentives and measures and would limit europe’s ability to achieve future green deal objectives. so i’m therefore convinced that we need a holistic policy framework on soil. without it, soil and land degradation will continue to accelerate, further aggravating the climate and biodiversity crisis. the eu will risk failing to achieve its green deal targets on climate change, biodiversity and food security and safety. lastly, there will be no level playing field for eu economic operators that use the soil, which creates distortion in the common market. with a common framework, in full respect of subsidiarity and proportionality, we will be able to avoid those traps. the new framework should protect our soils and give legal certainty across the eu about what we mean by sustainable use of soil. this will be of crucial importance for the many economic operators that use soil. honourable members, let me now touch very briefly on a couple of concrete comments and questions that you have mentioned: first of all on funding and financial instruments. providing financial support for the sustainable use and restoration of soils is very important, and it would help soil users to embrace more sustainable practices that allow soil to perform all its key functions. eu funds to protect soil have existed for many years, including the common agricultural policy, life, horizon europe, cohesion policy and the recovery and resilience facility. the horizon europe mission on soil health and food will also earmark significant eu budget to raise awareness on the importance of soil, to improve the knowledge base and to develop research solutions for restoring soil health and functions. the overall approach for the funding of soil restoration and soil research will be explained in more detail in the upcoming soil strategy. on the common agricultural policy, it is clear that no soil protection regime could ever work without landowners on board. we need to jointly determine what we consider to be sustainable soil management in the eu to prevent further degradation, and their expertise is, of course, essential. we also need to highlight the medium and long-term perspectives to their practices. the cap is an indispensable tool to support farmers in embracing soil stewardship. yet, as concluded by the recent evaluation of the contribution of the cap to soil protection, the cap is not being used to its full potential, largely due to the absence of an eu framework that establishes what we want our soils to look like and deliver to all. to conclude, let me recall that in the eu, most soil is privately owned – but it is also a common good that needs to be protected for future generations. soil protection is a key component in environmental policy, and we can only curb its degradation by acting together. when i say together, i mean by being as inclusive as possible and working with the member states, with the landowners and land users, with the scientists and local authorities to take better care of the soil and preserve it for future generations. thank you again for your attention, and i look forward to working very closely with you to reverse soil degradation and to tackle the huge challenges linked to it.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for this debate. the presidency will continue to work towards the european union and its member states achieving the objectives and ambitions set in the field of soil protection. we look forward to working with parliament, with the commission, on soil protection and look forward to the adoption by the commission of the updated soil strategy. as you all know, in 2006 the commission put forward a proposal for a directive establishing a framework for soil protection. the negotiations were difficult and despite the best efforts of several presidencies, including our own, the portuguese presidency in 2007, there remained significant differences between the member states' positions on a number of key issues which led to a lack of agreement and, consequently, the commission withdrew its proposal. more than 14 years later, as has been said here, i am pleased to say that if the commission proposes a new legislative framework for soil protection, the council will naturally examine it and enter into negotiations with a view to achieving fruitful results. i would like to conclude by underlining the strong commitment of the council and the member states to developing a sustainable land management policy that respects environmental and climate objectives and contributes to tackling the main drivers of desertification and land degradation, as well as to achieving the objective of zero urban sprawl by 2050.
in writing. without a strong legal framework and adequate funding for the development of irrigation systems in the member states, the eu risks failing to achieve its stated objective of combating desertification, a growing phenomenon affecting over 13 member states. existing measures at both community and member state level have proved insufficient to protect soils in recent years, and despite the existence of an eu thematic soil strategy, land degradation has continued across the eu, with losses estimated at €50 billion per year. it is therefore crucial that, as part of the green deal, we come up with an ambitious legislative framework to protect and promote sustainable land use in the eu. the new legislation will have to take into account important threats to soil, such as desertification and salinisation, unsustainable agricultural practices, poor management, land abandonment, and contamination and biodiversity loss. the new legislation will also need to respect the principle of subsidiarity and property rights and include criteria for assessing soil quality, restoration targets, monitoring and reporting measures, exchange of best practices and training for farmers, as well as support measures and additional financial incentives for landowners to protect soils and land.
mr president, brexit was never going to be a single event, but a process of rebuilding and managing our relationship in a new framework. i also hope that we will strengthen our cooperation in areas not yet covered by the agreement – more ambitious mobility arrangements and stronger cooperation in the area of student exchanges. we must overcome the loss of erasmus. youth and education exchanges need a new format and financial support on both sides. we need to create an eu-uk university student mobility scheme. colleagues, i would like to echo what the president of the commission said this morning: the commitments printed on paper are only as good as they are put in practice. the signs we have seen so far are not encouraging. this concerns primarily the northern ireland protocol, but also other areas where we have seen the uk already acting against its commitments. in spite of the non-discrimination clause in visa policies, the uk is already applying different fees for seasonal work visas, health and care worker visas, for citizens from bulgaria, romania, estonia, lithuania and slovenia. this is not acceptable. it is clear that the reasons for imposing different visa fees are of an artificial and political nature. the inclusion of a stronger non-discrimination clause was a huge success but regrettably, we see that the uk government is trying to circumvent it at the earliest opportunity. this sets a dangerous precedent. the european commission will have to use all legal instruments in the agreement to ensure its full implementation, including that of the reciprocity principle in mobility and visa issues. from all signals received so far, it will not be an easy task, and i wish vice-president šefčovič all the best on this.
mr. president, (words that don't ring) seriously damages british humour, because the explanation offered by the uk to justify discrimination against some european citizens, if it's a joke, is unsuccessful. in reality, the legal situation of romania, bulgaria, lithuania, estonia and slovenia is no different from that of the other 22 member states and therefore cannot become an argument in such a serious discrimination. however, citizens of the five countries are now penalized with visas that cost 55 euros more than those paid by the rest of the european citizens. it is all the more incomprehensible that this discrimination targets precisely those who have helped to develop britain over the last 20 years and who have brought the country billions of pounds. by doing so, the united kingdom shows its disrespect for the five countries and, in particular, for the european union. i hope that the amendment initiated by the romanian social democrats will be the first step towards returning to normal. supporting it is not a favour to the 33 million europeans that britain manages to offend, but a clear message that the union does not negotiate fundamental rights and leaves no one behind.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, today’s discussion, its depth and its profound interest, expressed in the speeches of what i remember was the highest number of speakers in the recent history of plenary debates in the european parliament, clearly demonstrates the importance of the vote that you honourable members are about to take as the trade and cooperation agreement (tca) forms the basis of our relationship with the uk after its departure from the union. many of you have underlined that this is an historic fact in itself. we are now called upon, together with the united kingdom, to write the next chapter of our common history. but before coming to the future, i need to start by thanking you for the four—month scrutiny work by all parliamentary committees and, beyond that, to thank you for your continuous support during the negotiations of both the tca and the withdrawal agreement and now their implementation. many of you worked very hard throughout this period, but please allow me to thank, in particular, the co-chairs of the united kingdom coordination group (ukcg), mr david mcallister and mr bernd lange, and all the members of the coordination group and, of course, our two co—rapporteurs, mr christophe hansen and mr andreas schieder, who took over the file from our great colleague who is now working in the dutch parliament, ms kati piri. as i said, and i underline again, many more members of the european parliament have been doing thorough work on the tca scrutiny, while the president of this house and the leaders of all political groups have been equally coordinating this exercise at the highest political level. as we have repeated many times, unity among institutions and among member states is, and must remain, a cornerstone of our eu—uk relations. only when we as the eu present a united front can we interact with such a close partner as effectively as possible. this scrutiny work on the implementation of the tca is, of course, far from over. i take note of your strong support for the tca today and in the votes in the committee on foreign affairs (afet) and the committee on international trade (inta). i hope it will be reflected in the plenary voting result as well, but i also take good note of your concerns and remarks. mr weber, mr azmani and mr lamberts called for the restoration of trust and the full implementation of the tca, the withdrawal agreement and especially the protocol on ireland and northern ireland as soon as possible, and, of course, under the condition that this parliament grants its consent to the tca and the council then adopts it. we need to accelerate the joint work with the uk on the implementation of the tca and its instruments. to do this, i have to say that your scrutiny work and identification of your points of concern will be helpful to me and will reinforce my negotiating position. therefore, honourable members, your work will continue as well. i count on our continuous close cooperation for the monitoring of the european parliament and this is why the commission has committed to giving full effect to the treaty prerogatives of the european parliament in the statement officially submitted to parliament. transparency and trust will be key to keeping our unity. the trade and cooperation agreement is strongly connected to the withdrawal agreement and we will, therefore, now accelerate our constructive engagement with our uk counterparts to ensure the full implementation of the protocol on ireland and northern ireland. as john hume was already quoted by our president, let me do it again, because he was absolutely right. there are no easy answers and no quick—fix solutions. therefore, our aim is – and must be – to find mutually agreeable pathways towards full implementation of the protocol, as was highlighted by ms iratxe garcía pérez, mr lamberts and mr hansen. we have to work at all levels, as was suggested by mr kelleher, and here i want to comment on the very constructive and good work which is done by our co-chairs on the specialised committees on ireland and northern ireland. that being said, and as the president has already indicated, the tca provides for more effective means, like cross—retaliation and the suspension of market access, in the event of a breach of the good faith obligation to implement the withdrawal agreement, including the protocol on ireland and northern ireland. brexit has, unfortunately, revived the tensions on the island of ireland, as was highlighted by mr schirdewan, mr kelly and many others. but ms fitzgerald reminded us that the protocol is the only viable solution to guarantee peace, stability and prosperity there by protecting the good friday agreement in all its dimensions, avoiding a hard border and upholding the integrity of our single market at the same time. i am planning to intensify my outreach to northern ireland, to listen to the stakeholders and to civil society, and to help them turn the change into a real opportunity, as was proposed by mr macmanus and mr scholtz. indeed, northern ireland is in a unique position to be part of both the uk’s internal market and the eu’s single market, so let’s turn this uniqueness into real opportunity. i would also like to tell honourable members that i understand and i acknowledge the attention that honourable members drew today to the question of citizens’ rights, data adequacy, fisheries and the supply of medicines. we are working very intensely on all of them. i listened very carefully to your comments and concerns and will be in very close touch with all of you. i am also convinced that the singling out of five member states on such a sensitive issue as work visas definitely falls into the category where we need to seek corrective action from our uk partners. if we are not able to resolve it by other means, i will insist that it be put on the agenda of the first session of the partnership council we will have once the tca is approved and ratified. many of you have underscored that the tca is very important for our economy and businesses to make sure that they are able to trade with the uk without tariffs and quotas. at the same time, the tca provides for unprecedented level-playing-field obligations to protect our businesses from unfair competition when it comes to issues like unlawful state aid or the lowering of labour or environmental standards. this is underpinned by an effective governance system, allowing for unilateral measures by the parties in the event of a breach of the obligations by the parties. it is indeed important that the tca starts to be fully applied in practice. the ratification will mark an end point to the long negotiation period and the beginning of another chapter in our relations with the uk, a relationship that will be framed by a strong trade and cooperation deal, but will not be limited to it. apart from all this, the uk remains a key partner and a like-minded ally when it comes to issues like climate change and relations with other partners around the globe. although not even the best agreement can amount to advantages of being part of the european family and although there are limits to what we can do with a third country, we both have an interest to explore the possibilities to the maximum and build on our inevitably common future to face our common challenges ahead. thank you very much for this profound debate. i hope that this debate clearly confirmed how important the tca is for all of us. therefore, i would make a plea for your positive consent vote.
we also thank you, mr vice-president, for the seriousness and constructivity of your cooperation, as well as michel barnier and the president of the commission.
acting president of the council. mr president, it is an honour to be able to close this debate, an intense, lively, rich, profound debate which has addressed the future of our relationship with the united kingdom, but at the same time it raises questions about our own union and the importance of continuing to work together, parliament, council, commission, ensuring interinstitutional cooperation and our unity. i would like to thank once again the extraordinary work of our chief negotiator, michel barnier, and also the great professionalism and the work already done and to be done by vice-president maroš šefčovič. with today's approval in parliament and the soon to be adopted decision in the council on the conclusion of the trade and cooperation agreement we can move towards a new and more positive stage in relations between the european union and the united kingdom. we will continue to be vigilant in relation to the implementation of the withdrawal agreement and also of this trade and cooperation agreement and this will require constant monitoring and pragmatic follow-up work. we have full confidence in the commission's efforts to ensure that the uk is in full compliance and we will continue to contribute to the good implementation of the commitments made. we all stand to gain from the stabilisation of the relationship between the european union and the united kingdom and from the strengthening of a constructive relationship of mutual trust. the approval of the trade and cooperation agreement is an important step in this direction of a new path of cooperation and partnership with the united kingdom in the future and this is important for the institutions, it is important for governments, it is important for businesses, but above all it is important for the citizens of europe on both sides of the channel.
the joint debate is closed. the votes on the recommendation by mr schieder and mr hansen and on the motions for resolutions will take place today. i'm adjourning the meeting until 3:00 p.m. at 3 p.m., we will continue the debate on the discharge for 2019. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement provides the basis for future cooperation in line with european objectives, which aim to maintain high standards and maintain a level playing field for all parties involved. the agreement, ratified by the ep, provides for preferential arrangements in several areas and participation in union programmes. the document, at the ep's request, includes explicit references to protecting the rights of eu citizens in the uk, reiterating some of the provisions of the eu withdrawal agreement. in my previous role as minister delegate for european affairs, i placed particular emphasis on this component in my discussions at european level and with british partners. i denounced, in a written amendment, approved by a large majority, the discrimination generated by the imposition of a higher visa fee for romanian citizens. five eu countries are facing these difficulties, which means that the european executive must insist that the uk offers equal treatment to all european citizens. in this regard, i have written to both the european commission and the uk government to find a solution quickly. the trade agreement goes beyond traditional free trade agreements but does not ensure the level of economic integration that existed during the uk's membership of the eu. it does, however, provide the basis for long-term cooperation.
the trade and cooperation agreement between the european union and the united kingdom sets out the framework for further cooperation. it is, of course, a pity that the united kingdom decided to leave the european union in the first place. this agreement will, however, help to mitigate the worst effects of brexit. it also provides legal certainty for citizens and businesses alike. however, the role of members of the european parliament does not end with the approval. it is our responsibility to continue to monitor closely whether the uk is still fully complying with its obligations under the cooperation agreement. there are still problems that need to be solved. for example, it is regrettable that the united kingdom is no longer participating in the erasmus programme. young people should not be deprived of this wonderful opportunity to broaden their horizons. the united kingdom should also swiftly withdraw its decision which discriminates against citizens of estonia, lithuania, bulgaria, romania and slovenia, as they have to pay more for a uk work visa (e.g. seasonal work visa) than citizens of other member states. all eu citizens should be treated equally. the united kingdom did not wish to negotiate in the area of foreign policy, security and defence as part of the agreement. nevertheless, we need to work closely together in these areas. fortunately, we have all the conditions for this and there is a clear need for it, given the current geopolitical situation.
the trade and cooperation agreement between the european union and the united kingdom is to enter into force on a permanent basis following the provisional application of the agreement. however, even after the agreement has been adopted, the eu and this parliament must closely monitor the proper safeguarding of the independence and status of northern ireland. brexit is a sad example of a political failure. it has paid hundreds of billions of pounds to the uk, and the european commission estimates that the uk's gdp will decline by 2.25 percent by 2022 as a result of brexit. on the other hand, the contract negotiations have now been concluded and it is time to turn the page. brexit has severely damaged eu-uk relations, which need to be re-tuned to a positive frequency. climate policy offers a good opportunity to renew eu-uk relations and is an opportunity for positive cooperation. the eu-uk-us front can work together to ensure that the un climate conference cop26 in glasgow in november will agree on sufficiently ambitious targets to reduce co2 emissions to bring global warming to below 2 degrees. the eu recently agreed on climate action and the 2030 targets. the aim is to reduce emissions by at least 55% compared with 1990. the scientific evidence suggests that we should have aimed for a reduction of at least 70% by 2030. the cop26 host country, the united kingdom, deserves credit for setting a respectable 78% reduction target for 2035. the objective is based on the scientific assessment of the national panel on climate change. to succeed in combating climate change, we need a climate policy that is based on science.
in writing. i am very pleased that we are finally voting today to approve the eu-uk agreement, which will lay the foundations for our common relationship after the uk leaves the eu. i wished, as most of us here do, that the british would stay. however, we must accept and respect the reality and the free will of the people of the united kingdom. i've always said there's no point in trying to seek some kind of symbolic retribution or even punishment for the british for their decisions, but we have to focus on the future. the united kingdom remains our closest partner and ally, and both sides have an interest in close and mutually beneficial cooperation. i am pleased that this agreement lays a strong foundation for such a partnership and i fully support its approval. true, both sides had to make many compromises, some of them painful, but overall, they were able to reach an agreement that is balanced. if it were to fail today to be rejected by this parliament, it would be a grave mistake with far-reaching consequences. let us not prolong this uncertainty any longer. let us approve the agreement today and continue to work to further deepen our cooperation with each other in the economy, trade, science and education, security and other issues.
rapporteur. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the court of auditors, the secretary-general, directorates-general, the internal auditor, the authority, my colleagues and parliament’s staff, including the secretariat and our offices, for their valuable work during this discharge procedure. trust between citizens and institutions is based on the responsible and lawful use of public funds. i am therefore pleased to say that, with regard to parliament’s administrative expenditure, the level of error was below the materiality threshold in 2019. eu money is public money, and parliament’s budget represents almost one fifth of the total administrative expenditure of all the eu institutions. all eu spending must be based on simple and clear rules. however, this is, unfortunately, not currently the case when looking at the errors found by the court concerning the contributions received by one political party at european level. it is inappropriate for a political party at european level to be unable to present written agreements or receipts for expenditure paid with taxpayers’ money. the court should not have to make the same recommendation from year to year. the year 2019 was affected by a staff reduction target, which required parliament to eliminate 59 posts from its administration. in the report, we warn of the negative effects of these cuts and point out the increased workload and responsibility of certain committees. we must ensure that parliament continues to have sufficient resources in the future, and that our working conditions are appealing in order to bring top talent in-house from every corner of europe. the staffing situation and staff workload should be reassessed. we should also look carefully at the current recruitment practices. the epso competition is not adapted well to parliament’s current needs, and we call for a new selection framework to be developed for specialist competitions. at the same time, we should pay attention to geographical and gender balance. one of the most pressing issues in the report is the voluntary pension fund. on the one hand, we must recognise and respect the legal basis of the commitments that parliament has made to its members. these rights are stated directly in the statute of members, article 27, and there is no running away from them. but on the other hand, i am extremely worried about the situation, and we need to find a solution that is fair to all sides. at the moment, we have to be patient and wait for the european court of justice’s ruling. after the ruling, we can reassess the situation and explore all possible legal options in order to limit and avoid using taxpayer money to cover the deficit. the report raises issues across different areas of parliament’s operations. we need to note the increasing importance of cybersecurity and learn from the good practices developed during the election campaign. we can also be happy about the highest-recorded voter turnout in 20 years, and i think we should continue to engage citizens actively and use all our communication channels through the entire term and not only a brief period before the elections. in the report, we paid close attention to the sustainability aspect of parliament’s operations. although officially carbon-neutral since 2016, there is still more to be done. we can keep improving by making a gradual shift to zero-emission vehicles, reducing our paper consumption and by improving the energy efficiency of our buildings. the pandemic has brought a lot of changes to the way parliament operates, and many innovative solutions have been developed quickly to accommodate the situation. it is imperative for parliament to keep innovating and developing a variety of technological solutions to improve its functioning. with smart solutions and automated systems, we can release resources into other activities, increase efficiency and reduce the amount of human errors. normally, we would hold 12 plenary sessions a year in strasbourg, but the exceptional circumstances have forced us to keep the sessions in brussels instead. despite my call for further automation and our technological preparedness to be developed, i also call for us to get back to normal as soon as possible. and in the report, i really want to highlight the temporary nature of the current situation. there is always scope for improvement, and the discharge procedure gave us a tool to effectively monitor the way taxpayer money is being used. as the rapporteur, i recommend granting discharge to parliament for the year 2019.
the rapporteur. madam president, i am very pleased to see you, mrs zacarias, because, in addition to addressing you, i must have perhaps the easiest report - at least, that is what is believed - of all the reports presented by parliament, since we have been returning to the council for almost eleven years. you know this because you are a committed european and you are in a difficult situation today because you are here as the representative of a council which, despite the request of vice-president jourová and the request of mrs hohlmeier, chair of the committee on budgetary control, does not want to sit down at the table. simply sitting down to discuss some €580 million at a time when europe needs to express its democracy, at a time when there are doubts about the use of the funds. i do not have any, because i know from the information from the commission and the court of auditors that the money is a priori well managed within the council, and i am glad of that. but why should the council remain the only european body to refuse to submit to the budgetary control and discharge of this parliament? i am very sorry because, as you know, i was already rapporteur in the previous parliament for the committee on constitutional affairs, and the same question was already being asked. why don't we at least talk about it? i therefore turn to you: your mandate is not over, you are still president of the council. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he would be willing to sit down with the commission and parliament. i make this formal request on behalf of the whole house. because there is unanimity. we may not agree on everything, there may be legal debates - i am the first to admit this - but at least let us discuss, let us debate. you must, please, get the general secretariat of the council to start talking to parliament and the commission. for the rest, i pardon you, and everyone else, so that we can talk, i will not take my six minutes of legal arguments, of article 262, of all this. you know, we know, it is more a matter of principle, we are here in a... no, i do not want to use a negative word, but let us say that we are not up to the necessary democracy and transparency that europe, that the european union must show to all its citizens and to the whole world. if you do not have the opportunity, at least perhaps, please take the time to read our resolution, because we are going to postpone this question for another six months and we will come back in six months and i hope we will not come back to vote against, but to take note of the fact that finally everyone is sitting around the table. so perhaps you will take the time to read our resolution, the parliament's resolution, because parliament, through this resolution, is asking for european democracy to make progress - to make progress on the issue of disabled workers, to make progress on gender equality, to make progress on non-discrimination, to make progress also on ethics and transparency in meetings with, in particular, representatives of interests. finally, i do not know how to say this, but perhaps parliament should be listened to a little more about appointments, over which the council has ultimate power, which we do not dispute, but perhaps it could at least have the courtesy and the obligation to explain itself when it ignores a vote by parliament, and we saw this very recently with the representative of the polish state to the court of auditors. we are in a situation which makes us doubt the council's will to find consensual solutions, solutions which respect the positions of all parties. let us not oppose each other, that is not the european logic, that is not what we want, that is not what you want. i ask you, and i ask you on behalf of this parliament, please, that the council respects our positions and, at the very least, justifies itself when it ignores a negative vote by this parliament.
rapporteur. – madam president, let me start by saying a big thank you to all of my colleagues for this excellent report and for our work together and also to the institutions that i have been in charge with for the good collaboration. i wish that we could collaborate in such a way everywhere because it is such an important exercise. now a few words on each of these institutions or categories of institutions. on the court of justice, as a rapporteur of the european parliament i would simply like to congratulate the court on the functioning of their institution in 2019. through its reference to the adaptability to new technologies, through the commitment to financial efficiency, to environment and most importantly to delivering high quality and timely judgments, the court is one of the example institutions of the union. i would like to draw attention, however, to the fact that for good functioning of an institution, not only its financial but also its human resources need to be adjusted, keeping in mind the principle of maintaining high quality deliverables. and increasing the number of judges must be supplemented with an adequate increase in supporting staff allowing for an equitable division of labour and avoiding situations of burnout. i appreciate the efforts of the court to increase efficiency and to ensure the mental health support of its employees, but outside support here is vital as well. transparency is an area where the court has good results, but where there is still room for improvement, and it is my hope that in the future, cvs and declarations of interest of members will be available on the court’s website. moving to the justice and home affairs agencies, in most of the cases i must say that i’m happy about the situation in 2019. as a message, we encourage eu agencies to work together to identify common aims – to cooperate in order to facilitate economies of scale, joint public procurement schemes, common strategies for cybersecurity, ecological transition or improving the ethical standards, are examples of areas where agencies are encouraged to cooperate. in the fields of ethics and transparency it is important that all agencies use declarations of interest, and this is a topic that i will come back to every single time until it is happening, because i consider it a key issue. it is not for an employee or a member of the management to make self-assessments of interest, and in terms of ethics and transparency this kind of assessment must be done by a third party, such as an independent eu ethics body. a remark on the european asylum support office (easo). after a few years of postponing the discharge for 2019 we do acknowledge the positive changes and the commitment of the new executive director for the sound management of the office. it also has been through a transformation process, a very good one. it has improved governance and internal control systems. a few words on frontex where we have decided to postpone the discharge in the committee. it is one of the most important decentralised agencies. its scale, the mandate and the budget have all been upgraded by the new regulation in 2019 in order to respond to the necessity of having a strong and effective institution for managing the eu’s external borders. implementing the new mandate is of course a challenge but this agency is a key component of the eu’s security and, with greater power, comes greater responsibility. the regulation actually takes note of that. the management team of the agency must fully implement the provisions of this regulation without any hesitation. here, however, through the hearings that we organise, exchanges of views, journalistic investigations – and there were many – after listening to the representatives of the agency, to the representatives of the commission, it seems quite clear that there has been, first of all, a reluctance in fully implementing this mandate of the new regulation. there has been some proper management issues, and these are quite strong reasons, i would say, to postpone the discharge for 2019. i truly hope that the assistance of the frontex scrutiny working group that we constituted will help, that the management board and those responsible for the good governance of the agency will be able to correct the issues identified which led to the postponement of this year’s discharge. we all aim for a strong and trustworthy frontex and when there are problems i think that it is vital that we tackle these problems from the beginning as soon as they are signalled, fully addressing the issues that we identified, so that we do not repeat unsuccessful stories of a postponement for years and years that could affect deeply the mandate of the agency. overall concluding remark, i would like to highlight that respect for human rights, high standards of ethics and integrity, sound financial management, the wellbeing of staff, and creating a safe environment for reporting wrongdoing are absolutely vital for the good functioning of any agency or eu body and we need to ensure at all times that they perform in such a way. this is also part of the mandate we have been entrusted with by european citizens.
in writing. i welcome the agreement on the new citizens, equality, rights and values programme and its financing. i agree that the so-called eu values strand of the programme needs to be substantially funded from this year onwards, because the rights and values enshrined in article 2 teu need to be consistently promoted and protected. the crisis that has lasted for more than a year has highlighted many things, including the fact that not only our security and well-being may be at risk, but that there are times when the exercise of our fundamental rights may also be limited. as an example, as a specialist on the subject, i would mention the rights of indigenous peoples and linguistic minorities in europe, which are part of the values of the union. these minorities, who represent around 10% of eu citizens, have experienced difficulties in accessing digital mother tongue education or emergency measures in several member states over the past year. in these trying times, for minority communities, in many places the only reliable source of information was their civil society organisations and minority media. i look forward to the possibilities of the new seven-year programme. i hope that the calls will be addressed to all minority organisations that seek to fulfil eu values without discrimination. in their territory, such organisations perform important public tasks, which complement or even replace the efforts of public institutions in the member states in this respect.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the risk of attacks and threats to individual rights and media pluralism and the separation of powers is very much present in the european union and we have seen how the pandemic has highlighted and exacerbated structural inequalities in our societies. a common european area of justice is therefore more necessary than ever to uphold the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. in the context of the justice programme, the european project will be strengthened by safeguarding those common values on which to build mutual trust between member states for stronger judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. the support of the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, the promotion of a common legal culture, the training of legal practitioners, the improvement of the efficiency and transparency of national judicial systems will then be essential. we must therefore make effective and equal access to justice, including through the new tools offered by digitalisation, especially for those groups at risk of discrimination or most vulnerable, such as minors, women, lgbtiq people, disabled people and victims of crime.
president, commissioner, i am wearing an orange tie today because today is king's day in the netherlands and you are showing that you are proud to be dutch. that's why it's orange. but i am also proud to be european because of the values and the standards. i am very much in favour of this plan because we are now putting a lot of money into building confidence in the rule of law, where european values and standards are guaranteed. it's not just money that's important. we also have to -- and for that, my orange tie -- invest in emotion and identity. because if you love someone, you trust that person. if you love a country, you trust that country. if you love the country, you trust the rule of law in which you live. so it's not just money that we need to invest in. we also need to invest in emotion and identity. people should be proud to be european and we should be proud to be able to spread european values and standards to everyone in europe and even beyond. hence this orange tie, and next time it'll be blue with yellow stars.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the practical implementation of the values on which the european union is founded also requires a genuine european area of justice based on the rule of law, the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, mutual recognition and trust and judicial cooperation. the new justice programme 2021-2027 will contribute to strengthening and further developing this european area of justice. the ambitious objectives of the new programme are in fact the same as the protection of fundamental rights and the rule of law. facilitate and enhance cooperation between judicial authorities in civil and criminal matters, including in the fight against increasingly transnational crime; ensuring the effectiveness of judicial systems and the effectiveness of judicial decisions; promoting the training of judicial staff to foster the development of a common legal culture and to provide adequate responses, in particular to the protection needs of the most vulnerable, such as minors or women victims of violence; the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the appointment of a european data protection supervisor and the appointment of a european data protection supervisor. with this new instrument and with this new programme we are making concrete actions possible to guarantee and strengthen the rights of all european citizens.
madam president, i am pleased that we have concluded the negotiations on the justice programme with a balanced project and i thank my fellow rapporteurs and commissioner reynders for this excellent result, because they were not easy negotiations. 60% of the resources will be allocated to promoting the rule of law, the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, and legal training. we have also managed to reserve the additional margin of flexibility for projects aimed at promoting the rule of law in the union. at the very beginning of march, four calls for projects were published - a fifth will be published in may - aimed at achieving the objectives of the european strategy on the digitisation of justice, facilitating and supporting judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, access to justice for all, but also funding training for justice professionals, and i hope that all competent entities will apply and use with confidence the resources at their disposal. i also hope that in the next financial year we will have more ambition and a bigger budget, because the justice chapter is so important and the rule of law is so important. commissioner and dear colleagues, let's keep up this good eu propaganda, because this actually defends the judges in poland and it actually defends the freedom of speech of those who are less happy with the european union and this project. let's just keep up the good work.
madam president, it is imperative that the green certificate facilitates the free movement of citizens and residents of the union. if you have a certificate attesting to either vaccination, testing or recovery from infection, it will be recognised in all states of the union and mobility for the purpose of business travellers, or for tourism purposes, for our citizens, will no longer be restricted. it's an important step forward that we're making today, a strong signal to accelerate vaccination and a step forward to resume some economic activities more quickly. in the debates in parliament, i asked that the testing for the purpose of obtaining the certificate be free of charge. this is important for the citizens of the union and i hope that the member states will implement our decision. efficient and mass testing are considered decisive tools to limit the spread of covid-19 and the mutations that are becoming a concern, and is also a key component of the strategy to stimulate economic recovery and allow for the normal functioning of activities, especially educational and social ones. the availability of testing is fragmented due to the cost of testing, but also due to the choice of testing facilities. in some member states, the cost of pcr tests is very high and this primarily affects young people, who have not been given priority for vaccination and do not have the financial means to be tested when needed. to return physically and safely to schools, to encourage chronic patients to return to hospitals for treatment, and to reduce the risk of infection, testing is needed in addition to vaccination. the first-line workforce, including healthcare professionals, patients, school and university staff should benefit from free testing. i call on the commission to convince and support the member states in this regard.
madam president, freedom of movement is a right for each eu citizen. while i welcome the establishment of a common eu tool, the eu covid-19 certificate, i insist that it should in no way lead to any discrimination. especially, but not only, in a time of crisis, it is important that we ensure that the rule of law is respected and that no one is excluded! vaccination, a negative test result and recovery from a covid-19 infection are to be considered on the same level in the eu covid-19 certificate. now, to ensure that there really is no discrimination on the ground of financial possibilities, to avoid a two-class system between those who can afford regular testing and those who cannot, universal, accessible, timely and free of charge testing possibilities are key! at the moment, there are huge disparities between member states. in luxembourg, where i come from, citizens are invited to large—scale testing, whereas in some member states it might cost up to eur 150 or more. for this reason, we call in the joint motion for a resolution on the member states to ensure universal, accessible, timely and free of charge testing. this is especially important for all workers in permanent contact with people and who do an essential job in times of crisis, such as health and childcare workers, workers in supermarkets and cleaning staff. for everybody else, testing should be at real-cost level. it shouldn’t generate a profit. this is crucial in the fight against the pandemic and it is inconceivable that profit is made at the expense of health and safety!
(reacting to some comments made without a microphone) i would like to remind colleagues that to make a point of order in this type of debate because we have links with the offices in the member states, the question has to be put before the debate, but i understand that the council representative is now here, and in fact she has remained in the room during this discussion.
madam president, commissioner, we are faced with a number of problems. we are unable to vaccinate the entire european population in time because the countries of the european union are foolishly insisting that we want to protect the pharmaceutical companies and their patents. today we're talking about a digital certificate, but it's not a tool to fight covid-19. i am very grateful and i thank my colleagues who have prepared with me a resolution that should at least solve the testing. and testing is the foundation of the entire pandemic response. if we don't have free testing, if people can't get tested for their needs, if they can't visit their families -- and i'm not talking about cross-border contact at all, but about not being able to visit relatives because you don't have hundreds of euros to get tested -- nothing will get better. i beg you, commissioner, this is not a matter for the member states. we have a responsibility to ensure that everyone who wants to can get tested, and at the same time to protect all of us, because just knowing that we're safe through testing can mean fighting the pandemic in reality.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am also wearing a mask here today, although it is not mandatory, but i just want to point out again: we are not over corona yet! here in belgium too, the intensive care units are overcrowded. belgium has asked germany for help, but the nursing staff in germany is also at its limit, and that is why we should all stick to the measures now, and in case of doubt always a little more than is prescribed. but there is hope: the eu's vaccination drive is starting. in a few weeks, every adult in the european union who wants to will be able to get vaccinated, and that will bring the chance of more freedom - and more freedom to travel - without the travel wave becoming a wave of infection. the certificate we are passing today is not a miracle cure. there's no 100% in medicine, i learned that in my first semester of medical school, but vaccinated, recovered, and negative test subjects have a dramatically reduced risk of endangering others. it is therefore good that we are issuing this certificate and the european parliament will improve this proposal. commissioner reynders, what were you thinking, taking a rapid test which is really not safe as the basis for a certificate of recovery? we must do away with this and introduce an antibody test instead, and i hope that the council will adopt this approach. so: now we have to be careful, we have to get the numbers down, so that in a few weeks we can take giant steps towards more freedom, have a great summer, and step by step get this pandemic under control.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing here today is not the introduction of a new passport or a discriminatory travel document, but a temporary instrument to make life easier for citizens by simplifying and speeding up their movements throughout the union. these days, our mailboxes are flooded with emails from confused citizens looking for answers, but also hundreds of emails that are part of an organized disinformation campaign. it is therefore urgent that each of us, together with the commission and the council, develop a major institutional information campaign so that the public is aware of the details of this certificate and that the principles of non-discrimination, transparency, proportionality, privacy, with the necessary data protection, and accessibility, including all persons with disabilities, are its main vectors. in addition, citizens need to know that we in this parliament have listened to their concerns and are working to improve the commission's initial proposal and to ensure that all health issues are covered. we ask the member states not to add new restrictions and to guarantee a health certificate and free pcr for everyone. let us work together to make the certificate operational as soon as possible and restore the free movement of persons. ladies and gentlemen, today this parliament must give its massive support to this amended proposal to open a window of hope to the citizens, and my whole delegation will do so.
madam president, europe is taking a big step today by ensuring that from june there will be a european vaccination certificate and not 27 different certificates. we have used common and uniform epidemiological and scientific criteria to ensure that this single european certificate provides health guarantees. therefore, only vaccines approved by the ema and who will be on this certificate. we guarantee data security and privacy and we guarantee equality between all citizens, because the holders of this european certificate will have the same rights and obligations throughout the territory of the union. that is why we do not accept the council's conclusions, which seek to add additional restrictions to a european certificate, breaking the very essence of it. parliament does not accept it. moreover, as has been said, this certificate is not a passport, because neither the vaccine nor the certificate are compulsory in europe. but it will undoubtedly make it easier to move around europe, because it provides health guarantees and simplification for recognition throughout the union. as long as there are not enough vaccines in europe for all those european citizens who want to be vaccinated but cannot, pcr tests should be available under the same conditions as the vaccine for all citizens in the territory of the union.
madam president, commissioner, in order to facilitate a rapid return to normal health, we are discussing, among other things, the harmonization of the test equipment that will be required for our country. we want this screening to be quick, effective and free, but please spare us the 'more europe' you are proposing again. we know that leaving the european commission and its incompetent team to negotiate the testing materials would expose european nations to the risk of a new trade and logistical fiasco in this health crisis. enough, enough, enough of this fiasco! i remind you that britain, freed from your bureaucratic constraints, your unbearable procedures, is acting alone and has already vaccinated more than 50% of its population. the same is true for hungary, which was able to get rid of the european negotiation trap and vaccinate 42% of its citizens, making it the first european country in terms of percentage of vaccinated population. the european union is only 21%, and we are the laughing stock of the whole world. this is why we want the european commission to leave the european states full autonomy to negotiate these means of testing themselves. 2020 has shown us your inability to provide us with masks and the vaccine negotiations have been a complete failure. instead of speed of delivery, you chose price: wrong choice. instead of structuring business contracts with precise delivery clauses, you have only formulated purchasing intentions - another bad choice. you promised us a europe of health; it's a bust. so let the member states have this freedom to take action and to ensure the health security of their own people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the devastating impact of the pandemic on health, on work, on tourism, on transport, on the economy in general, has created a great need to return to freedom of movement and safety, facilitating recovery. if the objective of the digital green pass is to facilitate free and secure movement under common rules, we must ensure that this tool does not represent a danger to public health or a source of discrimination between citizens and states for non-compliance with the rules on the protection of personal data and improper use of the exercise of rights. this instrument must therefore be accompanied by an increase in vaccine production capacity, including by liberalizing patents, as requested in some of the amendments tabled by our colleagues on the european left, and also as requested by us in an oral question to the european commission. the aim is also to ensure fair and rapid distribution and free access to testing.
madam president, ever since the idea was put forward by prime minister mitsotakis we have been advocating in the epp the european covid-19 certificate. supporting the certificate does not mean being against freedom of movement. on the contrary, it is defending schengen. it does not imply violating fundamental rights, whether it's privacy, because data protection is guaranteed, or equality, because we advocate free testing and free certificates. supporting the certificate does not imply discrimination as it applies to those vaccinated, those recovered and those showing a negative test. those who cannot travel today without severe restrictions will be able to do so now. supporting the certificate is not supporting a restrictive measure. instead, it's about starting to lift the restrictions. but the european citizens must be told very clearly from here, from the european parliament, that national governments are still resisting, are still reluctant, because they do not want to accept coordinated and harmonised criteria for the whole of europe. and so if the member states do not accept this measure, which is transitional and temporary, with the same criteria for restrictions throughout the european area, it will be of little value, practically useless. that's the responsibility. the commission and parliament are in favour of freedom of movement. the national states, let's see if they defend themselves or not.
madam president, the vaccine is the way out of this crisis. the main purpose is of course to save lives, but when possible, down the road, they will also be crucial for our society to start opening for the integration between our countries and for free movement to resume. the eu covid-19 certificates are not travel documents, they are not passports, they are simply a certificate that facilitates the free movement of our citizens. if you’re not yet vaccinated you can still travel showing your negative test. if you have already had the disease you can travel with the certificate of recovery. and if you haven’t had the chance to get a positive pcr test you can still show your immunity with a positive test for antibodies. this is something we in the s&d group fought for, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) also thought it was important. but free movement must apply for all, regardless of the thickness of your wallet. vaccines are free, certificates are free, and to ensure that no one is discriminated against the covid test must also be free for the citizens. this point is so important so we have a separate resolution on the affordability of covid testing. i am convinced that the proposal on the table will result not only in safer certificates, but also in more fair certificates.
madam president, commissioner, we all want to return to normal life and the first step is vaccination, and to regain the benefit of the right to free movement, a right so dear to europeans, we also need this certificate. but there are some important safeguards that we must secure in the negotiations that follow. the green certificate is not a passport and cannot be imposed as a precondition for travel. no discrimination between our citizens. so for those who don't yet have access to the vaccine, the testing option needs to be made easier, and we can do that by advocating for free testing to be included in the certificate. because we are adopting a general european regulation that is binding and enforceable, any other restriction decided at national level would be contrary to the spirit and the legal force of this certificate. and finally, a few thoughts on freedom, much-touted in the context of the restrictions imposed by pandemic management. freedom is not every man for himself. freedom is knowing that by your own behavior, you can save lives. freedom is responsibility.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the vote in favour of introducing this digital green certificate will have profound negative ramifications both for the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals in the european union, and for the relationship between the individual and the state and the future of the european union. the essential reason for the existence of the european union was to create an area of freedom and prosperity, not a camp. but for the first time since the second world war, we are called today to vote against the very reason for the european union and to allow the violation of individual rights and freedoms on a mass scale. under the pretext of facilitating the exercise of a fundamental right such as freedom of movement, the european commission is asking us to vote in favour of depriving european citizens of other fundamental rights such as the right to privacy, to privacy, to human dignity and, not least, to decide about their own bodies. this green certificate does not facilitate, it infringes rights. the precedent that is now being set is that the individual rights of every person in the european union are neither guaranteed nor respected. once this precedent is set, a political majority can decide on individual rights and freedoms that pertain to (the chairman interrupted the speaker) the privacy of the person, i ask you: where will you stop?
the green digital certificate, a proposal signed by the greek prime minister, mr mitsotakis, is our common path to a safe re-launch of europe. the european parliament, through the urgency procedure and a series of amendments aimed at safe and easy travel, calls for the certificate to be implemented swiftly, the day after the regulation is published in the official journal of the european union, in order to give the tourism sector, which has been hit particularly hard, the necessary breathing space before the summer. in line with our positions, we will immediately restore cross-border movement, while ensuring that member states do not impose further restrictions after the certificate is applied. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the green paper can contribute to european recovery, which is why the negotiations with the member states which will begin immediately after today's vote must be short and focused on the mutually acceptable framework for the safe opening of the internal market. with full respect for the personal data of citizens without discrimination, as guaranteed by the european parliament, we will restore the fundamental european freedoms, minimising the consequences of the pandemic.
madam president, i am not as confident as some of my colleagues have been, as they have expressed it before you. in the text before us, several elements have been improved, notably the fact that the certificate is free of charge, or the fact that it is provisional. other parties should have been strengthened, but they are paying the price of compromise. the regulation does not guarantee free movement, but merely facilitates it, which was the commission's stated aim. i would not bet that the risks of discrimination are totally ruled out, and i still have doubts about the respect of purpose and proportionality, but other risks have not been ruled out in this proposal. it does not, therefore, in any way prevent member states from adding additional restrictions, which is contrary to the stated objective. a very problematic point is the possibility of having the qr code hosted on tracking applications, which is a breach in which several national authorities, including france, have gotten involved. finally, it makes no sense that this certificate could be used for purposes other than free movement, in particular access to goods and services. this procedure, counter-intuitively, may lead to the coexistence of 27 derogating schemes, which is the opposite of the stated aim. the certificate also masks the cruel absence of an ambitious plan to support tourism; the workers in this sector will appreciate it.
commissioner, madam president, the european union is making history at this moment. the eu was there for people in the first wave, in the second wave, it was always there in the pandemic. the eu must not be absent here either when it comes to tests accessible to citizens. it's not possible that they cost, sometimes, hundreds of euros, especially when we want to give people the possibility to move, especially when we have made joint purchases. i ask you: how will young people, this autumn, go on an erasmus, when for them 100 or 200 euros is a lot of money, especially since they want to be the last to be vaccinated? how will a grandmother from romania, who has a pension of 1,000 lei and when a pcr test costs 400 lei, how will she go to spain to see her grandchildren? that is why i strongly believe that the eu must intervene here too, commissioner. you have heard my colleague, sophia in 't veld, you have heard the council, on joint procurement, where does all this added value come from on the market, where do these prices come from? the green certificate is a good thing. let's have the courage to make it good to the end.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a turning point in the fight against the pandemic. we're close to summer. after months of restrictions and sacrifices, we see a light at the end of the tunnel as the vaccination drive accelerates. parliament therefore immediately supported the commission's proposal to establish a common european certificate to facilitate the movement of people, one of the pillars of our union, for those who have been vaccinated, recovered and who have undergone a molecular antigen test. we have contributed to improving the proposal by introducing greater safeguards in the protection of personal data, the accessibility of information, the interoperability of databases, the free provision of tests, because we cannot discriminate between those who can afford these tests and those who cannot. we need to be clear: is not a vaccination passport; it's not a travel document. it will last for one year, it introduces no obligations and the schengen rules will continue to apply. but it must be implemented quickly, without unilateral or more restrictive measures by governments, which are unacceptable and would limit its effectiveness. the european covid certificate can really give a breath of fresh air to tourism and cultural activities, which have been so badly affected by more than a year of closures. let 's not waste this opportunity . we owe it to our citizens.
madam president, madam secretary of state, commissioner, i have prepared a speech on this subject, but now, after all the speeches by my colleagues, i feel i must speak about something else. as meps, we travel a lot and we are not alone. millions of european citizens are doing the same. the pandemic restrictions sometimes require us to change three or four planes to get here. we test at least three times a week. i can tell you that it is a torment, and this torment has been experienced by all european citizens for the last year, with all the restrictions, with all the quarantines. discussions on this certificate must therefore focus on finding the best and quickest way to return to free circulation. the certificate is absolutely beneficial, and free testing, as well as increasing the rate of vaccination, are a sine qua non condition for a free european union, for normal life and, very importantly, for the recovery of the economy. all our efforts are in vain if the economy collapses, if people lose confidence in our ability to find solutions at european level. i support this instrument and will vote accordingly.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. freedom is always better than restriction, and that's true even if a certificate helps you do that, because especially with the increase in vaccination rates, there has to be a way to know who's protected and who's not. i ask the eu institutions to pay special attention to the proof of immunity of minors under 16 years of age, as they are not yet eligible for vaccination. however, if they remain under quarantine regulations, the freedom of movement of families will remain restricted. there are still many questions about the management of the epidemic and vaccines. but one thing is for sure. according to current science, vaccination alone is certain to prevent serious illness and curb the spread of the epidemic. neither a rapid test nor a certificate can replace the immunity claimed by vaccinations. a recent survey has come out with some very disturbing results. in romania, less than 20 percent of the population would like to be vaccinated soon. meanwhile, an average of 200 people are dying every day from the coronavirus pandemic. we dare say that refusing to be vaccinated is a selfish act towards our own families and towards society, because with every person vaccinated, there is a decrease in the risk of overcrowding in hospitals and the risk of death. of course, vaccination cannot be mandatory, but that does not take away any of the responsibility of the individual. i ask my colleagues, the commission and the member states to do everything possible in the coming period to convince the citizens.
madam president, in the member states, vaccination is not compulsory. consequently, by introducing green cards, we will have two categories of citizens: vaccinated citizens, who will hold a green card and who will be able to travel without the cost of testing; the second category will be european citizens who did not want to be vaccinated. this category of europeans, to travel, for example, on holiday, will have to pay for a pcr test. the cost of testing for a family of four to go on holiday is 400-500 euros, often more than the airfare. this creates a discriminatory treatment. in order to mitigate the effects of this temporary discrimination, it is mandatory for member states to ensure free testing of unvaccinated citizens. as vaccination and green certificate are free for vaccinated citizens, so pcr or antigen testing should be free for those who have not been vaccinated.
in writing. i supported the digital green certificate regulation because: 1. it is not restrictive, vaccination certificates can be replaced by pcr certificates, medical certificates of recovery from disease and antibody certificates; 2. in the absence of a single procedure at european level, the movement of citizens into and out of the eu will be greatly hampered by different customs procedures, long waiting times and even the risk of being refused entry; 3. without uniform regulation, nationals of states who have received vaccines other than those in the majority of use may be prevented from travelling; 4. without a uniform approach, different states or institutions could set their own very different rules, which opens the way to abuse. 5. the certificate is not mandatory, because vaccination is not mandatory either, so it does not restrict movement as such, but only facilitates faster crossing of a border, helping states to enter the path of normalization. 6.this regulation shall not prevent the subsidisation of pcr tests if governments so wish. the regulation is not perfect and the issue of the antibody validity remains unclear, but it is the european union's attempt to take a step towards normalisation.
madam president, mr high representative, the situation on the ukrainian border and in the black sea is a threat to both the sovereignty of ukraine and to regional stability and security. we must show solidarity with ukraine, not just in terms of communication, but also in concrete actions. to be present on the ground at the highest level, to strengthen our coordination and communication with nato. in order to prevent the outbreak of a large-scale war, the situation in donbas needs to be urgently stabilised. we need to return to the issues of the withdrawal of heavy weapons, the access of the osce ceasefire monitoring mission. i do not hesitate to say that we should facilitate ukraine's acquisition of the defensive armaments it needs to deter any intentions of military aggression and to be able to defend itself. president putin has become accustomed to occupying the territories of independent states at no cost to his military. he has also been involved in the repression of the civilian population in the region. but i'm confident that he won't invade ukraine again like he did in 2014 if the ukrainian military has a good defensive equipment capable of inflicting great damage in the event of aggression. we must support ukraine to resist russian pressure of any kind, including military pressure, and to continue its path towards strengthening democratic institutions and fundamental values, regardless of the opinion of the russian federation. the age of empires is over.
madam president, mr high representative, we are again forced to debate a resolution on russia in the european parliament. the latest challenges are a very clear confirmation that putin's agenda has nothing in common with the expectations of the citizens of the russian federation and is very far from what the european union expects from its relationship with russia. navalny's humiliation is a demonstration that the hard-line, stalinist, putin-aligned people want to show us, because they have nothing in common with the values on which our societies are built, such as democracy, freedom of speech or human rights. they wanted to assassinate him and failed, but now, by the treatment of navalny, they want to keep the entire russian society in terror, to discourage any opposition movement. russia's military threats today are nothing new. no one believed, mr. high representative, that in 2008, putin's russia would attack georgia, a partner of the european union, but it did, despite all the warnings. nobody thought that in 2014 crimea would be annexed, and putin annexed crimea, and today it's one of the most militarized regions in europe. i think it's time to respond firmly and decisively to all of these challenges, because in the midst of the pandemic, russia has orchestrated massive disinformation campaigns. it is time to set up a post of commissioner for combating disinformation in the european union. there are measures necessary.
in writing. – our joint resolution condemns in the strongest terms the unlawful and inhumane detention of alexei navalny, the military build—up on the border with ukraine and around the occupied crimea, as well as the activities aimed at destabilising and threatening eu member states, such as the explosion of the arms depot at vrbětice in the czech republic. we should also address, equally forcefully, the situation of media freedom and free speech in the russian federation. the relentless drive towards autocracy is not the answer for a better life and a stronger state. ruthlessly repressing any dissenting voices is certainly not a way to exercise power. as europeans, we should react strongly when any regime tries to crush independent voices fighting for truth and denouncing the pervasive corruption of the system. one such voice is occrp—affiliated investigative journalist roman anin, who was detained and interrogated by the fsb and whose devices and documents have been seized. such attacks on the freedom of the press cannot be tolerated. we call on the russian authorities to respect the freedom of the media and to cease any harassment and pressure on the independent media, including regarding roman anin.
in writing. we are discussing, repeatedly and pointedly, the eu's increasingly tense relationship with russia, we are adopting sanctions after sanctions, we are expelling diplomats or so-called diplomats, we are periodically exchanging 'friendships' with our great eastern neighbour, we are harnessing tools to react to its disinformation campaigns and we are confronting troop movements from ukraine's de facto severed borders, but we do not yet have a european strategy for relations with russia. a strategy would mean that the high representative for foreign affairs no longer exposes the eu to humiliating situations, that some member states do not get together to play the role of trojan horse, that some european capitals do not reach out to get a vaccine not yet approved by the european medicines agency or that other chancellors see to their own interests in supplying russian gas on advantageous terms through nordstream 2, despite the warnings of the us and the countries of the eastern flank about the risks not only economic but especially in terms of security. this debate is, unfortunately, just a way of finding out. but is this not enough to serve as a cover for the individual and selfish game of some eu states in their own relationship with russia?
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, i think the time has come to talk openly about a great vulnerability that exists in europe and i am glad that our response is the child guarantee, because it must be a firm commitment of europe to children, to ensure a decent life for them, to guarantee them free access to education and healthcare, as well as decent housing and adequate food. the most vulnerable and marginalized will be equipped with the basic necessities to succeed in life. this is a goal that must be achieved because poverty is expensive. its costs are hurting our societies, and just look at our friends in the united states, where, for example, child poverty costs the state over a trillion dollars a year, as a result of lost economic productivity, increased health care costs and crime. malnutrition and unhealthy housing among families with children lead to additional billions in health care and special education costs for children who grow up to be adults -- all of which are completely avoidable. europe needs to effectively implement the children's guarantee so that there are no more lost generations.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the eu anti-fraud programme is the smallest of the sectoral programmes, but it is the most important. its purpose is to protect the financial interests of the european union against fraud, corruption and irregularities and to assist the member states in this respect. i am convinced, unlike some of my colleagues on the left, that we will do everything possible to ensure that the use of eu funds in hungary is regular, contrary to the practice of the pre-2010 left-liberal government. if you want facts, please check with moody's international credit rating agency. last week, it found that hungary is the leader among eastern european countries in terms of fraud and irregularities related to eu subsidies. only 1.4% of all aid was affected, compared with 2.2% in the czech republic, 2.9% in romania and 21% in slovakia.
mr president, commissioner hahn, ladies and gentlemen, the obligation under article 325 of the treaty for the union and the member states to combat fraud and other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union is all the more urgent now that the european union is facing, as a result of the pandemic, the most serious economic and social crisis in its history and it is therefore essential to ensure that european funds are actually spent on a sustainable recovery in accordance with the law. fraud and corruption are also the means by which organised crime takes root in the economic and territorial fabric and in public administrations, threatening the founding values of the european union - the rule of law, economic freedom and free democratic participation - and are a threat not only to some member states but to the union as a whole. the adoption of the new anti-fraud programme 2021-2027 which will support and strengthen mutual assistance between member states' administrative authorities and cooperation between national authorities, the commission and other competent bodies of the union, including the european public prosecutor's office which will soon and i would say finally become fully operational, is therefore crucial. the new programme will also provide greater support for the exchange of information and the reporting of irregularities and fraud and, as financial crime often crosses european borders, will encourage participation by third countries. in implementing the anti-fraud programme, priority should be given to actions aimed at strengthening crossborder cooperation, facilitating the setting up of joint investigation teams and providing technical and operational support for investigations. protecting the financial interests of the union against fraud and corruption means protecting the rights of european citizens, and this is the task to which we, as representatives of those citizens, are called upon to contribute. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, mrs hohlmeier, and the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done.
mr president, i’m really happy that we have this programme and i wish to congratulate those who made it possible. it is a tool, but it is a small tool. however, in order to truly have results in countering fraud, there are some things to do, and we need to do them fast. the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) needs to start full speed in june, full capacity, it needs to be treated and financed as a full european body with all of the delegated prosecutors. the european anti—fraud office (olaf) needs to be stronger. we need to find the beneficial owners. we also need to look into how the european money can be spent more carefully, commissioner. let’s start with this pandemic, let’s look at all of the funds and all of the support that the union is providing for these member states. whoever cheats and lies and steals, taking advantage of a tragedy, is not capable of upholding rule of law and respecting european values. last but not least, let’s enhance national capacities, and this is where the programme can significantly contribute, but the member states must be willing to fight fraud as well, all along with the european institutions, and i truly hope that we will succeed.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank rapporteur kefalogiannis, the other shadow rapporteurs and the other committees for the work they have done in recent months to reach agreement on this regulation which we are voting on tomorrow. an agreement that still leaves us with some of our initial misgivings: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the different starting points of the different countries have not been taken into account, but a one-size-fits-all approach has been imposed, which has often proved to be ineffective. we would have opted for a more concrete and realistic, rather than ideological, view of certain technologies and resources, such as natural gas as an important compostable bridge to achieve climate neutrality, replacing the most polluting sources. however, the increase in resources available to the member states, the involvement of small and mediumsized enterprises, the voluntary nature of transfers from the other cohesion policy funds and the consideration of the economic and social consequences of the transition make the final text of the agreement better than the initial proposal. important areas of the european union will be affected by these transition processes, with repercussions on key sectors of the economy, such as iron, steel and cement. the hope now is for the plans to be presented in the coming months and to be followed up. i would remind you that the european union accounts for only 9% of global emissions, while the united states and china account for 15% and 30% respectively. our territories and our businesses are already paying the ultimate price of the pandemic, suffering from global competition: we therefore avoid imposing stringent restrictions. support and increase their economic and productive capacity; let us protect them on international markets and make sure that the challenge of the ecological and environmental transition is a real opportunity and does not turn into a failure of european policies, with additional costs for citizens and businesses.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already done so. the just transition fund is a good drop in the bucket, at least financially, €17.5 billion for 108 regions is a little more than a symbol. but it's an important building block to the coal phase-out. the jtf also highlights the social dimension of the structural change needed: challenges in education, training, pension issues, job search, energy poverty or infrastructure problems. we can only create a climate-neutral way of producing and living in europe by working together with local social conditions, in and with local authorities and regions. this fund is an important symbol of how we are taking the transition away from fossil fuels seriously - including natural gas - as part of the european green deal. however, a move away from fossil fuels would also be important for all other eu funding instruments.
madam president, the just transition fund is historic and the first key element of the european green deal to ensure a fair socioeconomic transition towards climate neutrality by 2050. we, the socialists and democrats, strengthened the social dimension throughout the negotiation process and ensured a just process in all relevant areas that we defend, including sustainable local mobility, sustainable tourism and energy poverty. we considered it essential to include social infrastructure, such as childcare facilities and those for elderly people, but also training centres for people looking for new skills and jobs. we need to ensure that the paris agreement and the eu climate targets for 2030 and 2050 are achieved in a social and balanced way, so that no one and no region is left behind. congratulations to younous omarjee, the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs.
madam president, the just transition fund, which we are going to vote on during this part-session, responds to a longstanding request from our group to promote the energy transition and move towards a low-carbon society, including in areas which have hitherto been characterised by a heavy reliance on fossil fuels. the fund promotes a strategic regional approach to europe, focusing on the regions most affected by the objectives of combating global warming. the final regulation did not forget, among the heavily carbonated territories, the situation of the islands of the european union, both the outermost regions and the other islands closer to the continent. this is a problem that we have regularly raised with the searica intergroup, and which is really taken into account in article 6 of the regulation that eventually emerged from the trilogues. with an amount almost tripled thanks to the contribution of the recovery plan adopted following the health crisis, the just transition fund will help to achieve the objectives of limiting europe's greenhouse gas emissions, especially in the territories where the energy transition is the most difficult.
madam president, commissioner, i would first of all like to warmly congratulate the rapporteur, mr manolis kefalogiannis, and all the political groups for the efforts made to achieve this result, which many considered impossible at the outset. and yet we have managed to find unity in our committee on positions which were originally very divisive in this european parliament and which we have managed to overcome with intelligence and responsibility, with the valuable support of commissioner ferreira, whom i also want to thank. the result is that we will have €17.5 billion invested in the regions most dependent on fossil fuels for the energy transition. in particular, no fossil fuels such as gas or nuclear energy will be eligible for funding under this fund. in conclusion, i would like to say that this is a real political success for our committee on regional development and, as you said, commissioner, we are putting cohesion...
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, the just transition fund is a fundamental instrument for achieving the climate objectives we have set ourselves, but it is also one of the means that europe has at its disposal for its citizens to recover and to start over after the disastrous economic consequences of the pandemic. there are a few elements in the text which i consider essential to building an economically sustainable future: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. a transition is a gradual change from one condition to another; a just transition means that you want to ensure a smooth transition, taking everyone along towards the goals we have set for ourselves. it has been said: no one should be left behind. and that is why i believe that we must give the greatest attention to young people and women, who have once again been the most affected by the labour emergency, as well as helping small and mediumsized enterprises, which form the backbone of so many parts of our union and have suffered more than others from the pandemic and cannot bear the additional costs. finally, i would like to stress the need to take action in favour of rural areas, so that they too, like urban areas, are affected in a homogeneous way by the transition and to overcome the economic disparity which has unfortunately characterized the union.
i support the just transition fund because it should support climate neutrality in the areas most affected by the transition. this is how we can prevent regional disparities from widening further. the transition towards climate neutrality can only be fair if it is inclusive and puts a particular emphasis on three dimensions: economic cohesion with sustainable growth and green jobs, while respecting the needs of different sectors; social cohesion with a just transition, social justice, understanding of energy poverty and specific needs; and territorial cohesion with an understanding of the different needs of the regions of the european union, in particular island regions. i welcome the compromise that has highlighted the special needs of the islands in this process. i call on member states to allocate sufficient funds for just a just transition of the islands. this instrument will be one of the key elements for achieving our goal of a climate neutral europe by 2050. i congratulate my colleagues on the agreement on performance-based payments and a mechanism to reward green projects as well as the inclusion of social and cultural projects.
madam president, the green deal, the environmental direction of the european union's policy is among the best decisions taken at european level in recent years, because it is not only nature that needs the radical change that this pact will bring, but above all we, the people. we must recognise that there are regions in europe which are highly polluted and which have a particular impact on the health and lives of those who work and live in these areas. i am speaking here in particular of regions where coal mining is the main economic activity. these areas, like the jiu valley in my country, romania, are the ones that will need the most help from the european union, because economic activity has to go in a completely different direction. the local economy will have to find other areas of activity, but above all people will need serious support to re-qualify themselves, to start a new profession, a new career. the just transition fund is necessary for these regions to be able to adapt to environmental policy, so that this transition is not a burden precisely (the president interrupted the speaker) on those who need it most, the coal miners.
member of the commission. – madam president, i want first to thank all the speakers because i noticed that there is a very large consensus that this transition fund really is an important tool to overcome difficult processes, because we are engaged in a great transformation of our economies that affects certain regions more than others. i think this is a tool of solidarity, this is a tool for transformation and this is a tool also for social justice. i think we all have in mind that in the past there have been already transformations and restructurings in regions but that these have not always been handled in a fair and just way, that we had a lot of losers in these regions. this should not be the case this time and it’s right, as many speakers have pointed out, that we will be successful in combating climate change, successful on the transition, if we do not leave anybody behind, if we really are able to enhance these important transitions. i think social problems and climate problems, environmental problems, are very much linked and therefore thank you again very much for the support, and now it’s time for implementing. a last remark. the amount of money was mentioned but this was before the decision on the recovery and resilience, because fundings have to work together, and the esf, the european social fund, also has to be a complementary instrument to the just transition fund, and the recovery and resilience facilities in the national plans – and by the way, 37% has to be dedicated to greening the economy – also have to go together with the implementation of the transition fund.
in writing. the european union hopes to become the first climate-neutral eu bloc by 2050. the green deal is an ambitious set of measures to enable citizens and businesses to make the transition to a green and sustainable economy. in this context, the just transition fund is a key instrument in supporting states and regions in difficulty to achieve climate objectives. the main beneficiary countries are those with a fossil fuel based energy system and where large investments are needed to achieve a carbon neutral economy. the package includes eur 7,5 billion from the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework and eur 10 billion from the recovery facility. with this money, we will be able to create new jobs, more environmentally friendly, but also protect the existing ones. it is imperative that we show solidarity with the most affected regions in europe. in romania, eur 1,95 billion from this fund will be used to help people in mining regions in the energy transition. the just transition fund will help us to create a greener europe and avoid deepening regional disparities.
in writing. the coal industry has been the main force of most economic activities in counties such as gorj or hunedoara, which together concentrate 90% of the romanian workforce in this sector. the effects of successive crises - economic or climate - and the high proportion of people employed in polluting industries in these counties, call for an integrated economic conversion, supported by packages of social measures. economic diversification and conversion will be possible, including through the just transition fund (jtf). this new financial instrument under cohesion policy will ensure a fair and realistic transition for citizens and workers living in these regions. the fifg will support a wide range of activities that will enable investment in smes, research, innovation, green and renewable technologies, smart and sustainable mobility, social inclusion, career re-training and labour market inclusion. although the european parliament supported the eligibility of funding also for natural gas projects, the council unfortunately did not support this. however, the financing of natural gas projects can still be achieved through other structural funds such as the erdf. we need to ensure that the transition to a green economy is fair, respecting the principle that 'no one is left behind'.
in writing. the just transition fund is the first instrument of the european green deal that will allow us to decarbonise europe starting with the most polluting regions, which will also have to make the biggest effort in the transition to a zero greenhouse gas economy. it is regrettable that the €40 billion budget proposed by the european commission was reduced to only €17.5 billion in the council, and i stress the importance of securing additional funding from the union's own resources system in the future, such as the revenue generated by the plastic tax, the fair taxation of the big digital giants or the resources that will be generated by the future emissions trading system. last but not least, the european union must guarantee the socioeconomic conversion of the regions concerned and at the same time ensure that sustainable jobs are created at least at the level of those that will be eliminated with the closure of mines and large polluting industries.
in writing. this fund is an attempt to support the ecological transition in the member states. i regret, however, that the council has drastically reduced its budget compared with the proposals of the commission and parliament. the agreed eur 17,5 billion is insufficient to cover the socio-economic needs of the energy paradigm shift, therefore i consider that the possibility of supplementing the budget in 2024 should be considered on the basis of article 3 (3) on resources and article 5 on the green compensation mechanism of the regulation. it is vital to avoid the economic and demographic desertification of traditional coal basins, such as the jiu valley in romania. so i call for special attention to be given to mitigating the impact in countries that rely on fossil fuels. in this context, i draw attention to the risk of a multi-speed transition and, as a consequence, of widening the gap between eu regions. a just transition mechanism beyond 2027 is needed to support affected regions in an effective and sustainable way. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the committee on energy, research and technology,
madam president, commissioner, i believe that one of the greatest achievements of the european union is that we can guarantee our citizens the freedom to move and to find better paid work in another country. but beyond these great successes, there are a number of problems that the covid-19 pandemic has brought to light, and that is that cross-border workers, posted workers and seasonal workers are the most exposed to the vulnerabilities that our societies are going through, precisely because they come from a country where almost four million of our citizens have chosen to spend the rest of their lives in another state, benefiting from other facilities. i think it's extremely important that we guarantee everyone the rights that our legislation has. it is vital that the european labour authority starts its work as soon as possible because we have a set of responsibilities towards these citizens. every european citizen must feel safe at work, social security must be guaranteed, and the european union will be strong and give a signal of safety for every citizen when our rules are fully applied by every state.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me reiterate that the commission has been a long-standing supporter of the fight against hiv and will remain on the frontline. the covid-19 pandemic has taught us yet again the importance of multilateral partnerships in tackling global challenges. the world must draw lessons and be better prepared for future pandemics but also address ongoing global health challenges. the european union is notably committed in this context to supporting the strengthening of health systems and universal health coverage everywhere. and this will be at the heart of the global health summit co-organised by the commission later this week. we are very glad to be able to count on the support of this house for the next steps.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the right of information of the parliament regarding the ongoing assessment of the national recovery and resilience plans (2021/2703(rsp)). i should like to inform members that this debate is foreseen with one round of political group speakers. i should also like to remind members that for all debates of this part—session there will be no catch—the—eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted. furthermore, as during the last part—sessions, remote interventions from our liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, commissioners, honourable members, the covid-19 pandemic caused a once-in-a-generation crisis with deep social and economic impacts, which are likely to leave a mark on our societies for years to come. the eu designed some emergency instruments, like the sure, and in the meantime the eu institutions have designed tools that are expected to ensure that recovery will be robust, sustainable, inclusive and fair. time is pressing. the pandemic hit europe back in the beginning of 2020, one year and a half ago. we have come a long way since an agreement on the biggest ever multiannual financial framework and on an unprecedented recovery instrument, next generation eu, was reached in july last year. these two instruments, amounting to more than eur 1.8 trillion over the next seven years, are endowed with ambitious climate and digital targets and have a very strong social focus, addressing challenges to employment, sustainability, resilience and competitiveness through reforms and investments. the rrf (recovery and resilience facility) is a key element of the next generation eu. it was built together by the council, the parliament and the commission. it is based on a strong agreement reached in december last year. this is the beginning of a long journey which the parliament, the council and the commission will make together with each and every member state. the regulation reflects many elements that are important for both parliament and the council, such as the six pillars, european added value, the reference to the european pillar of social rights, which is particularly important for the portuguese presidency, and also the rights of information. the commission will have to properly take these elements into account in its swift assessment of the plans, while the other two institutions will play a key role in ensuring transparency and accountability through regular exchanges with the commission, all the way up to 2026. the commission has already received and shared with the parliament and the council several recovery plans. it is now up to the commission to assess them and keep us informed on the result of its analysis in a prompt but proportionate way. we understand the enormous challenge for the commission to assess thoroughly and consistently 27 plans, sometimes featuring thousands of pages, and to do that as soon as possible within the timeline provided by the regulation. for this reason, the council is as eager as the parliament to understand how the commission assessment of the plans proceeds. we should, however, all be aware of the risk of slowing down the process and pre-empting the quality and horizontal consistency of the assessments if our request for information arrives too early in the process. the council expects the first official updates by the commission on the assessment of the plans in the context of the preparation of the june ecofin. the council also stands ready to adopt the first rrps (recovery and resilience plans) in june. indeed, once the commission adopts its proposals for draft council implementing decisions, which will be public, the council will do its utmost to adopt them as soon as possible to make sure that part of the pre-financing can start reaching at least some member states before the end of the summer. european citizens and firms are waiting for the rrf. we have to bring together quality and speed and deliver this instrument.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for today’s opportunity to exchange with the european parliament on the implementation of the recovery and resilience facility (rrf). as of today, 18 member states have submitted their plans. the commission has two months to perform the assessment, during which we will be guided by the assessment criteria of the regulation and by our common goal to deliver high—quality plans. the recovery and resilience facility regulation includes a number of important provisions to ensure the involvement of the european parliament during the implementation of the facility. the commission fully understands and supports the need for transparency and scrutiny of the recovery and resilience plans. the commission is committed to ensuring maximum transparency with the parliament during this process, as foreseen in the regulation. for instance, the recovery and resilience dialogue, which took place last week for the first time, will be an important central forum for the commission to exchange with the parliament. in addition, the parliament has initiated a working group on the scrutiny of the rrf, which has met three times until now. the commission is committed to contributing actively to the working group by providing necessary information to the parliament. for instance, the commission has participated in two meetings so far, one on the overall assessment framework and one on the digital dimension, and other meetings are scheduled in the coming weeks. as foreseen in the regulation, the commission shares the national recovery and resilience plans simultaneously with the parliament and the council, in the languages we receive them in, without delay. when translations from member states are available, the commission commits to transmit those as well, provided the relevant member state agrees. the commission also commits to provide a summary of the reforms and investments of the submitted plans if and when the commission adopts the proposal for a council implementing decision. this will provide you with more structured information. the commission fully understands the need of the parliament to ensure proper democratic oversight and parliamentary scrutiny during the implementation of the facility. this was an important element of the negotiations between co—legislators a few months ago, where the commission supported the achievement of a fair balance. the commission is willing to orally share its findings from the overall reading of the plans, for instance with respect to green and digital targets, as well as the social components of the plans submitted. other aspects based on the overall reading can also be discussed within the context of that dialogue. at the same time, the rrf regulation, as agreed between parliament and council, does not foresee the preparation of a preliminary assessment of individual plans. for the rrf implementation to be successful, broad ownership and support is crucial. the regulation requires member states to provide a summary of the national consultation process and the commission is strongly encouraging their involvement in interactions with all member states. the active involvement of stakeholders will be vital throughout all stages of the implementation process. the submission of the national recovery plans is only the first step. i welcome the letter that some of you have addressed to commissioner paolo gentiloni and myself, supporting us on this front. regarding the delegated acts on the recovery and resilience scoreboard and on the methodology for reporting social expenditure, the commission will assure the parliament’s involvement, in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement of 2016 between our institutions. the commission is currently drawing up these acts and will, in the coming weeks, discuss them at a technical level with the member states’ experts in the presence of observers from both the council and the parliament in line with the agreed process. the commission will also discuss the delegated acts with the european parliament’s rrf working group. the commission is committed to the swift adoption of the delegated acts, well before the deadline of december 2021 foreseen by the regulation. we aim to be faster than this and allow for an earlier adoption even if it will be more likely to be after the summer recess than before it. to conclude, the commission is fully committed to continue close cooperation with the european parliament in the coming weeks and months.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. our answer is correct, it is solidarity. the coronavirus pandemic has cost many lives, required a lot of healthcare, and caused great economic damage, with a seven percent economic decline last year. we will only answer that if we act together. we're in a boat. nextgenerationeu is the answer. this is the european solidarity behind it, and we all want this 750 billion euro package to succeed. the framework conditions for our epp group are clear. firstly, we want to invest in the future, not in the past. especially cross-border, hydrogen, electricity, 5g. secondly, we want to bring together solidarity and responsibility. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. thirdly, we want to make it clear as the european union that everyone is involved in the preparation of these programmes, that it is not just a few officials at the level of heads of state ministries who decide how the funds are spent, but that all mayors, regional representatives, everyone is involved in the use of these funds, that it is an inclusive process that ensures that the reform plan is implemented. and we want the european flag to be visible. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. that's what we're trying to achieve. and that is what we have to assess now. unfortunately, the budgetary legislator and the budgetary control institution, the european parliament, have not been adequately involved in the decisions taken so far. the precondition for proper control is transparency. and that transparency has not yet been achieved. that is what the colleagues in the relevant committees are expressing, unfortunately. at the end of the day, it is not just administrative, bureaucratic processes that must be used to evaluate whether programmes are good. it must be political processes. we must have elected representatives to discuss whether the programmes are useful, whether they are moving europe forward, whether they are adding european value. the european parliament is the only institution with democratic legitimacy at european level, and the commission is based on confidence in this house of the people, the european parliament. there is a risk that trust will be lost a bit because cooperation, because transparency is not there at the moment. and that is why the resolution is necessary this week, and i would like to thank very much valdis dombrovskis and paolo gentiloni for the openness they have shown in taking up the issues, in taking up the proposals that parliament is now putting forward with the resolution, that this can be dropped in a few days and we can have full transparency. this is the good cooperation we want to see, and we hope that the answer will be the right one, namely to practice solidarity in europe, with full respect for the institution of the european parliament.
the european union took a historic step almost a year ago by approving the recovery and resilience mechanism, which involves the disbursement of eur 672 billion in loans and grants. it is the oxygen that so many workers need, so many companies, so many self-employed, so many young people and so many social services that are supporting, at this moment, those who are most affected by the pandemic. i think our duty here is to get that money to the people who need it as soon as possible, it's a big responsibility that we have on our backs. of course we want transparency and good cooperation between the institutions, because loyalty, transparency and accountability are always in the interests of citizens and democracy; however, i would not like to think that some in this house are using this debate to try to re-introduce macro-conditionality and austerity criteria through the back door. if they are really so interested in this plan, i would be more concerned about pressing the heads of government and their parties to get parliamentary ratification of the mechanism through, so as not to have the future of this fund hijacked. it is an emergency fund because the situation is an emergency, perhaps not for some here, but for millions of families and businesses in our countries. i would ask you to be frank, so that the demand for transparency does not appear to be an alibi for other purposes: let us not create a non-existent confrontation between the commission and parliament over some interests. there are times when we even seem to go against the grain of this kind of debate: when citizens are asking us to speed up the pace so that the money from the fund arrives, no one would understand that we would now get into a dispute between the institutions that would delay the process, that could only fuel euroscepticism and disaffection for europe. let us use this recovery fund to win the confidence of the european people. for the european institutions to function, institutional loyalty is necessary: i have confidence in the commissioners and the police stations, in the people's party, in the socialists, in the liberals, who are working with seriousness and rigor on the recovery plans; i have no reason to doubt any of them, not even executive vice-president dombrovskis. we cannot allow the internal pressures of some groups to call into question the management of this crisis, which is a very different management from that of 2008. we all want our political priorities to be reflected, that is normal: we, the socialist and democratic group, have fought for the introduction of the criteria of environmental sustainability, social justice, equality between men and women, and we have done so openly in the negotiations, not with any other kind of delaying tactics; we have also insisted on including the social indicators which ensure that no one is left behind, and i think the commission has understood this very well. the socialists and democrats will always defend the responsibility of parliament in economic governance, that the funds are used to undertake deep reforms that make the european union adapt to the challenges and the challenges it has at the moment, of course yes. i am glad that in the negotiation of this resolution we have finally reached a balanced agreement. the socialists and democrats will accept all debates, all of them. we will continue to talk and negotiate, but we will not be distracted from what really matters, which is to push for ratification in the national parliaments, and we are already working on the adoption of the technical criteria for social spending. i understand that some of you, ladies and gentlemen, have become nervous when you hear the council say that we must go beyond the logic of gdp to think about people - of course, we social democrats have been saying this for a long time - but times are changing and citizens are demanding a different response to the crisis. i imagine that you will have become more nervous after reading the conclusions of the informal european council in porto, but what we need is collective leadership, institutional loyalty and the ability to forge majorities because here, without consensus, no initiative, none, will flourish, and great personal ambitions can easily be swept away.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr executive vice-president, mr commissioner, you mentioned that more than half of the member states had sent their investment and reform plans, which will allow them to access the european recovery money. as you are analysing these plans, can you tell us whether they meet the conditions we voted for here in february last? we have confidence in the commission and we know that it will evaluate these plans in the light of the european objectives. however, this confidence does not exclude parliamentary scrutiny. it is our role as the budgetary authority to check that the recovery money goes to the right projects and the right reforms; but this parliamentary control is extremely difficult in the present situation. put yourself in the place of the members of the european parliament: each of them has taken the time to read several hundred pages in the original language, but this is not enough. i am, for example, a romanian, but i am also a member of the european parliament, and i am interested, beyond the romanian plan, in the italian plan, the hungarian plan, the danish plan and so on, because it is also the added value of our parliament to ensure the european dimension of this plan. this requires a global view; but we do not have it here in parliament. but the european commission, in a spirit of genuine institutional cooperation, could give it to us. you have been in contact with the ministries for several months already, so you know what is in these plans, you have seen the drafts that you have commented on. what we're asking is that you share your analysis with us. the idea that the exercise of parliamentary control delays the process is not true and has no place here. we are not asking you to do things specifically for parliament, but simply to share this information in the spirit of good cooperation. mr executive vice-president, we are not here in an institutional fight; we are here to fight together for the success of this recovery plan, because for many citizens there is no parliament, commission or council; there is europe. and when we talk about europe, in the markets or in contact with companies or associations, it is to us, the european parliamentarians, that the citizens ask what is happening and what has been decided at european level. so we must ensure together that these plans also have the dimension of this great european project, beyond the objectives of each member state and each region to finance their reform projects. that is where the complementarity between parliament and the commission lies, that is what we have been asking for since we negotiated this regulation, and that is simply what we are asking you for now: share with us the information you have and without the desire, mr minister, to delay the process. the information is there and if it is shared, we can all do our part.
madam president, madam vice-president of the commission, the day before the world health organisation declared that we were facing a global pandemic, the european commission presented the communication 'a new industrial strategy for europe'. the commission therefore proposed improving the resilience of its value chains, tackling dependence on critical technological resources from third countries or helping to end the lack of maturity of our smes. if all this was important before, now it is simply critical. to respond to this situation, we now have exceptional instruments in the member states, which must make the most of the €750 billion in the recovery and resilience facility, for example, of which 20% should be allocated to investment in the digital domain. and the communication now being presented proposes new actions which are certainly valuable - for example, reinforcing the importance of smes in value chains or creating partnerships to develop processors and semiconductors for cloud computing - but the communication alone is not enough. if we really want to contribute, from the european union and the member states, to strengthening the global competitiveness of our industry, we must increase our industrial ambition to the level of our environmental ambition.
madam president, i welcome the fact that the revised industrial strategy focuses on the revitalisation of smes, which are the backbone of the european union's economy, and on the digitalisation of economies. in romania, we have 672,440 microenterprises, with one million employees. medium-sized enterprises number 8 902, small enterprises 48 738, and large enterprises only 1 941. the 'horeca' industry, or enterprises in the transport, tourism, cultural and, above all, creative sectors, have been among the most affected by the covid-19 crisis and it is therefore vital that they enjoy real support from us, from europe. despite the difficulties generated by covid-19, i believe that we are on the right track, and the reality in romania confirms this. with my country's economy - we just got the data an hour ago - growing in the first quarter by 2.8%, well above economists' expectations, we have the fastest economic recovery in history, in response to the worst economic crisis in the last hundred years (the president interrupted the speaker). we all have a responsibility to come to the aid of our citizens' interests, and through this strategy, we must ensure that we give them a better (the president interrupted the speaker) and more stable life in our common europe.
in writing. – i regret and mourn civilian victims – especially children – from both sides. the suffering endured by innocent people has to stop. this complex situation becomes even harder to solve as long as a notorious terrorist organisation is involved. hamas, included on the eu terrorism blacklist, only cares about itself and its power and control over the palestinian population. europe should condemn hamas and islamic jihad for the deaths and devastation seen in israel and in gaza. their only goal – to destroy the state of israel – keeps the middle east in a constant state of war, and iran’s involvement in financing the terrorist organisations attacking israel is contributing to a very dangerous and bloody situation. meanwhile, the israeli army, in its efforts to protect its own population, is doing its utmost to avoid harming palestinian civilians, even warning them on cell phones ahead of military intervention. unfortunately this still isn’t enough to avoid the loss of palestinian civilians’ lives. hamas and islamic jihad commit the double war crime of murdering israeli civilians and using the palestinians as human shields. the root causes of this conflict are complex, but as long as the terrorist organisations are not dismantled, peace, democracy and economic development in the palestinian territories are unachievable.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already done so. in may 2020, in the midst of the pandemic, the commission wanted to cut the single eu culture programme sharply compared to its own proposals from 2018. we have now achieved an increase in resources - that is good. but the programme is also in danger of becoming a victim of its success over the next seven years, as it is also massively underfunded at €2.2 billion. we need not only european added value in cultural exchange, but also more cultural exchange in general. this is the sector that has suffered the most during the pandemic. studies show a decline in all crossborder cultural productions. there's a lot to catch up on. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos is not jeopardised. this is not a charity moment, as some still believe, but it is about the real diversity of our everyday lives, which should be expressed in artistic forms. another new feature is that media freedom projects can apply for funding. the european media landscape is under threat as never before. attacks on journalists are now taking place in many member states. so let us look ahead and also use the new emphasis, including the opportunities from other programmes, for more european cultural exchange and for democratic, artistic dialogue beyond europe.
mr president, there is almost complete political consensus in the european parliament from left to right on the supplementary budget for creative europe. this may come as a surprise, but it's a good thing. producing and consuming will become less and less important in the future. this forces us to think about meaning and to invest in culture and education. europe can and must distinguish itself in the world by stimulating the imagination, stimulating creativity and developing judgement and, therefore, good taste. so there is still much more to be invested in culture. but we must ensure that the current limited budget reaches the people for whom it is intended. the overhead currently for some projects is over 12.5%. cut the red tape and let culture flourish.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it was a really long negotiation on the creative europe programme. but we can be proud of the result! we have secured eur 2.2 billion for the cultural and creative sectors, and this is the highest amount ever spent on culture in the eu. this is much more than a symbolic recognition of culture. we will be able to fund more projects and help the sector recover from the impact of the covid-19 pandemic. because the cultural and creative sectors are one of the sectors that has been hit the hardest by the pandemic. we have been able to achieve many of our demands as the european parliament. for example, we have succeeded in persuading member states to recognise the music sector, whose specific challenges have not been properly addressed. this significantly improved programme is a first step for our cultural and creative sectors to prepare for the challenges of digitalisation. the media part of the programme also helps the media to adapt to structural change. for the first time, money is also flowing into news media to promote media literacy, pluralism, freedom of the press and quality journalism. the lux audience film award is also worth mentioning, and it has found its place, and we are now sharing it with all europeans. at this point, i would also like to ask all colleagues to watch and rate the films online and to contribute their part. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. i think that with this programme we are showing the cultural and creative sectors that we are firmly on their side, that we are putting cultural policy at the heart of european policy. i would like to end with a quote from jean monnet, who said that if he were to start again with europe and rebuild europe, he would start with culture. i think we should do this too!
the commission has already done so. we must admit that we owe our identity to culture, and mrs verheyen has spoken very well about this. europe has been shaped for thousands of years by the cultural exchanges between the different peoples who have lived and still live here. every literary or art history shows us different cultural influences. the romanian culture has influenced european culture through brâncuși, enescu, the french or the german culture have strongly shaped the other european cultures. we are, in fact, a network of interconnected cultures. it is therefore important that we recognise the importance of the creative industries and provide specific support programmes for them. the funding available to culture under the creative europe programme is still not sufficient. especially not after the creative industry was forced to shut down for a year and a half. the possibility of combining these funds with funds from other programmes nevertheless gives this sector, whose importance is not sufficiently recognised, an opportunity.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the pandemic on the cultural sector and the creative sector. all those who are directly or indirectly involved in the visual, performing, performing arts, and so many others, have all, in one way or another, been badly affected. without artistic and cultural activity we have a society that is poorer. the history of europe is one with artistic and cultural developments. we have grown up as a people, as a community, bound together in a rich cultural history for which europe is a class act. and just as we cannot underestimate the cultural contribution to our history, we cannot underestimate the importance of the media in safeguarding and strengthening democracy. culture has value, art gives us identity, the media has a role to play in democratic life. these should not be footnotes in the actions taken in the recovery from covid. these professionals should, by right, have their own chapter. creative europe is therefore excellent news for the cultural and creative sectors in europe. we can now provide substantial funds for these sectors. many countries, not least malta, are also looking to eurovision tonight. the expression of a single sector of talent involving so many people and creative people. we need to support everyone facing major challenges due to the pandemic. the artists also represent the soul and spirit of europe, and we must give them every support.
mr president, i warmly welcome this initiative and i’d like to thank commissioner gabriel for her great work in this area, as well as colleagues in the council, and especially for doubling the budget to eur 2.4 billion. the culture and creative industries contribute about 4.2% to eu gdp, employ up to 7.5 million people, but crucially lost at least 30% of revenues during lockdown. thankfully, this lockdown is now coming to an end, but it has shown us how important the creative industries and sport are for our wellbeing – physical, emotional and social wellbeing – it can’t be overstated. the mff and next generation eu include several instruments specifically designed to support the cultural creative sectors. the eu needs to stand up for the creative sector at the heart of europe and encourage member states to accelerate recovery and provide a platform of safe reopening in the coming months, so that we can all become rock and roll kids again as u2 sang in when love comes to town. so let love come to the towns and cities of europe this summer.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i would like to thank you once again for this opportunity to discuss the adoption of the creative europe programme. this is a very important moment for the world of culture and the creative sector, which is looking forward to this adoption. we're gonna have to move fast now. i can confirm the commission's ambition to ensure that the first calls are issued quickly and that the first financing arrives before the end of the year. i welcome your constructive approach today, but also throughout our negotiations. the programme, as adopted today, is the result of a very positive and fruitful collaboration between our three institutions, parliament, the commission and the council. without your support, we could not have achieved what we have today. i take this opportunity to thank you and to say that we will continue to create new synergies for more positive effects. 'synergy', i emphasise this word, because now it is up to us, it is our common challenge, to transform this pretty word into something operational, concrete and adequate. i am of course referring here to the link with the other programmes: the new culture cluster in the 'horizon europe' programme, the new kic with the 'european institute of innovation and technology on the cultural and creative sectors', erasmus+, digital europe, investeu, ... now it is up to us to develop synergies that can provide adequate solutions to the needs of the sector, because there is a whole range of eu programmes that can be mobilised to support the cultural and creative sectors, especially in these difficult times. count on me, in all modesty, to continue to work hand in hand and in good faith, to ensure that throughout the seven years of the 'creative europe' life, the programme will remain in line with the needs of the cultural and creative sector.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on 19 may. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. the creative europe programme is the main european union programme supporting culture, the creative industries and the audiovisual sector. the total budget of the creative europe programme will be eur 2.2 billion over the next seven-year budget period, representing a significant increase in resources. creative europe also offers good opportunities for projects aimed at preserving historical and cultural heritage and for cross-border cooperation, so that a wide range of hungarian organisations and artists can take advantage of this opportunity. the ce programme stands firmly behind the music and performing arts sector, which has been severely damaged by the covid-19 pandemic, the increase in the budget of the ce programme is a clear signal of support for artists, creators and all actors and institutions of cultural life in europe, and an important commitment to preserving europe's cultural and linguistic diversity. it's important that we get this program started as soon as possible. i agree with the second reading of the draft regulation, except for the parts that urge the extension of gender ideology to the programme, which i do not support.
in writing. – for the first time, through creative europe, the news media sector will be supported through the cross-sectoral strand, promoting media literacy, pluralism and media freedom. this is an important milestone in the eu and a good start towards setting up a dedicated permanent eu fund for independent media. news independent media, especially the small, local outlets have been facing enormous challenges posed by illiberal regimes, digital transformation and lately also by the consequences of the covid crisis. during the pandemic, many independent media outlets have lost a great share of their revenues, as advertising income dropped by as much as 80%. hostile governments to a free press have also increased the financial burden on critical independent media. a very eloquent example in this sense is the proposed polish law, seeking to increase advertisement tax, redistributing collected money to state-controlled media. under these circumstances, many independent outlets disappear from the market, as they cannot maintain financial sustainability. independent funding provided from the eu budget is a key necessity for allowing media pluralism to survive the attacks of such regimes. the 2021-2027 creative europe programme is a promising first step towards a permanent instrument that should be established without delay.
mr. president, my dear officer. erasmus+ is one of the european union's most successful programmes. it helps young people to gain access to the labour market, to develop professionally and to have an international perspective. young people who gain experience abroad acquire skills and knowledge that will benefit them in all areas of life. i welcome the new initiatives of the programme, such as the european university network, or the vocational excellence programmes and the new programme elements: language learning, mobility of secondary school pupils and sports exchanges. i hope that the calls will also provide more resources to support traditional national minorities and their languages, which are valuable elements of european culture. hungary has made a major step towards the modernisation of higher education by changing the university model. the foundation structure creates the conditions for improving the competitiveness and international recognition of institutions. all of this will help to open up more opportunities for them to join erasmus or other international university partnerships. the new university model will take its place in the european higher education competition, respond to the challenges of the modern age, and ensure the continuation of the reputation of hungarian universities.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. in the negotiations on the new erasmus+ programme, parliament has shown impressively how much negotiating power it really has if we all in parliament stick together. because that is how we were able to achieve, together with the committee on culture and the committee on budgets, across all the political groups, that the budget for the new programme period could be increased enormously and that we were able to gain another 2.2 billion euros over seven years, in addition to the increased approach, which means that we can now spend over 26 billion euros more on education and training than before. that's almost a doubling. we also pushed for inclusion to get more people to benefit from the programme. the three new initiatives the centres of professional excellence, discovereu, which has been a successful pilot project since 2018, and the european universities can now be appropriately funded as part of the programme. we have also been able to convince the council that vocational training should be given a much greater prominence in the programme and that adult education should also be given a greater prominence. the programme's focus is now on lifelong learning. the plus in erasmus+ is not just a side effect, but is enormously important, because erasmus+ is much more than just an exchange of students. and we will reach far more people in all fields of education with this programme than we have done so far. the implementation of the programmes is now the focus and the next step, and we will be watching closely to see that the content of the programme and the will of the co-legislators is also implemented by the commission. thank you very much and good cooperation.
mr president, education is the most important support the european union can have in promoting european values, in creating a sense of belonging to this political, economic and social fabric, in ensuring a decent living for its inhabitants. erasmus+ is the contribution that we can bring here, at the level of the european union, to the education system, it is another act through which we can contribute to the creation of an education union, which tries to leave no one behind. the aim of the project is to develop a european network of schools and universities, to provide a platform for the exchange of information and best practices in the field of education and training, and to promote the exchange of experience and good practice in the field of education and training. it is important that this tool is known, understood and, above all, used by as many teachers, schools and universities as possible in order to truly create an educational union in europe.
mr president, commissioner mariya gabriel, the pandemic has exposed our vulnerabilities, but it has also given us the opportunity to express solidarity, which has led young people to help older people with supplies, to help them learn how to use digital equipment, to provide hot meals to the homeless, or to build or repair homes in poor communities. the new generation is the quintessence of the european solidarity corps, a pan-european network strengthened by recent negotiations and proving that it is civic spirit that helps us succeed in building a better world. we can cultivate this civic spirit a lot more. i propose that each member state should complement and extend the european programme by setting up a national solidarity body. so we can develop community engagement and volunteerism and we can put grassroots organizations at the forefront. i have already proposed in romania the establishment of the romanian solidarity and cooperation corps (cresc) and i will continue to encourage the link between the european solidarity corps and this initiative. i hope, commissioner, that you will support this idea in your relations with the member states.
in writing. – when we speak about artificial intelligence and other new technologies and their impact on our democratic societies, the conversation is focused on the dangers and threats. in a way, that’s for a good reason – there is a lot we have to be cautious about: machine learning leading to biased outcomes, infringements on privacy, algorithms that encourage polarisation and division. for that reason, indeed, our regulations should be made very carefully. but what is equally or even more important is to see what the opportunities in ai are. one area where there is tremendous opportunity for artificial intelligence to have a positive impact is the field of education. ai can allow students to learn better by providing differentiated and individualised learning or better access for those who may have visual or hearing impediments. ai can also help teachers by automating routine tasks and allowing teachers to spend more time focused on the students. overall, ai and other new technologies have the potential to make education more efficient, effective and beneficial for all stakeholders involved. so long as the risks are mitigated properly, we should utilise these new technologies for the greater benefit of our society as a whole.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statement addressing the global challenge of covid-19: the effects of the suspension of the wto trips agreement on vaccines, treatment, equipment and production capacity in developing countries (2021/2692 ((rsp)). i would remind the honourable members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, as in previous partsessions, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for your invitation to this very important debate. more than one year since the outbreak of the covid-19 pandemic, the epidemiological situation remains serious, particularly in light of the different variants that have emerged in this context. we all share the same objectives. these are to rapidly develop and manufacture safe and effective therapeutics and vaccines and to distribute them equitably across the world. on 25 march, the members of the european council highlighted that to overcome the current crisis, it was essential to accelerate the production, delivery and deployment of vaccines. work on a vaccine-sharing mechanism must complement and support covax. it is worth noting here that the european union is a major exporter of vaccines to the rest of the world and a significant contributor to the covax facility. on the issue of a waiver of the trips agreement, as recently mentioned by presidents charles michel and ursula von der leyen, the european union is willing to discuss any concrete proposals on intellectual property rights for vaccines. regarding the announcement by the united states, we need to have more information to understand what the united states is planning to propose. it seems that the us proposal is different from the proposal made by india and south africa. however, i wish to reiterate that in the current situation, speed and manufacturing capacity are the top issues. this is why, in the short term, the european union’s priority is to increase the production of covid-19 vaccines to achieve global vaccination. the eu considers that the trips agreement and the intellectual property system are part of the solution. they reflect a careful balance between protecting intellectual property on the one hand and promoting widespread access to medicines and healthcare on the other hand. that is why we should concentrate on harnessing the flexibility that already exists in the trips agreement. in particular, the european union is ready to support a statement that reaffirms the agreement’s flexibility. such a statement might confirm that, during a pandemic, the obligation to negotiate with the rights-holder can be put aside and the compulsory licence can cover exports to all countries that lack manufacturing capacity. moreover, the european union considers that the wto and trips framework offer many other possibilities that will help to attain our objectives. increasing transparency of supply chains to tackle bottlenecks, streamlining customs procedures and eliminating export restrictions are some examples of these possibilities. these elements are also included in the initiative by the european union and its co-sponsors on trade and health. the initiative aims to establish a global cooperation scheme to remove unnecessary barriers to trade in times of health crises. other effective and pragmatic approaches to support affordable and equitable access to covid-19 diagnostics, vaccines and treatments include patent-pooling, licensing initiatives and knowledge/vaccine-sharing platforms. collaboration on therapeutics at global level is also crucial. the eu will intensify its cooperation with lower and middle-income countries to strengthen their health systems and healthcare workforce. finally, i would like to stress that we remain committed to opening a comprehensive dialogue in the wto and other international fora.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, more than a year ago the covid-19 pandemic began to sweep through the world. today, thanks to the strong and coordinated eu response, we can say with cautious optimism that we are turning the corner in the fight against this devastating pandemic in europe. but europe’s responsibilities do not end at our borders. we have always been mindful of the need for global solidarity, and we have demonstrated our solidarity with meaningful action because no one is safe until everyone is safe. so what has the european union done so far? first, we have spearheaded research and innovation for the development of safe and effective vaccines. second, we have supported industry to increase production of vaccines and address the main supply-chain bottlenecks. third, we have exported 50% of our production, more than 200 million doses, to 45 countries. fourth, we have massively financed the covax facility and shared our vaccines via covax, up to 67 million doses so far, as well as bilaterally. team europe is working to significantly ramp up donations through covax in the second half of 2021. vaccine-sharing announced by eu member states amounts to 11.1 million doses of which 9 million is shared via covax. so it is very clear that we have led the way, but as the fight is far from over more can and must be done. at this crucial moment, universal and fair access to vaccines and treatments must be the global community’s number one priority. the single most effective way to achieve this is clear. we need to continue to ramp up production. we need to share vaccines wider and faster, and we need to make vaccines affordable. indeed this process is already underway. global production of vaccines is rapidly increasing. it is estimated that 10 billion doses of covid vaccines will be produced in 2021. we have more than 200 licensing and technology agreements between pharmaceutical companies in place as we speak, but we need to do even more. in particular, we need to ensure vaccination of the most vulnerable populations in the low and middle-income countries at affordable cost. the dire situation that india is going through besides being a terrible humanitarian crisis is also having an impact on global vaccination since indian production is now focused on accelerating domestic rollout. so the eu has a renewed responsibility as a major producer and exporter of vaccines to ensure global access, especially for the most vulnerable. the rules-based global trading system can and should contribute towards this goal. we have been involved in various discussions at the world trade organization. the commission intends to present soon a proposal to the wto focusing on three components. first, trade facilitation and disciplines on export restrictions. second, expansion of production, including through pledges by vaccine producers and developers, and third, clarification and facilitation of the trips agreement flexibilities relating to compulsory licences. so let me explain each of these three elements. our first aim is to commit to limit the application of export restrictions and keep supply chains open. vaccine-producing countries should be ready to export a fair share of their domestic production. it should also be clear that no restrictions of any kind are applied to supplies to the covax facility, and no measures should be taken to limit trade in inputs for vaccine and therapeutics production. our second objective is that governments should strongly encourage vaccine manufacturers and developers to expand production and ensure adequate supply of vaccines at production cost to low and middle-income countries during the pandemic. such actions could include licensing agreements providing for a sharing of know—how, tiered pricing, contract manufacturing, and new investments in manufacturing capacities in developing countries. we expect all vaccine producers and developers to make concrete pledges that support increased supplies to vulnerable developing countries. this is the best way to speed up supply in the eu and globally, and this is the best way to tackle new variants of the virus. the third element relates to intellectual property. while voluntary licences are more effective as an instrument to facilitate expansion of production and sharing of know—how, compulsory licences are a perfectly legitimate tool in the context of a pandemic. it is therefore important for each wto member to ensure that its legal framework on compulsory licensing is effective, and for the international community to facilitate such actions. this would entail wto members agreeing on the following. first, the pandemic is a circumstance of national emergency and therefore the requirement to negotiate with the rights holder may be waived. second, when a compulsory licence is granted to a manufacturer ready to provide vaccines at manufacturing cost, this should be supported by setting out a remuneration for the patent-holder that entails no profit. and third, the compulsory licence could cover any exports to countries that lack manufacturing capacity, including via covax. beyond these proposals the commission stands ready to fully support the wto director-general in her efforts to ensure equitable global access to covid-19 vaccines and therapeutics. we are also open to examining other options as long as they contribute to the objective of expanding production and facilitating an equitable access to vaccines and therapeutics. in this respect, the eu is ready to engage constructively to examine the extent to which proposals related to a targeted and time-limited waiver from intellectual property rights contribute towards these objectives. in any event it may take some time to increase the production in developing countries with available capacity. we therefore plan to launch an initiative to help scale-up vaccine manufacturing in africa. in the meantime, the commission calls on countries which are already capable of producing vaccines and have vaccinated a large part of their population to follow the eu example and immediately start to share their production with other countries in need. to conclude, i reiterate: ramping up production and sharing vaccines wider, faster and at affordable cost is the single most effective way to fight the pandemic in all regions of the world in this critical moment.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, it’s clear that more – no, much more – has to be done to fight corona in all corners of the world, and it needs to be done quickly. and if we zoom in on the eu, i can see a region that has exported almost as many vaccines as it has kept for its own use. one to keep, one for elsewhere in the world. if all developed countries had applied that same approach, we would now be further advanced in the global fight against this awful pandemic. the epp wants vaccines to reach arms in the eu and around the world, as many and as quickly as possible, and for that we need a whole range of measures. we need barriers to the exportation of materials and vaccines to be lifted, especially by countries like the uk and the us. donations must be increased. production, it has been said, needs to be ramped up drastically, here but also in africa, asia, latin america. and the eu should in particular help empower africa to produce vaccines itself. and, linked to this, the knowledge needed to produce vaccines needs to be transferred and shared. in our opinion, this will get vaccines into arms quicker than the current debate, focusing only on the waiving of patents. but it will require efforts and contributions from all – governments, private partners, ngos and industry. and to industry, i would like to underline that it cannot in this crisis be business as usual. in this global emergency your first duty is not to shareholders, but to humanity.
the european union has a major challenge on its shoulders today: to ensure the global supply of safe and effective vaccines so that the whole planet can wake up to a world free of the virus. we've said it many times: health and the economy will not be safe until everyone is vaccinated. it is true that the export of 200 million vaccines from european soil to 45 countries is an example of european solidarity, unlike the united states, which has retained all its production, but it is not enough. under no circumstances can we accept the state of the global vaccination plan: most countries with fewer resources are at risk of not immunising their populations until 2024. at the moment, pharmaceutical companies are far from ensuring the necessary manufacturing: doses administered to date exceed 1 billion, but more than 12 billion doses would be needed by this year; covax mechanism deliveries are also far from its initial target of distributing 2 billion doses before the end of 2021. in view of the gravity of the situation, we call on the european commission to support the temporary suspension of patents at the world trade organisation to ensure the global distribution of vaccines. of course we recognize the role that intellectual property has played throughout history as a driver of economic progress, but the extraordinary circumstances of a pandemic that has killed over three million people and driven tens of millions into poverty require extraordinary solutions. it's time to decide where we want to go down in history, because siding with the pharmaceutical monopolies in a pandemic simply means allowing many people to die when they could actually be saved. the rise of 'pandemic nationalism' has exposed the shortcomings of international trade, investment and intellectual property rules. the european union has an obligation to lead an immediate international response to address the knowledge, production and distribution problems currently hampering access to vaccines. this is not just a matter of temporarily suspending patents: at the same time, voluntary licensing agreements must be promoted, global intellectual property rights rules must be adapted to the needs of the fight against pandemics, all obstacles to trade along the value chain for vaccines and their components must be removed, and a public/private partnership must be established to ensure the distribution of vaccines and inputs. we know that the road to achieving global vaccination is arduous. in the process now under way in the world trade organisation, europe must take the lead on this issue. let us remember nelson mandela during his 41st birthday when pharmaceutical companies tried to stop south africa from importing cheaper life-saving medicines in the midst of the aids pandemic; mandela was clear: the right to public health cannot be held hostage to commercial interests. faced with the risk of 'vaccine apartheid', the european union has the opportunity to restore hope to millions of people whose countries cannot guarantee the right to health and life. this is both a humanitarian and a geostrategic imperative. the time has come to give a boost to the fight against the pandemic. conservatives and liberals in this house would do well to abandon their obstructionist attitude: if we increase our commitment to global vaccination, countries and citizens on all continents will never forget where the european union stood in this moment of need.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, joe biden wants to lift the patents on vaccines. i'm good with it. i don't know if this is the solution to our current problems, but the us president's proposal has at least the virtue of reviving the debate on the access to vaccination of all countries. this is a debate we started when we proposed the creation of the covax mechanism. the figures are staggering. in the richest countries, one in four people are now vaccinated. that's one in 500 people in the poorest countries. so imagine: in a 700-seat full house like this, only two people would be vaccinated, if we refer to the proportions in the poorest countries. so the real question is: what are we doing to make it easier for everyone to get vaccines? unfortunately, joe biden's proposal does not provide an answer to this question in a timely manner, i.e. it is not an immediate answer, because the lifting of patents is a long and complex process. then, we need to provide them with a vaccine recipe and engineers who know how to prepare that recipe to produce it, we need to train those engineers, we need to have the means to produce the vaccines, and we need assembly lines and refrigerators. a real solution to help others is to export our doses now, right now, and that's what europe is doing. half of our vaccine production goes abroad and the americans can also help us in this effort. europe is also the originator of the covax mechanism. it is the only vaccine solidarity tool in the world and we are the main contributors. we need help to improve the way covax works and that is where the help of the americans and anyone who can contribute is welcome. so, ladies and gentlemen, in the battle for vaccination, europe has nothing to be ashamed of. we must continue to increase production, continue to export our doses to countries that need them and continue to organise global solidarity to ensure that we can distribute them; at the same time, yes, we should start thinking about a derogation from the who agreement on vaccines, since it is the who that makes this decision, because this health crisis is probably not going to be the last. so this process is useful and necessary, but it is not sufficient and, in my view, probably does not respond to the urgency of the moment.
madam president, commissioner, we have a problem. right now, we're talking about a need for vaccine doses across the european union that is far from what we're able to produce right now, because next month starts the fateful six months -- i'd call them -- where the immunity that vaccines are giving right now starts to end, and we also have the 10 percent of people who don't develop antibodies after the vaccine. all of these things, coupled with a chronic and, above all, very widespread shortage of vaccines in the poorest continents -- africa, asia, south america -- will bring about and lead to the emergence of new variants, the emergence of new mutations -- for this reason, and this debate. with patents, with licenses, with the need to remove export restrictions for the essential components in the production of vaccines, if we don't act now, it will be too late, and we will have to deal with other variants, other mutations, and unfortunately, people will suffer.
madam president, mr vice-president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be easily persuaded and let us face the challenge we face with realism and balance: vaccinate the whole world and ensure the health of all. but we know that to make a vaccine, you need more than just the recipe; you need the ingredients, the tools and the technologies to make it. before we discuss intellectual property and patents, let us first consider whether we have the raw materials and the tools to do so. we know that the future will still hold pandemics or health crises. it is not much use, except to receive easy applause, to storm the pharmaceutical companies and look for the enemy at all costs. let us concentrate instead on the need, on the one hand, to make a large public and private investment in research and, on the other, to imagine at the same time new relationships, which hold together the fair remuneration of intellectual property and the need to make available to all, rich and poor countries, the scientific discoveries that can save our lives.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are in a deadly race against time, and the time for the european commission and the european union as a whole to become a global player is now! i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the council. mr president, are you prepared to ensure that the agreements with manufacturing companies include partnerships with countries in the global south? are you prepared to ensure that the agreements we conclude with the producers do not contain clauses which prevent us from sharing surplus products with the world? and can you guarantee that there will be no vaccine recycling markets where money is cut instead of helping people? there must be no taboo! whatever it takes, the hour is now to save lives!
i have to say, madam president, the european community must of course do everything in its power to ensure that the whole world has access to vaccines. but the abolition of patent rights is certainly not an effective means. let us not fool ourselves into thinking that access to patents is a quick fix. we are facing huge bottlenecks in production and in the supply chain, and that is the biggest problem. to give us all access to patents would be like giving a bunch of amateurs in a kitchen the ingredients of a master chef without the recipe. it can only go wrong! without the necessary knowledge and the right production facilities, access to patents simply does not work and we are also ruining the chef's career. by abolishing patent rights, we are undermining the desire of companies to research and develop innovative solutions. we simply cannot afford that. that's not the answer. instead, we should have strengthened the global vaccine programme covax, which is not working optimally today. we must do everything we can to remove export restrictions and ensure that the eu distributes all surplus vaccine doses to the countries most affected. it's solidarity, and it's the best way to get widespread access to vaccines.
madam speaker, the proposal to remove the patents for covid-19 vaccines is being touted as a victory for solidarity over the big bad labs. that's the story we tell our kids, because in reality, this patent-waiver is a false good idea, and there are three reasons for that. first, it is the fruit of hypocrisy. those who are calling for the end of patents today are the same people who yesterday were banning the export of doses to give their people absolute priority. there's nothing easier than appearing generous when you've been served first. the abolition of patents is also illusory. given the difficulty europe has had in building production units to protect a few hundred million citizens, who can believe that in just a few weeks the countries of the south could build production units to serve several billion people? finally, the abolition of patents would be counterproductive. if we change the rules of the game along the way, pharmaceutical companies will no longer accept taking very large investment risks in the long term if they do not see in return the assurance that their inventions will be rewarded by the law. who are our real enemies? the crippling bureaucracy and lack of political courage. when you run a state, you don't have to curb the audacity of the private sector to show solidarity. scientific inventions have always been protected, and this may be the only way for everyone to really benefit from them.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the vaccination campaign in europe, after some initial difficulties, is gaining momentum and the number of people vaccinated is continuing to increase. despite this good news, doctors tell us that no one in the world can feel safe until the entire world's population is vaccinated. it is therefore vital to ensure that everyone is vaccinated. we are witnessing the disaster in some countries and the suffering of innocent people who still have no hope of getting a vaccine, and this is not only unacceptable but also a real threat to the emergence of dangerous variants. i am glad that today in this house, and even among those who were not in favour of this solution, we have heard the same call that we socialists have been making for a long time: the suspension of patents in order to accelerate the mass production of vaccines, which are a precious commodity and a global right. but we must act and act quickly, because it has been more than a year and the citizens have a right to be certain.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! the situation in india and africa is worrying. 280,000 new infections every day in india, over 4.5 million people in africa are infected with corona. we must therefore help urgently, help is urgently needed. we in the european union have helped, and we will continue to help. over 200 million doses of vaccine have already been delivered by the european union to countries outside europe. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that no other region has shown solidarity in the face of the crisis - the pandemic - as we have in the european union. of course, more emergency measures and aid are needed, above all export restrictions must be lifted, production capacity must be increased, delivery processes must be speeded up and, of course, the vaccine must also remain affordable, we still have homework to do. i think it is wrong to abolish patent protection, to provide for compulsory licences or the like. this is not going to solve the problem at all - not in the medium or long term, ladies and gentlemen. without patent protection there will be no innovation, no research in europe. biontech, curevac, the companies that developed the vaccine also - without patent protection, there would have been no development of the vaccine. over 20 years of development work has gone into this new mrna technology. we need a lot more vaccine quickly, but we need to get the levers right, and that's not putting the axe to the patent protection.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, we must lift patents for covid-19 vaccines and, as a matter of urgency, make technology transfers to third countries possible. it is essential to devote scientific and technical, financial and human resources to research and innovation. today, these patents are slowing down the process of expanding production and distribution. given the challenges to citizens' health and the economy, blocking such important and decisive crisis resolution processes is totally unacceptable. i have said this time and again since our first discussions on this crisis: these vaccines must become a global commons. the top priority is to vaccinate as many people as possible and to move towards herd immunity as quickly as possible, worldwide. without solidarity, there will be no way out of the crisis.
mr president, let us imagine for a moment that the air we breathe is produced by a laboratory jealously defending its patent. since access to air is a matter of life and death, it is hard to see who could not consider air a global public good. the same is true for the vaccine against a respiratory disease. we have heard dozens of times this morning that the abolition of patents alone cannot solve the problems of universal access to vaccines, on the grounds that the industrial production capacity of such vaccines requires a transfer of production capacity to third countries. this is true for the months ahead, but if the commitments made in 2002 by the wto to expand production capacity to third countries had been kept, we would already be able to produce vaccines in every corner of the world today. in the meantime, our hopes rest on the covax initiative to be able to vaccinate the entire world population. it is also, by the way, a guarantee of safety for all of us.
mr president, minister, commissioner, let's be frank, no matter how much respect we may have for joe biden, this announcement about lifting the vaccines is at best just a nice media coup. the united states exports neither vaccine nor component, barely 2% of its production, while europe sends half of its production, all over the world: one injection, one exported dose. no, the main thing is he's somewhere else. the key is to make the vaccine available to everyone, not next year, not in six months, but today and now. and to quote you, minister, as you mentioned, here, speed and capacities are of the essence. now, i don't think that the withdrawal of vaccines here will help that process. no, vaccine solidarity is about transferring some of the available stocks to covax to serve as a firewall to the second wave that is sweeping india and southeast asia right now. solidarity also means the transfer of technology between firms and production centres, as univercells is doing, for example, with the pasteur institute in dakar. europe acts, it is altruistic, it is in our dna. it also needs to be strategic and protect innovation, to give the therapies of tomorrow a chance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a pandemic, is it more important to maximize profits or to protect people's health? that is what we are talking about today and that is what we have to decide on. it is crucial that we put in place all the measures we can to eradicate covid and get our lives back on track. as variants emerge and waves shift, the pandemic shows us that we need a global response, because we can't restrict the virus within national borders and it won't be enough to vaccinate only the richest portion of the planet to be safe. it 's not just unfair . it's really useless. for months now, we have been proposing in parliament the temporary suspension of patents or at least of the so-called "compulsory licences", not only because there has been a crucial public effort in funding research, which has led to the vaccine in record time, eliminating the business risk for those who produced it, but also because there is a social emergency that questions the union about its deepest values. in view of the g20 summit on 21 may, it is essential to send a message and act accordingly: health and with it vaccines must be universal commons. you got it.
mr president, let’s look a bit at the figures. sixty-eight million vaccines are available to 124 countries. another one billion are available to 30 countries. at today’s pace the poor countries will have two billion vaccinations in 117 months – which means more than 10 years. i think it is very clear that we need to find a global solution because this problem, this pandemic, we cannot solve in only one place: ours. it started from a small place, but it cannot be solved in only a small number of rich countries. that is why, however, i don’t think the solution is to antagonise the pharmaceutical companies with which we had such an important partnership during the crisis. i think it is crucial to start talking to our transatlantic partners, to the us, about real solutions. we already saw they gave 80 more million to covax. we need them to also start exporting like we do. we need them to be on board and solve the problem together. dear colleagues, we are not safe until everybody’s safe.
madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, i am glad that there is this debate in parliament, i think we need to discuss it more fully, because so far the subject has often been treated superficially. clearly, the european union is attractive and will remain attractive to many immigrants, but who wouldn't want to bring to their own country brilliant minds who contribute to the well-being of society, and we need to do more here. we need much more flexible european legislation so that we can continue to be attractive to those who bring welfare and help our societies. at the same time, we must be extremely realistic, and look with great responsibility to those who are driven by life to choose an extreme solution and to take more or less acceptable paths in europe in order to build a new meaning. and for them, we have to find mechanisms so that they can be integrated into the labour market without putting pressure on national governments, on states, because it is their exclusive competence. but at the same time we must find the conditions for building flexible mechanisms that will allow the states to accept or not this necessary intervention by the commission.
mr president, in this parliament we called for legislation on ai anchored in european values able to strengthen our digital single market. we now have a proposal on the table, the first of its kind in the world, and i thank and congratulate the commission for it. we now need to work to ensure its success, and our mission is this: we need to secure the rights of all citizens and ensure ai does not lead to biases and discrimination. ai should be a force for good. we need to remove regulatory burdens to support innovation in our companies, big and small. ai should be a tool for prosperity and global competitiveness. we need to educate our citizens and train our specialists on ai. ai is as much about today as it is about the future. we need to ensure that member states will implement this ai regulation in a manner that strengthens the digital single market and doesn’t fragment it. ai should bring the union closer together. and we need to work with the us and other democracies to ensure ai is developed according to democratic values worldwide. ai is a geopolitical subject and the eu is a geopolitical actor. we have a historic opportunity to show global leadership. let’s use it wisely.
mr president the digital transformation also affects the education sector, which is facing the most significant change since the introduction of compulsory education. it is estimated that 65 percent of today's schoolchildren will eventually work in new jobs that do not yet exist, and digital literacy will be essential to that. during the coronavirus pandemic, teachers and students alike have learned new skills in education. and although it was not always easy, i am sure that our children will be able to use this knowledge in the future, in their work. so in the long run, the so-called covid generation may not be the losers, but the winners of the pandemic. i believe, and i've proven in my own life, that challenges inspire creative solutions, and that ultimately, they serve us well.
president, commissioner, i would like to thank my colleague deirdre clune for this great result. artificial intelligence is of great importance for the future of europe and all europeans and will bring countless opportunities. for example, we can use artificial intelligence to give our ageing society the emotion and identity to feel european. we now have the opportunity to set the standard as the european union worldwide, and thereby protect european industry and implement our standards and values, if we set the bar high enough. it is therefore important that future legislation is better packaged in regulations, so that a fully harmonised legislation is established from which member states cannot depart in order to undermine the leverage of the internal market. the single market is europe's most important weapon in the world and we must make use of it. we must not fall into the problems often used by member states. we also need to ensure that start-ups and smes can easily access finance so that they can fully exploit the potential of artificial intelligence. and we also need to make sure that we keep our data within europe, so that we don't become dependent on google, facebook and alibaba. this is an important step towards the future, which i hope my children and grandchildren will take advantage of.
mr president, three key principles should guide the eu’s digital transition: innovation, values and security. to foster innovation, we need fair rules and fair competition in open markets; unjustified barriers to digital trade must be dismantled both within the eu and with respect to third countries. reliable data governance is the key. regulation is needed to guide the digital market based on our values. the digital proposal on ai includes banning authoritarian big brother ai practices and sets rules to protect citizens. it shows that the eu leads the world on digital regulation. in the committee on international trade opinion, we see that the eu has to work for global rules on the digital economy – with the oecd, wto, united nations and standardisation bodies – in order to set a common understanding and global standards for ai. digital rules should support democratic principles, human rights and sustainable development. we also support the proposal to establish an eu-us trade and technology council. as digital technology becomes the new normal, security of course needs to be doubled, in both digital networks and the cybersecurity space.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. digitalization is more than just an abstract concept. it's a way to make our lives easier, a new way to communicate by ignoring physical distances. we have seen this in the last year. digitalisation offers us new tools to analyse all areas and to create models and scenarios of development that can be put into practice. we all know the immense benefits that digitisation can bring to our society and economy. it is for this very reason that it is important that the rules are clear and that they are, in particular, the rules of a genuine european internal market. another important point to consider is that both digitalisation and artificial intelligence are geared towards people, respect for human rights and freedoms and the protection of consumer rights at the level of the european union.
madam president, without a non-discriminatory distribution of responsibility at all levels and sectors of the economy, the green deal would remain a revolution on paper that would bring some to their knees and unjustly push others to historic heights, because now the responsibility for pollution seems to fall solely on the shoulders of farmers, exonerating other areas, as if they had made no contribution to this global phenomenon. the report's provisions could, however, balance the balance and expose the dirty and uncompetitive practices of some major polluters. i am referring in particular to entities that try to circumvent european legislation by opening subsidiaries in third countries and allowing it, or to those that have cleared forests in europe and have never been held accountable by the law for the disaster they have caused: catastrophic floods, loss of human life and biodiversity, destruction of animal habitats that have forced them to move to cities, hungry and sometimes aggressive, as is happening in romania, for example. change is therefore necessary and expected.
mr president, commissioner sinkevičius, colleagues, eight years ago, my country experienced protests over an environmental issue that has become a symbol. rosia montana is a municipality in the apuseni mountains, where a canadian company has proposed to mine cyanide. but on the streets of bucharest and all over romania, everyone shouted: "united we save rosia montana". the explosion in the "romanian autumn" as the international press called this period was possible thanks to 15 environmental organizations that always fought. they fought the authorities in court, they ran information campaigns, they collected signatures against abusive laws. if today we don't have a cyanide lake in the heart of the western mountains it's thanks to them. in 2008, the national highway company of romania cleared a forest to build a place. the environmental agreement required it to reforest 29 hectares to compensate for this deforestation, but the company did not comply with the obligation. if the aarhus convention had been applied then as the regulation proposes, maybe the eco-civica foundation that sued the company then and lost, maybe it would have won and today we would have the forest, because even today it was not planted. this is what it looks like, commissioner, the fight for a clean environment at its roots. but the environment doesn't always have to be the loser. in the battle between two private parties, no one takes the side of the environment. that is why we are voting today for this regulation, to empower those who fight for the environment every day, the ngos and the ordinary people.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the establishment of the european cyber security centre is very good news. by creating this centre, we will strengthen the european union's ability to protect itself against cyber attacks. we will also support industry, all private sector actors contributing to the cybersecurity of the european union. this center will be a great support for them. through the digitization process of the last few years, we have all experienced new challenges. now it's time to take it to the next level. we have over 600 centres in the european union that deal with cyber security. now is the time to bring all these resources together - the contribution of the private sector, the research, the expertise of the public authorities - and to make the european union a leader in security, a leader in cybersecurity. i am delighted that bucharest has been chosen to host this new cybersecurity centre. it's a win for romania and it's a win for the european union. the application submitted by romania was considered by the member states to be the best, the most appropriate application. i would like to thank all the authorities in romania, the new host country of this centre, for their entire contribution, as well as the 2020 government of romania, led by prime minister ludovic orban. the choice for romania is a very good choice. there are many talented workers in this field and romania has been a leader in generating start-ups, new successful companies in this field. i would like to thank all the member states for giving romania this chance. i'm sure the decision to allocate this headquarters to romania will prove a success. thank you.
madam president, commissioner gentiloni, last year we saw how challenges strike us exactly when we least expect them and we realised how important it is to be prepared to face any danger. cyberattacks have become increasingly complex, harder to detect and better targeted, and this epidemiological context has fostered their frequency by the fact that, for more than a year, all our activity has largely moved online. technological progress and the fact that we are in a digital age creates huge opportunities for development and innovation, but it also presents risks, and we need to be aware that cyber attacks and cybercrime are one of the challenges of the present. enisa has identified certain trends in cyber-attacks, including the increasing use of social platforms for attacks. electronic fraud is on the rise and can catch us red-handed every day. security incidents have become harder to detect and the main motivation remains financial. we have a long way to go before the online environment is truly secure, before we can really talk about a digital transformation that puts the citizen in safety. to be prepared, to be able to react quickly, to be able to coordinate, you need a cybersecurity competence centre. this will not only bring security to the everyday lives of european citizens, but will create opportunities for industry development, for the development of digital hubs, for their interconnection and for how europe can, globally, rise to these challenges. and where else to set up this hub but in the newest hub with the potential for innovation on the european continent. i am proud that this centre will be based in romania and i am convinced that it is an opportunity to show that innovation can flow from east to west and from south to north.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, we have all seen and experienced the dramatic effects of the covid-19 pandemic. we'll feel it over the long term, but how would our economies and societies have coped with this pandemic if we didn't have digital technology at our fingertips? technology has allowed us to adapt, to keep going, to fight. on the other hand, it is also technology and cyberspace that are the new arena in which the struggles for global supremacy are fought. cyberattacks, the assault on digital infrastructure and efforts to undermine our democracies are in full swing every day, and vulnerabilities in cyberspace are threats to the rights, well-being, security and even the lives of our citizens. from here, the need for cybersecurity, and from here, three things i want to highlight. first, we need to start thinking much more ambitiously. the us and china are investing hundreds of billions in cybersecurity, infrastructure and innovation. we need to start having the same level of ambition if we really want to be a geopolitical player in the digital age, and so we need to set out to invest more in this hub of expertise as well. second, we need to pick a side, team up and shift the balance of global cybersecurity, and the choice is simple. the united states is our main ally and partner, and together we can confront china. thirdly, i want to make sure that romania, the country that it represents in this parliament and which will host the competence centre, understands its responsibility and the strategic importance of this centre. romania will work seriously with the commission and the member states to make the centre operational as soon as possible and to ensure its smooth functioning. the future is digital, and the most important step to ensuring that this future remains anchored in our democratic values is to protect it.
madam president, this is a debate we should not have. the national roma strategies should already have been adopted. roma inclusion, equality and participation should already mean funding, programmes and some results. this is not yet the case unfortunately. we learn from the shortcomings of the previous year roma framework that delivering results for the roma is largely dependent on the political will in the member states. the reason the previous strategy had failed was not its content, but the lack of support from some member states. the european union must provide the necessary push, structure and coordination for member states so that we can move away from the institutional and political inaction. i agree with colleagues. we need more than the debate. we need more than a resolution even. a proper roma legislative framework would be needed, that in the future would create certainty, predictability and career goals on this matter. roma integration strategies should not be conceived as isolated documents. the national roma strategies are not independent from the national eu financing programmes, from the recovery plan or those from the next generation eu. on the contrary, country—specific recommendations and on the situation of roma should be an integral part of the relevant horizontal, central and local policies. roma inclusion must make it to the top of national, social and economic agendas. i invite the commission and the council to act in this direction.
madam president, commissioner dalli, secretary of state zacarias, ethnic origin is the most widespread form of discrimination in the european union. roma communities are the most exposed to prejudice and intolerance. children in these communities are part of a cycle of disadvantage passed down from generation to generation, living in poverty, social exclusion and discrimination. we are very close to having a european child guarantee, a tool to combat poverty among children from these disadvantaged families. to achieve its goal - as the portuguese presidency has helped - the guarantee must also help all children to have access to essential services: to education, to health care, to healthy nutrition, to adequate housing. the council recommendations and the new strategic framework for roma equality, inclusion and participation are welcome, but we need to be more ambitious, with binding and measurable objectives, backed up by european legislation to guide social inclusion, community participation and combating discrimination against roma.
madam president, colleagues, your approach to this matter is totally and utterly wrong. you talk about rights, rights, rights and rights. that's great! but rights everywhere and always must be accompanied by obligations. the obligation to study, the obligation to work, the obligation to look for a job, the obligation not to commit crimes, not to rob, not to rob elderly people, the obligation not to rape single elderly women. when you have those duties, you have those rights, of course. but you're always focusing on the other thing. you have poured millions, billions of european taxpayers' money into the hands of crooked foundations and organizations that for 10, 15, 20 years, decades and other nonsense, have done absolutely nothing. let me tell you what the result of this work is. i'll tell you what. just two days ago in bulgaria, nova zagora, the residents of the nova zagora neighborhood attacked a train. they stopped him and stoned him for fun. train, my friends, train, for fun. you saw a train, right? and a stone you've probably seen. it's like this incident was written by karl may or mayne reid, but alas, this is the result of your work for 20 or 30 years in the 21st century. shame on you, gentlemen! it's time to open your eyes, get your head out of the ground and see the problem for what it is. there is no integration that is not desirable and cannot be desirable. duty before rights!
madam president, i think that mr dzhambazki's speech should be analysed, because it is a clear example of what the creation of intolerant rhetoric, of hate-mongering rhetoric can be. and when hate speech is broadcast from public places, it has a far greater effect and is far more harmful. one thing is clear: all human beings are and have equal dignity and should not be stigmatized at birth. and what mr dzhambazki has done is to generalize and stigmatize an entire group for acts allegedly carried out, in his opinion, by all the members of that group. this is the first big issue: making enemies. and, let's see: there's a vicious cycle of unfavorable conditions and stereotypes and discrimination and prejudice, that weighs down people generation after generation. you, mr. dzhambazki, in a child, you don't see a child: you see an enemy. and we have to break up with this. this is the fundamental question: we must break with this. every human being has dignity; and if there is a person who is a criminal, whether he is a roma or not, then justice will have to determine it. you are categorizing them all as criminals and this is the first thing that we in this parliament cannot allow.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating something today that we have debated before. what can we conclude? that discrimination against the roma, that lack of inclusion of the roma, is actually just being debated, but we have no concrete measures that lead to an end. there was talk of money spent - i'm sorry to say this - but you should know that the money didn't often go to the roma, it went to certain associations that took it. you have not set, madam commissioner, and we need to set some performance indicators. what do i do with that money? do they have a roma integration result? and with all due respect, i think there are a lot of citizens who are being discriminated against. there was talk here that the roma and the children had no hot water. you know, there are many other poor children who don't have hot water. i believe that europe needs humanity, humanism, solidarity, and we must do this not with words but with deeds, and the states must show solidarity and take responsibility. i have seen many times that roma people have been put on airplanes and sent elsewhere. why would you do that? we have a single market and they are european citizens. they are all european citizens from all 27 countries, regardless of ethnicity, and we must respect them. people must live with dignity, otherwise we make statements that have no impact on citizens.
madam president, please. i thank you very much for your comments today, and the criticisms were quite justified, both towards the european commission and the council. in 2010, the european parliament proposed the decisions that were finally born in porto. member states, like hungary, should give priority to roma in the recovery fund programmes to be submitted in september. discrimination can only be eliminated through employment and education. the biggest losers in europe from the covid pandemic are the poor, and in the period afterwards, very important economic steps are needed to ensure that the roma in europe not only end their discrimination, but also their integration, their economic integration into european society. for more than 800 years, the roma in europe have been members of european society, contributing to its economic integration and culture. to that extent, i ask the european council and the european commission to provide better professional proposals to support member states in the integration of roma.
member of the commission. – madam president, i sincerely thank honourable members for this important debate, and i don’t use the word ‘important’ loosely here because we are speaking about the realities of millions of europeans. so thanks again for your contributions here. in order to ensure the best possible implementation of the eu roma strategic framework and make real progress towards roma equality and inclusion at all levels of governance, we need to work together. the eu needs to join forces with member states’ regional and local authorities to achieve sustainable progress, and we must also involve all stakeholders in a spirit of genuine partnership. above all, we must continue to reach out to roma people themselves and create the right conditions, allowing them to engage fully in all stages of the policy process as well as in social, cultural and economic life. it is good that member states have demonstrated their commitment to address the challenges faced by roma communities by taking on board our proposal and adopting the council recommendation on roma equality, inclusion and participation unanimously last march. this recommendation provides stronger guidance to member states and sets out concrete measures that they should adopt in order to achieve equality, inclusion and participation of roma. in addition to addressing the sectoral policy areas of education, employment, health and housing, which remain relevant, the recommendation covers measures focusing on equality and non—discrimination, stronger partnership and institutional capacity, better use of funds and reinforced monitoring. so, as a next step, member states are now defining their national measures. they should submit their roma strategic frameworks by september and report on implementation every two years. i underline once more that we have taken to heart the lessons learned from our past experience and designed a comprehensive strategic framework to foster roma equality, inclusion and participation. i am personally convinced that, by genuine commitment and unity on this issue, we can make this initiative a success. i therefore call on all of us – all of us – to contribute and help make a real difference for roma people in europe.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from this debate that roma people are the most vulnerable and discriminated against people in our common space and that we must do more to reverse this situation. the recent council recommendation, adopted during the portuguese presidency, emphasizes the complementarity of national and local european policies, as the commissioner has said, in combating this age-old process of social exclusion and discrimination against the majority of europe's roma population. the recommendation provides guidance for the design, implementation and monitoring of a new generation of national strategies promoting the effective inclusion of these populations, as enshrined in the treaties, the principles of the european pillar of social rights and its new action plan. but integration does not mean loss of identity. integration is being able to be different, but enjoying the same rights, the same opportunities, the same dignity, and in this sense, the conference we have just organised in portugal, at european level, called working together for roma rights, was very important and very inspiring for me, where we had the pleasure of hearing from civil society organisations, academics, politicians, including members of this parliament. we have in fact maintained very close contact with the members of the ardi intergroup throughout our presidency in various contexts, seeking to highlight their contribution to the defence of diversity, non-discrimination and the promotion of genuine social inclusion of roma communities. at this conference, we also heard from distinguished cadres of the roma community, including students and academics, who are at the forefront of this struggle for equality, for participation, for inclusion, for civic participation. they are the voice of a community that has been mistreated and marginalised by history, but they are also the face of a huge potential for building an inclusive, pluralist, developed european society that rejects anti-gypsyism. the roma in europe are not foreigners, they are europeans. they have the same aspirations and the same potential as all of us. we must ensure that they can help shape the policies that affect them, boost the economy, improve european society as a whole by increasing their representation in decision-making processes, including at political level, but only in this way, without a doubt, can we make progress and achieve concrete results, as was said at the porto summit.
in writing. the roma are the largest ethnic community in europe. it is estimated that there are between 10 and 12 million roma on our continent, of whom about 6 million are eu citizens or residents. despite numerous actions to combat discrimination, many members of this community are still victims of prejudice and social exclusion. the figures indicate that a significant percentage of roma live below the poverty line, many households are without water or have no indoor toilet or shower. we need to focus all our efforts on three extremely important goals: employment, vocational training and poverty reduction among the roma community. when we think of europe, we think of a europe that puts the well-being of its citizens first. the eu has a duty to protect its minorities against racism and discrimination and therefore supports any approach where roma citizens and communities can have equal opportunities in all spheres of life, benefit from socioeconomic inclusion and participate equally in society.
in writing. – i fully endorsed the demand of the european parliament that all armenian prisoners, both military and civilian, detained during and after the conflict must be released and that azerbaijan must fully implement the tripartite ceasefire statement of 9 november 2020. the european union was unjustifiably absent in the efforts to end the conflict. it can no longer stand idle while the soldiers of armenia, its friend, are still held in prison by azerbaijan. it must help armenian families get their children back! other top priorities are that humanitarian assistance urgently reaches those in need and that the security of the armenian population and its cultural heritage in nagorno-karabakh is ensured. we must also emphatically stress that the ‘park of military trophies’ inaugurated in baku displaying wax mannequins depicting dead and dying armenian soldiers and models of armenian prisoners of war chained in a cell has no place in any country in the 21st century.
mr president, commissioner, i think it's clear to everyone already that we can no longer afford to talk about climate change as a very distant scenario. they are here and they are hitting from all sides, especially in the agricultural sector. the last two years have seen devastating floods, extreme drought and, earlier this year, a frost that has simply brought the wine and fig sectors of europe to their knees. and let's not forget, all of this has come against a backdrop of a sanitation crisis and as european farmers prepare for the biggest change in post-industrial history, which comes with drastic conditions and a tight budget. the balance is staggering. at the end of april, we had tens of thousands of hectares of fruit trees destroyed by frost in eight member states, but the statistics i am referring to do not cover all the affected countries, such as romania, for example. to this balance shall be added grapevine products from calamity vines at a rate of up to 50%. and when we draw the line, we see that this disaster, which has brought farmers to the brink of despair, will be paid for out of the pockets of the 450 million european consumers, and this will also provide an opportunity for importers from third countries who, speculating on the moment, will in turn raise prices for agricultural products. the new common agricultural policy must therefore be able to respond promptly to such crises, which are no longer accidental but are becoming predictable, and money must not remain on paper, as unfortunately happened in the first year of the pandemic. moreover, climate change is forcing us to adapt the conditions for accessing the crisis fund, which at the moment cannot be used to freeze. in the current climate context, i don't think we can leave any natural phenomena out of the rapid response measures. farming is not fun, farming is survival.
mr president, mr commissioner, europe needs more entrepreneurs, because that is the only way to create growth and new jobs. the impact of the corona pandemic has hit smes hard across europe. businesses still need support to recover, but at the same time, reforms are needed to support their future growth and success. we expect a lot from the eu commission when it comes to small european enterprises. it is very important that this state of the smes union debate has come to life for the first time now due to the epp group’s insistence over the past year. in particular, we want to see the concrete implementation of the ‘one in, one out’ principle applied to upcoming eu rules. in 2019, the new eu commission committed itself to better legislation, reducing bureaucracy and improving conditions for our small and medium-sized enterprises. unfortunately, quite little has happened since then. in december 2020, the european parliament endorsed the call for binding targets to reduce administrative burdens in the eu and asked the commission to present an impact assessment by june 2021. we expect the eu commission to deliver on this request by this month. smes need legislation that encourages them to grow, innovate and invest. unnecessary bureaucracy is not what they need, and therefore we should reduce it.
mr president, mr commissioner, the recovery of the impact on the economy, while the union continues to commit itself to the green deal, the second wave of digitalisation and the implementation of the pillar of social rights, is an opportunity to strengthen the role of smes as reference points in the implementation of policies for inclusion, skills and innovation. we must be pragmatic! smes need support systems tailored to their specific needs, with effective but lightweight and flexible monitoring and evaluation. these companies offset the risks of size with the advantages of rapid adaptation to the dynamics of markets and value chains. they cannot therefore be overwhelmed by models of regulatory scrutiny which do not respect this differentiating feature. as the union regulates the new generation of financing and the functioning of markets and services, in particular digital markets, it is essential to ensure that smes are increasingly a key enabler of technological innovation, social and environmental sustainability and the competitiveness of the european economy. the holding of this debate is an excellent sign of interinstitutional commitment in this respect.
before we continue the debate, i shall open today's voting. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the vote will take place between 6:01 and 7:15 p.m. the same voting procedure as in previous sessions shall apply. all votes are by name. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, explanations of vote may not exceed 400 words. i declare the voting to be open. the result of the votes will be announced tomorrow at 9 a.m.
we now continue the joint debate on the commission statement (2021/2709 (rsp)) and the commission statement (2021/2710 (rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. i am glad that we agree on the importance of smes, but concrete steps should be taken from now on. i would like to raise four points. first, the sme test of the legislation must be put into practice. i would also like to draw the attention of the parliament and the council to the fact that when proposing amendments, they should take into account the impact on smes. secondly, to update the commission's sme strategy of march last year in view of the impact of the covid crisis. third, the commission and the member states should do their utmost to give priority to smes in their national recovery plans. the commission should give member states a free hand to help smes recover as effectively as possible with eu funds. finally, ursula von der leyen has promised to reduce the administrative burden. i'm asking when we're going to see something of the old disappear by creating a new rule. instead, the commission and the left want to further increase the burden on businesses, whether it's tax or sustainability. we are thus losing competitiveness and the eu is falling behind in the international race.
mr president, commissioner schmit, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission is still the world champion in announcing, but after flowery speeches it delivers nothing or badly. we are waiting for clear, binding rules, one in, one out, impact assessment, independent control. we need a mandatory sme test. the announcements are not helping the smes. the commission must now finally deliver. more ambition than in any other climate policy. the sme ombudsman also has little more than big announcements. the commission must ensure that the appointment of the sme ombudsman does not become a mere figurehead. vazil hudák would certainly not be an ideal cast. as a banker, he's not the man the middle class needs right now. we need less regulation, more proportional legislation, solutions to the problem of supply bottlenecks in the wood and construction industries, for example. we cannot seriously want someone to take up an advisory job with the georgian president before being appointed as sme commissioner. the powers of the commissioners are also unclear. and we've been waiting for this for a year and a half? i can't do that. we are asking for a link with the president of the commission, full access rights and also adequate staffing. we demand an end to flowery announcements and ten proposals in july. we are also expecting ten proposals for the strike list.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today smes are regaining their share in europe thanks to the rising manufacturing index, some analysts even say that it is soaring. in many european countries, including my own, there are good results, thanks to the stimulus that has been given as well as to the recovery in demand. but i think that's why we have to be very careful too. the recovery is already showing signs of crisis which we as europe can act on. i am thinking in particular of the shortage of raw materials, partly because certain supply chains have been disrupted, with many problems on transport routes, and i am thinking of the lack of some indispensable instruments. this is leading to the fact that many small and mediumsized enterprises, as well as large ones, are acquiring orders and signing orders knowing in advance that they will not be able to meet these deadlines, and therefore will pay penalties. this is a critical point to which i would like to draw the commission's attention. i am glad that commissioner schmit is here, who is very sensitive and attentive to all these aspects, so that we can take action. the second point, which is the really complicated and strategic one, is the challenge we have to accompany smes in the adventure of transition with solutions that are good for them, of a cut that suits them and not imposed from above.
president karas, commissioner schmit, the epidemiological context in which we find ourselves has affected all of us, all economic activity. but by far the biggest impact has been felt by small businesses, by small entrepreneurs who have seen their business restricted or even closed, who have had no predictability and no reserves of the big companies to overcome this impasse. we have a unique opportunity at european level to demonstrate solidarity, initiative, development and innovation in support of small entrepreneurs. to show that we care, we need to look closely at the strategy for smes in a sustainable and digital europe and identify ways to boost innovation. to create a true sme union, we need to develop large industrial and service ecosystems, cluster networks and digital innovation hubs. we need to improve access to finance and markets and reduce red tape and administrative costs. only then will we be able to respect the principle of think small first and really respect our entrepreneurs in europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the team that worked on this dossier for reiterating the european parliament's firm message: there is no place in the internal market for unfair practices and the rights of 450 million citizens are not negotiable. last year, the pandemic hit european food producers hard. despite superhuman efforts to ensure food safety, manufacturers have had to contend with the increasingly unfair practices of retailers. a recent european study shows that almost 20% of the manufacturers surveyed, including corporations, complain about the avalanche of abuses in 2020, and i know what happened in my country, romania. this is in contrast to the fact that importers have benefited from much more favourable measures for their products which have lower standards and prices. in conclusion, as this report shows, the commission must ensure that the competition rules are respected through stronger measures guaranteeing a fair price for farmers' labour and easy non-discriminatory access to hypermarket shelves and the application of the principle of reciprocity in all trade agreements with third countries. the year 2020 must not become a dangerous precedent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the biodiversity of the european seas, and in particular of the mediterranean sea, is declining at a dizzying rate and we cannot stand by in the face of this disastrous degradation. in the last 50 years, we've lost almost half of the marine life on the planet. it is time to act and it is crucial to vote in favour of the introduction of binding targets to protect 30% of european waters and to protect strictly 10% of them, putting an end to the devastating impact of activities such as drilling, pollution from maritime transport, urban and industrial discharges, marine waste, including plastic, and industrial fishing. we must not allow the attempts of certain political groups to lower the level of ambition achieved by means of harmful amendments. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's fisheries policy. we give space and opportunity for valuable ecosystems and habitats to recover and for sustainable artisanal fisheries to survive.
commissioner, a silent killer has been ravaging europe while we were preoccupied with the pandemic. while humans could not breathe, nature could not breathe. just tonight, in romania, one of the most beautiful waterfalls, bigar waterfall, was swept away by man. illegal logging has increased unchecked during this period. in romania, unfortunately, 300 000 hectares of forest, an area the size of luxembourg, have been illegally lost. why is this of interest to us in the european parliament? because romanian forests absorb 6% of european carbon dioxide annually, so we all care about what happens. any missing forest means just as much desert or floodplain in its place. commissioner, we need a european moratorium on deforestation in protected areas. the commission needs to come up with a clear definition of strictly protected areas and i encourage you to do so. we expect you to stop this silent killer of our nature.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the swedish forest is amazing. it gives us amazing opportunities for recreation and it gives us amazing products and amazing opportunities in the fight against fossil fuels. in fact, it was my love for the swedish forest and our nature that made me become a politician from the very beginning. the conservation of our nature is of paramount importance and europe must do better in promoting and defending biodiversity. but it must be done with the right policies - biodiversity and forests are too important to fail. the compromise of ownership and the increase in central management without taking into account local conditions is completely unacceptable to me. that is why tomorrow's vote is one of the most important votes i will ever take as a member of parliament. i hope we can vote for a strategy that effectively increases our biodiversity without limiting the swedish forest's potential to be amazing.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this very rich debate, which highlighted once again both the high stakes and the imperative to deliver on the biodiversity agenda. we are all very well aware of the challenges we need to overcome. you have raised so many important topics tonight, but in just a couple of minutes i can only address some of them. but of course, let me recall that we will, as always, provide a detailed written reply within the next few weeks. i have heard many of you saying tonight that we should not blame farmers or foresters, fishermen, for the bad state of our ecosystems, that we have to work with them and we have to have them on board, and that they do care about their forests, their land and their seas. well, mr mato, mr bernhuber, ms zalewska, ms polfjärd, i could not agree more with you. this is what i have been saying in all my speeches since we adopted the biodiversity strategy last year, and never have i or any of my colleagues pointed finger to fishermen, farmers or foresters. the commission has always said that we need them on board and we need to support them in transition towards more sustainability. i can only agree with mr lins, who said that we need cooperation and inclusiveness. yes, we do, but the consequence cannot be lowering our ambitions. the biodiversity crisis is so much advanced that we cannot lose time. science is very clear. and as we’re listening to all stakeholders, we also have to listen to science. and the global challenges are also huge. we can be a credible global leader only if we lead by example. so the solution can be only to go this way together, bringing all on board, listening and explaining and of course supporting those who will need to help us making this transition a success. and these are, first of all, of course, farmers, foresters and fishermen. over the last year, i have reached out to many of them, spoken and listened to them, and now finally i can start also visiting them on the ground. and we are supporting them through the cap funds, through the mff, through regional policy and through many other programmes. ensuring the necessary funding will be one of the crucial factors for the successful implementation of the biodiversity commitments by 2030. the mff interinstitutional agreement, which includes a commitment to allocate at least 10% of the multiannual financial framework for biodiversity in 2026 will support the achievement of this goal. we are also developing a new tracking methodology, which we would be happy to present to the european parliament later this year. let me also say a few words on forests, which were so often mentioned today. i have taken a very good note of the many interventions on forests, the last one was as well. and let me be very clear, while it is true that the overall quantity of forests has started to increase over the last years, forest ecosystems are under more and more pressure in the eu and in all member states, and the protection of existing eu forests is absolutely crucial to achieve our climate and biodiversity objectives for 2030 and 2050. and we are not credible in pushing any ambitious eu policy to halting deforestation and forest degradation in the amazon or southeast asia if we allow for degradation in the eu old growth forests. together with my colleagues janusz wojciechowski and vice-president frans timmermans, we are developing a new eu forest strategy for adoption in july, building on the eu biodiversity strategy to 2030, covering the whole forest cycle and promoting the many services that forests can provide. today’s debate is symbolic of many discussions taking place within and between eu institutions, in the member states and at global level. these discussions will continue and intensify over the next months and years. they will sometimes be difficult, but they are also necessary to find the right balance to deal with unavoidable trade-offs, to tap into new opportunities and to secure the richness of life on this planet. this is our shared responsibility and i am convinced that we can only succeed if we continue on this journey together. and of course, in the work ahead, we will fully consider the european parliament’s input. in the coming days, we will launch a public online tool, a dashboard, illustrating progress in the implementation of the eu biodiversity strategy for 2030. we also want to produce our first annual progress note later this autumn, and i would be happy to present and discuss progress at the european parliament by the end of this year. to ensure full political ownership of the eu biodiversity strategy, the commission will also suggest a standing progress point at the council and at the european parliament. i look forward to our continued close cooperation on safeguarding our natural capital in the eu and globally.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. agricultural land covers almost half of the eu's area, and forests cover about 42% of its territory. agriculture and forestry play an important role in preserving and restoring biodiversity, in maintaining healthy ecosystems and viable rural areas, and in ensuring our food security. the achievement of the objectives of the eu biodiversity strategy 2030 (including organic area, reduction of chemical pesticides and fertilisers, soil health, pollinators, landscape, sustainable agricultural and agroforestry ecosystems) should not be a burden for farmers. they should be supported and encouraged to move towards more sustainable production models and compensated for the ecosystem services provided. in this regard, the effective implementation of the strategy should ensure not only the environmental but also the economic and social sustainability of the holdings. the strategy also calls for the protection of the eu's remaining ancient and pristine forests - the lungs of our continent. nearly 90% of these carbon-rich and habitable forest ecosystems are in just four countries, including bulgaria. it is our duty to preserve this wealth, much of which is in the natura 2000 protected areas in the stara planina and the rhodope mountains.
in writing. the eu biodiversity strategy is a step towards achieving the climate neutral continent target. by halting the decline of biodiversity, the strategy is an emergency plan to prevent potential future health crises. this cannot be possible without a law to protect biodiversity and soil, proposals from the s&d. i believe that the forest fund is our strongest ally in the fight against climate change. however, for european forests to bring prosperity and environmental and socio-economic benefits, a balance is needed between their uniform protection and sustainable exploitation, as well as zero-tolerance measures for illegal deforestation. however, i believe that the biodiversity strategy must reflect the crucial role farmers play in protecting and regenerating the soil, as they are the first beneficiaries of a healthy environment. by voting, i will ensure that environmental targets do not become a burden and endanger the food security of the union. on the contrary, the ambitions must be proportionate to the different realities in the member states and be accompanied by the necessary instruments to make them a reality. the amendments tabled have raised the alarm about the sturgeon's disappearance and the urgent need to save this iconic species.
in writing. the 2030 biodiversity strategy is a comprehensive, ambitious and long-term plan of the european union that aims to protect nature and reverse the degradation of ecosystems. as far as agriculture is concerned, its impact on biodiversity and its importance in the european union are undeniable as stewards of the land, farmers play a vital role in conserving biodiversity. they are among the first to feel the consequences when biodiversity is lost. agriculture has helped to create and preserve the natural landscape. responsible and sustainable management of agricultural land has a positive impact on the development of biodiversity however, improper farming practices have a negative impact on our resources. the loss of biodiversity, in other words of fauna and flora, has a negative and damaging impact on agricultural land in the medium and long term, even leading to the threat of food security. agriculture must improve its environmental performance through more sustainable production methods that support nature therefore, additional charges cannot be imposed without additional money and farmers must be given financial support. all decisions taken at eu level must be grounded in reality so that farmers have the opportunity to comply with and implement them. i 'm not .
in writing. hungary is committed to the conservation of biodiversity and the promotion of environmental sustainability. the ep report unfortunately confirms the commission's proposals. this does not ensure a balance between the environmental, economic and social aspects of sustainability. these three aspects must be in perfect balance to achieve ambitious objectives. the drastic increase in food and raw materials prices cannot be tolerated. the order is wrong for the forest. first, a new eu forestry strategy was needed, but now our forests are being presented as a fait accompli. sustainable forest management contributes to the conservation of the biological diversity of forests. hungary is committed to sustainable forest management. the multifunctional role of forests should be strengthened to achieve the eu's climate and biodiversity objectives. hungary aims to increase the forest and wooded area to 27% by 2030. the ep's draft report does not present sustainable forest management in a consistent manner. as far as agriculture is concerned, hungary's position is that we cannot force our farmers to take on commitments that lack any scientific basis. the commission has not acted responsibly: the biodiversity strategy has not been accompanied by adequate impact assessments. only in the knowledge of this could any substantive discussion or any commitment be made. at present, the targets are not legally binding. measures that would reduce the union's competitiveness, jeopardise the food supply or contribute to the further depopulation of rural areas should be avoided.
in writing. reducing the use of pesticides and prioritising organic farming in the eu must be done with adequate funding, alternative solutions for farmers and ensuring the production of healthy food at prices that are affordable for consumers. i would stress that in order to reduce the need to use chemical pesticides, european farmers need a much larger set of alternative solutions and methods that are effective and, very importantly, financially accessible. there is a growing need for new types of low-risk pesticides and biopesticides, for the financing and widespread use of effective application techniques facilitated by tools such as digital and precision agriculture, and for the strengthening of farmers' training and advice systems in agro-ecological practices. i call on the european commission to base its future legislative proposals on comprehensive impact assessments on the agricultural sector in order to guarantee the economic viability of farmers, food security for the population, avoid food price increases and reduce the risk of local food production being replaced by imports. they also argue that the 25% target for organic agricultural land should be set at union level and not individually for each member state, taking into account the extremely different starting points between eu member states.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the introduction of the financial support instrument for customs control equipment (07234/1/2021 - c9-0196/2021 - 2018/0258 ((cod)) (rapporteur: jiří pospíšil (a9-0196/2021). mr pospíšil will be represented by mr schwab, rapporteur.
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, it’s my pleasure today to represent our colleague, jiří pospíšil, who was the rapporteur on the proposal for a regulation establishing, as part of the integrated border management fund, the instrument for financial support for customs control equipment. i’m also here, as epp coordinator, to thank him for his excellent work, together with colleagues on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco). im letzten jahr hat sich gezeigt, wie wichtig funktionierende zollkontrollen sind, als unsichere masken und falsche desinfektionsmittel in die europäische union gespült wurden. solche waren dürfen in europa nicht verkauft werden, weil der verbraucher und die verbraucherin im einzelnen nicht in der lage wäre zu sehen, welche mittel korrekt oder nicht korrekt hergestellt wurden. deswegen brauchen wir kontrollen in der europäischen union, die sicherstellen, dass der markt zuverlässig ist. angesichts der tatsache, dass nur sechs von 27 mitgliedstaaten der europäischen union überhaupt einnahmen aus dem zoll generieren können, gibt es ein bedürfnis, alle zollbehörden aller mitgliedstaaten in vergleichbaren situationen handlungsfähig zu halten. deswegen hat die europäische kommission vorgeschlagen, hier mit finanziellen mitteln einen ausgleich zu schaffen, damit die kontrollen mit dem technischen gerät vorgenommen werden können, das notwendig ist. natürlich gehört darüber hinaus auch die digitalisierung zum inventar, das die zollabwicklung vereinfacht. und hier hängen die mitgliedstaaten seit mehr als 15 jahren hinterher. wir brauchen aber auch die digitalisierung. wir haben es bei den diskussionen zwischen dem vereinigten königreich und nordirland gesehen, wie wir nach wie vor nicht in der lage sind, digitale zollabwicklung vorzunehmen. deswegen wünsche ich mir, herr kommissar, dass die europäische kommission die jetzt freigegebenen mittel dazu nutzt, auch in die digitalisierung zu investieren und dafür zu sorgen, dass zwischen allen mitgliedstaaten und allen zollbehörden ein vergleichbares niveau an technischer und digitaler verfügbarkeit von infrastrukturen vorhanden ist, damit wir gemeinsam dafür sorgen können, dass der europäische binnenmarkt der sicherste markt in der welt bleibt.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am delighted to be here today and to take part in this debate on the future instrument for customs control equipment. the commission welcomes the outcome of the negotiations, including the agreed budget of eur 1 billion in the context of the multiannual financial framework negotiations, and of course i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, jiří pospíšil, for his strong support and major contribution to the successful compromise that we have on the table today. customs officers at the external borders of the european union need to be properly equipped in order to ensure the functioning of the customs union. the need for adequate and equivalent customs control is ever more pressing, given the increasing role played by customs to ensure the safety and security of the union. risks and threats to the security of the union and its financial and economic interests have progressively increased and new ones have emerged during the recent years. the surge in e-commerce, increasing digitalisation and the need to improve resilience to cyberattacks have also increased demand for effective customs control in order to prevent the diversion of flows of goods towards the weakest points in the customs control system, often referred to as ‘import point shopping’. let me thus highlight the importance of the ccei: the first funding instrument entirely dedicated to strengthening member states’ capacities to perform customs control. it comes as a response to the calls from the member states and the european parliament for a structured solution to provide national customs administrations with adequate and effective technical equipment for controlling goods entering and leaving the eu. it will ultimately improve and harmonise the quality of the customs controls. an important element of the ccei is that it shall clearly demonstrate eu added value. the ccei will be implemented in two stages. in the first stage as a short-term approach the existing performance gaps like missing equipment or deficiencies in the control capacities related to clearly identified needs at the border crossing points and customs laboratories shall be filled in. this will contribute to achieving adequate customs controls across the union. in the second stage as a long-term vision we will aim to achieve equivalent levels of customs controls. this will happen through common definitions of customs controls from an equipment perspective where definitely greater standardisation is needed. for that, the commission will propose common standards related to the optimal use of equipment. what equipment should be available, where, how to use it, what is the optimal equipment from a performance perspective, the optimal coverage of customs risks and threats with the equipment, etc. in this context, i want to stress that the equipment purchased under any of the two-step phases will need to be interoperable and information will need to be easily exchangeable across all eu member states customs. in order to reach the ambitious policy objective, the ccei will collect and analyse data to be able to comprehensively map the equipment readiness of all member states. this will feed into the overall vision of improved customs controls. data analysis will be available at a level that previously did not exist within the customs union. without further delay, the commission services are ready to implement the instrument that will contribute to the shared long-term aim of harmonised application of customs controls. and our work does not stop there. we need to be holistic. the commission will provide strong responses beyond the ccei to the recent european court of auditors report which highlights as well the insufficient harmonisation of customs control. we will come up with a proposal to reinforce the legal framework, a new risk management strategy and joint analytics capabilities within olaf and budg. the european parliament is also well aware of our work on the single—window environment for customs on which we need to progress quickly. as you see, there is a lot that can be done at eu level and of course i count on your support to continue pushing member states to take their share of responsibility in this overall ambition of customs control modernisation. i would love to hear your views and i look forward to a fruitful debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, thank you for inviting me to a lively debate on this important subject. why is this an important subject? because the single market is the most important thing we have in the european union. our economy depends on it, and through that economy we can also create a balance. it is good that we are giving financial support to customs to support the weaker partners in the ports here and there and to ensure a level playing field, including at customs level, so that we can prevent illegal and often dangerous products from outside the union from entering the internal market, which in turn also prevents unfair competition. so positive about this piece. but that's not the end of it. we need to think about how we can improve that in the medium or long term, and i have two proposals for that. firstly, we must keep dangerous illegal goods out of the european internal market, but also drugs, because they are coming in from all sides. one possibility is to set up a kind of electronic trawl, which allows us to track the flow of goods across europe so that we can stop the illegal goods at the border, at the ports. but if that's not possible, then we need to know where they're going. and right now, we don't know. secondly, and perhaps most importantly, and i want to end here, frontex has been set up to monitor the borders, and that is mainly because of the refugee crisis. it would be very good if we set up a kind of frontex to help the member states to detect illegal imports and to stop drugs, in order to create a strong internal market.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur and i thank andreas schwab for presenting this report, precisely because a european single market cannot function without ensuring that products made available to consumers do not endanger them. the harmonisation of legislation and requirements for goods produced within the european union must be accompanied by a harmonisation of controls on goods produced in third countries entering the european single market. to this end, we need to ensure that customs have effective equipment and that control arrangements are harmonised across the union. the provision of modern equipment, appropriate software, interoperable at all points of entry of goods into the european union is a sine qua non condition for ensuring a high level of safety in the single market. common conditions and rules for the control of goods in the member states bring about greater predictability in the transport of goods and eliminate the hours or even days of waiting at the borders between member states, as is the case at the border we just crossed today between romania and hungary, where the queue of shooters was again several kilometres long. another challenge for the customs system is the large influx of products entering the european single market via the digital market. if we think about the millions of products that have reached consumers along this path, we realise that the amount of about one billion euros agreed with the council for customs control equipment is only one step and not a complete solution to the challenges we face.
mr president, commissioner, today, in my first speech on the return to normalcy at the european parliament's seat in strasbourg, i would like to thank the chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, mr juan fernando lópez aguilar, and the negotiating team for the agreement reached. with it, we take another step towards restoring the freedom of movement of people in the european union, by lifting the current restrictions in a coordinated way between the member states, while continuing to fight the pandemic with the vaccination campaign progressing at a good pace. the adoption of the certificate, which will be free and in digital or paper format - as we demanded - will not only make life easier for citizens, but will also help boost the economy, employment, travel and transport by being launched before the start of the summer season. ladies and gentlemen, by concluding this agreement in record time, just two months, we have shown that the european project is at the service of citizens and their concerns, by issuing certificates that are secure and verifiable throughout the union. my delegation will vote in favour of the agreement.
mr president, commissioner, the digital green certificate is now becoming a reality. we have shown that the union can move fast and build working solutions, not perfect, not ideal, but functional. it is now up to national governments to do their job and give european citizens the technical tool to allow them to once again exercise their freedom to travel, to work, to live their lives as they wish. this certificate is not a hoax, nor is it the product of any conspiracy. it is essential for the many europeans who, for family or work reasons, are forced to move from one country to another. from cross-border or seasonal workers to freight hauliers, all of them need to be able to travel without stops and restrictions. tourism was also completely paralyzed for a year and a half. without this solution, i don't know how tens of thousands of businesses and hundreds of thousands of people connected to those businesses could survive another compromised tourist season. that's why i believe in the value of the digital green certificate, to reboot the european economy that depends on free movement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of the digital covid-19 certificate is leading to a suppression of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the citizens of the european union, unprecedented since its creation until now, which will turn the eu from a space of freedom into a camp. countries to whom we give lessons in democracy and freedom have refused to introduce such a certificate because it violates fundamental rights and freedoms. each person must be free to make an informed choice as to whether or not to be vaccinated, since he alone bears the risk of such an experimental serum. all the calls for vaccination are not about the health of the population, but about the conditioning of freedom. in an advertisement sponsored by the romanian government, the population is invited to get vaccinated to get their dose of freedom, not health, but freedom. it's come to the eu that freedom equals vaccination. from people born with fundamental rights and freedoms, such as the right to freedom, it has now come to the european union that such rights are conditional on experimental medical products. the introduction of this certificate opens a pandora's box. as i believe in a free and democratic europe, where the rights and freedoms of every person are guaranteed and protected, i will vote against this initiative and invite you to do the same.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). europe will be borrowing on a large scale for the first time, and that offers opportunities for the member states and for the eu. member states can count on support for recovery. but the netherlands is not yet benefiting, afraid of the real reforms that need to be made in tackling tax evasion and the derailed housing market. a missed opportunity, but the eu now has the chance to make society fairer by putting the bill for recovery on big tech and the biggest multinationals. a first step will come next month with the introduction of a levy on digital companies. a second important step will be a europe-wide corporate tax on profits, based on the g7 agreement. i, along with millions of europeans, look forward to the proposals that will allow tax-free multinationals and tech companies, from amazon to booking.com, to finally make a real contribution to our society. because there is one thing we all agree on, from left to right, all those millions of europeans: everyone must contribute and there must be no exception for the biggest multinationals, the big polluters or the well-off. everyone has to contribute.
mr president, commissioner, we are awaiting the proposal for the co2 border adjustment mechanism. the interinstitutional commitment was that this proposal would be on the table of the european parliament in june, but it seems that there will be some delay, and i simply want to say that we cannot delay any longer a proposal so necessary both to combat climate change and to help the industrial sector of our europe. in any case, i would like to add a note on the g7 agreement we had the previous day. that agreement, which forces big companies to tax their profits in the countries where they actually collect the revenue, somehow blurs the need for digital tax. the point is that the digital tax is part of the interinstitutional agreement between the commission, parliament and council, within the framework of the new own resources, to pay off the debt of the next generation eu from the year 2027. and the question is, what are we going to do? if the european union no longer has the resources of this digital tax to pay off the community debt, we need additional channels, and certainly the necessary channel is that some points of this harmonized and consolidated corporate tax with a minimum rate, and according to which companies tax in the jurisdictions where they obtain the profits, go to the community budget. and this has to reopen the interinstitutional agreement, and we hope to have the necessary resources to pay off that debt.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to thank the european parliament for its strong support for the introduction of new own resources. but as some speakers have rightly said, it's not just about putting money in to service the repayment of nextgenerationeu. but the second aspect, of course, is that we want and we have to use these own resources to contribute to climate change in a positive way. europe is leading the way globally here, and we must therefore make our proposals in such a way that they are ultimately compatible with, for example, the wto. this is not a simple exercise, and i ask for your understanding that we need 14 days or two weeks more than originally announced. every day counts here. but the aim must and will be to present a really solid proposal here, one which is also legally well thought out and prepared. we can - and i want to address this - be pleased with the new dynamic in developing globally uniform standards of taxation. but i would appeal to all of us to develop more self-confidence here. in fact, it was europe that started to move in this direction three years ago, putting forward proposals for things like a global digital levy or a corporate tax. and it failed mostly with the trump administration. now a new administration is in office in washington, and thank god that new administration has developed a different view. and instead of saying "finally", we are infinitely grateful that the united states has now developed this new perspective, and is even developing something like admiration for president biden. i have great respect for his announcements, but i believe that in the interests of europe, in our own self-confidence, we should leave the church in the village in the truest sense of the word. that the initiative for its global, uniform, ideally, taxation started in europe and it took some time to convince others, by the way, we're not really there yet. so really an appeal to our own self-confidence. we're in charge here. and i would also ask that we develop a corresponding attention when it comes to minimum tax rates at the national level. there are many countries where taxation is not at national level but at regional level. and so, if there is to be a global agreement - which is very desirable - then we must also ensure that those countries where taxation is at the regional level are also very much involved. i'm thinking about the united states, switzerland, and -- you name it -- there are a few examples in the united kingdom. so if we look at things in principle, we should also be able to classify and evaluate things properly. but again, europe is leading the way and we will be leading the way in proposing new own resources to make a very substantial contribution to combating climate change and to ensuring greater tax justice.
the debate is closed. i would like to greet all the colleagues who are here and who are connected with us. we had some difficulties this morning. you know that technological systems, unfortunately, are not "turnkey". we have to experience them. we have a great organizational machine between our eplo, brussels and strasbourg, and of course i thank you for your patience. i would also like to thank vice-president wieland, who had to deal with this situation this morning, and all the technical services who are working with great professionalism. unfortunately, we need to experiment with our systems, to improve them, we must not stop. of course, all of this takes a little patience, so i wanted to thank you. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. in the context of the negotiations on the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework (mff), a roadmap for the introduction of new union own resources was agreed. for the first time the system was reformed. the three institutions, parliament, the commission and the council, also recognised that the introduction of a basket of new own resources would support the adequate financing of union expenditure and the costs of the next generation eu recovery plan. in this regard, the interinstitutional agreement reached at the end of 2020 established the own resources roadmap including which new own resources are introduced and their timetable: an own resource based on non-recycled plastic packaging waste which entered into force on 1 january this year, a carbon border adjustment mechanism, a digital tax and a european emissions trading system which are expected to be presented by the commission this month and should be introduced by 1 january 2023. the purpose of the plenary debate at this part-session was to keep up the pressure on the commission to implement the agreed own resources roadmap.
in writing. in the context of the negotiations on the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework (mff), a roadmap for the introduction of new union own resources was agreed. for the first time the system was reformed. the three institutions, parliament, the commission and the council, also recognised that the introduction of a basket of new own resources would support the adequate financing of union expenditure and the costs of the next generation eu recovery plan. in this regard, the interinstitutional agreement reached at the end of 2020 established the own resources roadmap including which new own resources are introduced and their timetable: an own resource based on non-recycled plastic packaging waste which entered into force on 1 january this year, a carbon border adjustment mechanism, a digital tax and a european emissions trading system which are expected to be presented by the commission this month and should be introduced by 1 january 2023. the purpose of the plenary debate at this part-session was to keep up the pressure on the commission to implement the agreed own resources roadmap.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on the european parliament's monitoring of the ongoing evaluation by the commission and the council of the national recovery and resilience plans (2021/2738 ((rsp)). i welcome the president of the commission. i also greet minister zacharias on behalf of the council and give her the floor immediately for her speech.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, madam president of the european commission, honourable members, it’s a pleasure to be back in strasbourg and start this debate with this very important dossier for the portuguese presidency. thank you for this opportunity to come back after our debate in may. the recent finalisation of national procedures to ratify the own resources decision came as very welcoming news, facilitating swift progress in the implementation of the rrf, in addition to the other elements of the next generation eu. when we look back, the covid-19 pandemic started more than a year ago. european institutions have together taken unprecedented swift and strong action. first with emergency tools, then with tools designed to boost the recovery and to build a fairer, greener, more sustainable and resilient future. this is where the rrf comes in. these last months have been of intense work for the commission and for member states, and the results are here. to date, 23 member states have submitted recovery and resilience plans to the commission, which has been sharing them with the council and the parliament. these plans have to be in line with the rrf regulation and reflect elements of importance for both this parliament and the council, such as the six pillars, the european added value, the reference to the european pillar of social rights. the right of information is another key element of our joint efforts. the commission has been tasked with properly taking these elements into account in its swift assessments of the plans, while the other institutions will play a key role in ensuring transparency and accountability through regular exchanges with the commission. in this context, the commission has been engaging in frequent exchanges with the parliament on the different horizontal components of the plans, and these outreach activities are very welcome. a thorough and consistent assessment of so many plans, sometimes featuring thousands of pages, constitutes an enormous challenge for the commission. the council is as eager as this parliament to understand how this process evolves, ensuring that we stay within the agreed timeframe. we all know that citizens and businesses are waiting for support and time is of the essence. speed and quality must go hand-in-hand in a transparent way. from the council side, we expect the first official update by the commission on the assessment of the plans in the course of this month of june. once the commission adopts the proposals for the draft council implementing decisions, the council will do its utmost to adopt them as soon as possible to make sure that part of the prefinancing can start flowing to citizens and businesses during this summer. and the presidency is committed to keeping the european parliament informed of this process as appropriate.
president of the commission. it is good to be back in strasbourg. the last plenary session we had in this chamber was in february 2020, over a year ago. and how the world has changed since then! little did we know then that a global pandemic would bring our economies to a standstill, weigh heavily on our societies and disrupt our way of life. this pandemic has cost our societies and our economies a terrible price, there's no doubt about that, but it has also mobilized us. it challenged us to design and implement extraordinary solutions. with the strong support of this parliament and our member states, we have launched unprecedented financial assistance measures and we have done so at record speed. next generation eu empowers our union to invest hundreds of billions in the common recovery we need most and to invest in our common priorities. with next generation eu, we are transforming our continent for decades to come. we are digitising our economies, making the european green deal a reality and making our societies stronger and more resilient. our plan is worth 750 billion euros. it is the biggest recovery project in europe since the marshall plan. this is the revival europe needs today and for the future. honourable members, we succeeded because we realised in this fundamental global crisis that we should not tear ourselves apart in the old patterns. we did not divide into northern europeans, southern europeans, central and eastern europeans, frugals, friends of cohesion. no, i did not. this time we agreed that there is the one and only goal that matters, and that is to fight this pandemic as a european union. already next week, the commission will start approving, indeed, the national plans for council adoption. this is a landmark achievement. from agreeing on next generation eu at our four day summit last july to the approval of the first plans, it took us less than a year. today i want to thank everyone who made that possible. the european parliament, for your support for next generation eu and for the recovery and resilience facility. all 27 member states for the huge amount of work they have put into their plans, and also the more than 300 colleagues at the european commission who are working on these plans day and night, together with their national counterparts and together with you in the european parliament. so after less than a year we're there. our recovery is about to begin. the plans show the way the money will start flowing in the coming weeks. up to now, we have indeed received 23 national plans. these plans send a very clear message. europeans are ready for a new start. our citizens are ready to embrace a more sustainable, a more digital and a more resilient future. that exactly the future we want to build with next generation eu. now, let's dive deep for a moment into these plans, because behind all the spreadsheets and the countless figures you'll see, national plans allow us a glimpse into europe's future. they address structural challenges more comprehensively than ever before. labour market reforms will reinforce social safety nets and inclusion. fiscal reforms will make public finances and tax systems more sustainable. strengthened governance will improve the business environment, especially for smes. and digitisation of education and our economies will boost europe's competitiveness on a global scale. these plans show that europeans have a very clear vision of what is necessary for their future. just let me give you a few examples. for example, the cross-border projects on renewable hydrogen or the precision medicine powered by ai, or the smart clean transport for suburban areas, just to name a few. and let me give you some numbers, first for the protection of nature and climate. today, member states are spending around 50 billion euro on clean energy, for example, for the production of renewable energy or green water. another 50 billion euro is planned for the renovation of the entire range of social housing and administrative buildings. and at least 85 billion euro are used to promote sustainable transport, also the digitalisation of rail infrastructure, the electric car stations, the seamless mobility in our cities. that is exactly the investment we want. because we all know: transport and buildings are today among the largest emitters of greenhouse gas emissions. this means that everything must change, but not everything. and the same dynamics are seen in our next goal, the digitization. the eu is already well on its way to investing more than 20% in digitalisation, as the nextgenerationeu demands. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new 5g-corridor, the broadband infrastructure in rural areas, the digitalisation of public services and the development of modern microprocessors. the whole thing is planned, of which the next generation will in fact benefit. the eu is also working to improve young people's digital skills. they invest in youth workplaces, in dual training, in childcare and in the modernisation of their universities. so, ladies and gentlemen, dear honourable members, now we have to implement these plans, and there, honourable members, i count on you. in recent weeks you have been scrutinising the national plans and you came up with legitimate questions. and we value your contribution. we will continue to meet regularly for our structured dialogue and we need your scrutiny. it's the very first time that we do this. so let's make it right. let's get it right, because, as always, parliament is our partner when it comes to improving our european union. our experts at the commission will continue to be available to discuss with you. they carefully assess whether each and every national plan meets the objectives we have agreed upon. and let us remind ourselves: 20% at least in digitisation, 37% at least in the european green deal, these objectives are set in stone. and from what we see so far, if anything, quite a number of plans are even more ambitious. honourable members, with next generation eu we decided to make our recovery a european recovery. the next generation eu can deliver so much more than 27 individual recovery plans ever could, and this will further unite our union. we europeans are in this crisis together. we will come out of it together. we will come out stronger than ever before. next generation eu has shown how much we can achieve when we all work together. so with more confidence than ever, i say long live europe! (applause) i would like to thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank president von der leyen very much for coming personally today to the european parliament to discuss with us the recovery and resilience facility. during the next years the european union will spend more money than ever from the traditional budget of the european union and from next generation eu, which we have jointly decided to create. one thing is clear: the more money we spend, the more we need to make sure that money really reaches the people for whom it is intended. that we manage to modernise hospitals, to digitise schools, to support people, enterprises and regions affected by the pandemic. the more we spend, the more control we need, the more democratic legitimacy we need, and the more transparency we need. sometimes for decision-makers, transparency requires making an extra effort, but transparency is the right thing to do. people deserve to know how people’s money is being spent. the commission is rightly assessing now the national plans of the 27 member states, and the european parliament is scrutinising this assessment process. what is the european parliament requesting? what are our expectations ? firstly, we call on the european commission to strictly apply the letter and the spirit of the regulation through which the recovery and resilience facility was created: an extensive and meticulous assessment of all of the plans. the plans should meet all the criteria of the regulation and there should be no political concessions. we expect a balance between investments and reforms, and reforms should also start now. we spoke a lot about investments, about the amounts of the money spent, but reforms are equally important. reforming means strengthening the european union, and we count on the commission to really be an advocate for reform processes at national level. likewise, investments have to be future-oriented, as you also described them yourself. they have to help the economy of the european union to modernise. we as a parliament will adopt this week a resolution about the assessment of the commission. it will be a proactive resolution on the basis of the regulation. and one thing is certain: the entire response of the european union to this pandemic will be judged based on the efficiency of the recovery and resilience facility. it is our duty to make this a success from day one and to give people a clear signal that this instrument will help those affected, and it will also make our economies and our societies more resilient towards shocks in the future.
the european union has a great opportunity and a great risk. the recovery plan agreed in july 2020 represents the great opportunity. the adoption of own resources by the twenty-seven and the issuing of the first 80 billion bonds this year by the commission represent a giant leap forward in the integration of the union. a decade after the social democrats proposed the embryo of a european treasury, the states will for the first time jointly borrow to achieve ecological and digital recovery and to help those most affected by the pandemic. it is now up to the commission to assess urgently the 27 national plans to guarantee the 150 billion per annum until 2026 and the council to approve the first aid package next july. because there is also a great risk, and this would be the delay in the implementation of the plan, because any delay that is imposed now will fan the ashes of populism if a part of the population feels abandoned by this recovery. the future of young people will be decided by the outcome of digital and energy revolutions capable of overcoming the current model of economic growth prone to inequality. we cannot forget that the pandemic has hit the most vulnerable, destroying jobs, increasing hunger queues, and that, in addition, it has hit women harder. it is therefore essential that all national plans incorporate the gender indicators agreed in porto as well as the social objectives. i hear a lot on the right of this house about reforms. of course, we all agree that we need reform, but it has to be reforms that address the strengthening of our welfare state so that we can respond to those who need it most. they are confident that the european parliament will have a say in the economic governance of the recovery plan to ensure maximum transparency. but we social democrats will not allow the conservatives and liberals to use the recovery to reimpose the austerity that has impoverished millions of europeans over the past decade. what we have to do is ensure that this recovery plan, moreover, can go in line with what the citizenry needs and is asking for. the commission, the council and this parliament must be firmly committed to making a great leap forward with a great social pact similar to that created by the welfare state after the second world war. it's in our hands. let us take our responsibility and give this great opportunity that european citizens need.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we are to emerge from the pandemic strong and resilient, it is important that we invest and invest massively to achieve a sustainable recovery. but still, four comments. one, a large portion of the repair costs are donations and not loans. as member states do not have to repay the aid they receive individually, there is a real risk that a lack of involvement will undermine the effectiveness of the measures. two, the pandemic has temporarily brought us to a standstill, but the structural challenges, of course, remain the same as they were before the pandemic. the recovery plan provides for important reforms and i think that needs to be monitored. thirdly, the recovery plan is always about the billions that will be spent, but of course the quality of spending is the first thing. and that is where the commission has a very important role to play, which is to monitor and control quality properly. my fourth and final point is that i want to stress that the recovery plan is an excellent idea. unfortunately, we have seen too many examples of improper use of eu spending in the past. these excesses undermine the credibility of the joint project, and the risks associated with this rff are unprecedented in this field. we're gonna be spending a shitload of money in record time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
on behalf of the left group. the european recovery fund, mrs von der leyen, is a positive step forward. that is why all the political groups in the european parliament, from the left to the parliamentary right, with the sad exception of the far right, support it because we want to achieve a sustainable recovery of the economy, to reduce the disparities between the rich and the poor and between the rich and the poorest member states. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why we are preparing to adopt a resolution in the european parliament by a very large majority calling for the reduction of inequalities, the increase of transparency, the removal of the cycles of corruption and fragmentation, the support of the welfare state and recovery, and for this money not only to go into the pockets of the few and the powerful, but also to small and mediumsized enterprises, public health, public education and the regions, so that all of society is involved in this recovery and not just a few rich and powerful people benefit from the community's money.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the european parliament is misled when it wants to go beyond its legislative powers of consultation to assess the national recovery plans of individual member states. we could say that this is the usual internal inter-institutional battle of the majority in parliament, but this effort is an attempt to prevent the swift approval of the recovery plans. the left-wing majority in the ep wants to politicise it, to make the approval of national recovery plans a matter of party politics and ideology, rather than the commission and then the council doing this work on a professional basis. this effort is an assault on the impartial approval of the restoration plans. the draft also includes the well-known political attacks by the poor countries against the southern member states, which they declare irresponsible, and the contemptuous political attacks by the western member states against the countries of central and eastern europe. these divisive texts are also an attack on european unity.
mr president, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! the idea behind the building and resilience facility was to enable member states to exit the crisis. the aim is to lay the foundations for long-term growth for future generations and to create genuine european added value, which is what we have always wanted to see in this parliament. that sounds good in theory, no doubt. but if you look at the plans that have been presented so far, it quickly becomes clear that reality is a little different from theory. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. instead of launching new investments in competitiveness, old projects were simply re-dedicated. crossborder projects with genuine european added value really need to be looked at with a magnifying glass. in addition, almost all member states show a very clear commitment to reform. this is a huge problem, because money can hide structural problems, but it cannot solve them. and it was in our interest to make sure that reforms were also linked to this. and that, madam president of the commission, is what i expect the commission to do, to make sure that before the first cheques are distributed, that investment and reform go hand in hand so that this continent can really emerge stronger from this crisis, people can have a job and we can move towards a good future together.
mr president, mr vice-president dombrovskis, mrs minister zacarias, we have 23 recovery plans already submitted and we are now entering that crucial phase where the commission has to assess them and send its proposal for approval or rejection by the council. i think we are all satisfied, in general terms, with the agreement and the criteria we approved in the recovery plan. it was an extremely difficult negotiation in which every word of the rules was loaded with meaning. and so we want to remind the commission, at this stage of evaluation, of some crucial points for us. firstly, we naturally expect the commission to be absolutely objective and to analyse the national plans on the basis of uniform criteria, and to respect the letter and spirit of the regulation. and in this connection i would like to stress that our agreement includes six pillars where the areas of intervention have to be defined. the digital transformation and the green transition are obviously two of the most important pillars, which also have specific quantitative objectives and also their own methodology. the principle of non-harm must be applied rigorously, but as i said, our regulation also has other objectives which we must value. and we are very concerned about social balance, because it is not only one of the pillars of the plan, but it is transversal to all policies. and i remind you that the leaders at the porto summit stressed and recognised the importance of the european pillar of social rights as a fundamental element of recovery plans. i am not talking about gender policies, because in the 21st century i find the commission a little lost. i do not know whether it is a lack of capacity or a lack of will, or both, but the court of auditors has been very clear. indicators are missing, objectives are missing, disaggregated data are missing and, where they exist, they are not being used. so, please, let's use the recovery plan to put them in as well. if we have done anything right in this crisis, it is to have a totally different response than in 2008. so this investment plan has to prove it, and let's not try to twist it to go back to policies of the past.
mr president, i think that the ratification of the own resources decision is a historic moment. we are finally going to be able to make the first payments as early as july and i think that is what our economies need at this moment: that we be as agile as possible. it is true that there are some things that the greens are concerned about in the recovery plans, as another member has said before. madam president of the commission, there are some plans that are not going to meet the target of devoting 37% of spending to climate objectives. the principle of 'not causing significant damage' has not been respected. we are also concerned, for example, that gender equality is not well integrated and analysed in national plans. i therefore believe that you have a few weeks left in which to analyse the plans carefully and actually enforce the regulation, because it is true that in some cases we are very concerned. i didn't want to get into national policy debates. i also believe that the worst way to deal with the debate in europe on the recovery fund is to bring our national disputes here. but since the spanish plan has been mentioned, i have to say that it is probably the most reformist ambition of all the plans that have been put forward. and the reform agenda of the spanish plan is going to be without a doubt the greatest that has been made throughout history. with reforms of all kinds: tax, labour, all kinds. i think for some the problem is not that they criticize the reforms because there are none - that there are some - it is that they do not like the kind of reforms that are in the plan. so i say very clearly: if anyone wants the spanish plan to be associated with pension cuts or greater deregulation and precariousness of the labour market, let him say so openly. but i certainly believe that with the recovery fund neither the commission nor parliament wants to go back to the times of the troika. those days are over. now we must look to the future.
the first round of voting is now under way. the votes on the dossiers will be taken as indicated in the agenda. the voting period will run as scheduled from 1 p.m. to 2.15 p.m. the vote will be taken in accordance with the same procedure as in previous voting periods. all votes will therefore be cast by roll-call. i declare the voting period open. you can vote until 2:15 p.m. the results of the first round of voting will be announced at 7 p.m.
mr president, it is a fact that science and medicine have moved much faster to find effective responses to the covid crisis than politics. in less than a year, science found the vaccines to deal with it, and in a year, more than a billion people were vaccinated. this is not the case with the economic vaccine. during the same period, the european institutions and the states have barely succeeded in defining recovery strategies and presenting national plans, but still with many unknowns. it is not clear whether they are engaged in an economy based on large oligopolies, as in spain, or on creative entrepreneurial nodes spread throughout the territory. in spain, this economic vaccine will strengthen the large groups which are not required to comply with certain european obligations. large companies that will benefit from the stimulus money owe billions of euros to smes, in flagrant violation of the european directive on late payment. we can't have that.
mr president, dear commissioner, madam secretary of state, ana paula zacarias, national recovery and resilience plans cannot be a missed opportunity. they must contribute to the recovery, resilience, competitiveness and productivity of the european union and, at the same time, to territorial, economic and social cohesion. one of the objectives must be quality employment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i hope, commissioner, that the national recovery plans will not be a bazooka for the states and a vitamin for the economy. these plans must be additional and cannot replace the expenditure of the state budget. in this sense, these plans must also be complementary to the existing funds. that is why, madam secretary of state, i think it would be unacceptable for a government like portugal's to be discussing portugal 2030, or the partnership agreement that has more than 30 billion, with the european commission behind the portuguese, without articulating it with the national recovery and resilience plan. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, i think that we should first of all welcome the adoption, by all the member states, of this decision on own resources which will enable the european commission in the coming weeks to start issuing community debt and, in turn, to start the processes of approving the national plans and transferring the advances. i think there is no better example of europe working than having this instrument, this recovery and resilience mechanism, working already. and i think that this instrument will certainly help, from a macro perspective, to rehabilitate and reactivate the union's economy, but it also has, as has already been said, a micro perspective, to improve the growth capacity and competitiveness of our economy. and that is why it is important that europe is green, that europe is moving quickly towards meeting the objectives of the paris agreement, and it is also important that we tackle the digitalisation of the european economy. but i would like to draw attention to a subject which perhaps does not have the presence that some of us think it should have, and which is none other than the principles and values which have underpinned the process of european construction itself from its inception. and i am talking about the european social model, i am talking about the social market economy, which social democrats, but also, and very importantly, christian democrats, have put at the root of the european project. and so, next generation eu and the recovery and resilience facility must not only help build a green europe and a digital europe, but they also have to contribute in a fundamental way to keeping alive the european promise, the promise of a land with social cohesion, with territorial cohesion, that is, the promise of the european social model. and national plans must, of course, be aligned with digitalisation and the green adventure, but they must also fulfil and keep alive that social promise that makes us european and that sets us apart in the world.
mr president, as a co-rapporteur of the european parliament on the recovery and resilience facility, i look back with great satisfaction on what we have accomplished together in this year, and it’s a good thing. we spoke on behalf of 450 million eu citizens in one voice and managed to launch the largest financial instrument ever created by the european union. my wish – our wish – is that three years from now we will look back at this facility and see it as a successful legacy. but in order to achieve this, member states need to respect the rrf regulation, including three solid principles that this house, and especially renew europe – our group – put forward and fought hard for during the negotiation. first, national plans need democratic accountability. the european parliament will fully exercise its scrutiny rights until the end of this facility, and in this process it will involve and use the expertise of all eu stakeholders, because only together with all the representatives of eu citizens will we be able to transform the ambition of this facility into reality. second, 27 national plans need to generate eu value added. we created six pillars of reforms and investment to foster economic convergence, social and territorial cohesion across the eu. we can only do this if we reform and invest in all of the six pillars. and last but not least, please remember that this instrument was created for the next generation. children and youth will always need to be at the core of our plans. we owe them a decent, sustainable and digital and prosperous future. this is what the resolution is about.
madam president, with 400 arrests in just five months, belarus was the most dangerous country in europe for attacks on journalists in 2020, according to reporters without borders. in 2021, in six months, the lukashenko regime went from targeted terror to widespread terror, endangering all european citizens, first with the ostrovets nuclear power plant incident and more recently with the precedent-setting hijacking of a passenger plane on a european route. but with all the warnings and sanctions of the union, alexander lukashenko marches on. why would you do that? because lukashenko is not alone. he's embraced in every sense of the word, publicly and ostentatiously, by his great sponsor, vladimir putin. and more recently, turkey is advising him on tactics to fight the european union. i am in favour of tightening sanctions against this dictator, but that, i fear, will not save roman protasevich quickly enough, nor all the other opponents who are still in prison in a country that has become a big prison itself. lukashenko's sponsors must be stopped one way or another. otherwise, five years from now, we'll still be here, talking about him.
mr president, commissioner, congratulations, mr rapporteur, i think this is an important moment and a message that europe is waiting for from strasbourg, because we finally have a very important and effective instrument that is aimed at a category of extremely vulnerable citizens who need our involvement and our help. i also believe that we, both parliament and the commission, need to communicate more about these extraordinary policies that the european union has for its citizens. we need such powerful tools because young people, children, expect more opportunities from us, and i think that in this crisis generated by the coronavirus pandemic we have had many examples where we have shown solidarity and responsibility, and i am convinced that this instrument, the european social fund plus, will bring prosperity, increase opportunities and give new perspectives to the young generation, because, until now, we have little talked about the fact that since 2013 all our youth policies have worked and have lowered the unemployment rate. we need to continue these policies because in a europe with a green and digital economy we need all citizens to feel safe. no one should be left behind, that's the principle we should be guided by. congratulations again to the reporter!
mr president, the right of the european parliament to conduct investigations is more than a prerogative of this institution in which we find ourselves and more than my right to speak on this subject now. it is, in fact, the right to information of the 450 million europeans who voted directly for this parliament, and a lack of communication between parliament and the council should not be paid for by the citizens. i therefore believe that after seven years of deadlock, it is urgent to resume discussions on this subject and to find a firm compromise, otherwise the failure will not be that of just one of these institutions, but that of the european union as a whole, of our society and of european values. however, i believe that, along with the right to investigate, the european parliament must also set its responsibilities, that is to say define very clearly how these investigations should be conducted because without an absolute balance between rights and responsibilities, the limits risk being breached and when this happens, the temptation to abuse a temporary power also arises. as a former journalist, i know that the ends do not justify the means, if that means violating the truth and ignoring the facts, and the abuse of power does not mean investigation and vice versa: our supreme duty is to those who sent us to represent them in the european parliament, and to them we owe not only the truth, but also a clear understanding of their reality and, above all, solutions adapted to that reality.
madam president, climate change is no longer a future scenario, and when it overlaps with a health crisis, it wreaks havoc. 2020 has been a disastrous year in both images and statistics, and unfortunately, the fishing industry is not exempt from the bill. eur 12 billion in losses and the prospect of fish stocks halving by 2100. this is what the intergovernmental panel on climate change shows. the fisheries sector in general and aquaculture in particular can be a powerful ally in the fight against climate change. it just needs to be properly equipped to face the battle, and that means including subsidies from the future european fisheries fund. as they are on the front line of this battle alongside farmers, aquaculture and fisheries must be treated equally and have the same funding options as farmers. i am sorry to see that the european commission is still reluctant on this point, but i hope that by the end of the negotiations on the future european fisheries fund, fishermen and fish farmers will still benefit from the same financial opportunities. otherwise, we risk not only paying off their bill, but endangering their security...
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the seas of the world are suffering the consequences of climate change. the mediterranean sea is a particularly vulnerable basin: it's a closed, shallow sea that's rapidly warming. the consequences for biodiversity and for small-scale coastal fishing are devastating. the situation is serious in countries such as italy, where 70% of the fleet is made up of small-scale coastal fisheries, but where resources are limited to meet these challenges. the commission must protect and support small-scale coastal fishing, and the sustainable management of fisheries resources. even in the light of the shortcomings of the member states, we can see, for example, the shortcomings in the allocation of fishing opportunities, the agreement reached on the emff funds, the delays in distributing the support for the stocks to the fishermen. the management of marine protected areas should be encouraged, with the active and mandatory involvement of fishermen. we would thus increase the resilience of the seas to climate change and offer them the opportunity to diversify their activities. does the commission intend to protect them? what do you mean, "what"?
madam president, commissioner, climate change is a challenge that requires resilience and adaptation. the design of such resilience and adaptability implies a global and integrated approach that also includes fishing activities, so that they are part of the collective effort for the sustainability and regeneration of nature. but in combating climate change and the oceans, action must be coordinated with all the partners involved. however important and ambitious the measures applied to fleets or aquaculture enterprises may be, they will not have the desired effect if similar measures with the same degree of rigor are not also implemented by all global partners. the european union must therefore work with regional fisheries organisations to ensure that actions are implemented with at least the same ambition as the measures imposed on fishermen and aquaculture producers.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank you and the honourable members for this fruitful – and i must say very instructive – debate with a lot of symbolism, because we were just reminded that today is world oceans day. it’s important to reflect on the challenges. the impacts of climate change are becoming more and more visible in our coastal regions and, as all the speakers have pointed out, it is true that our fishermen and fisherwomen are the first to feel the detrimental effects. therefore, i think we all agree that the climate resilience of the fisheries and aquaculture sectors must be fostered. to this end, the new eu strategy on adaptation to climate change sets out a number of key measures which will protect our marine ecosystems and ensure sustainable fisheries in the long term. our european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund will provide for the necessary financial support to the fishing and aquaculture sector during this transition. these measures will also ensure our credibility at international level, where the commission will push for climate considerations in all ocean—related negotiations. therefore, the commission takes very good note of all your comments and interventions. together we will put in place the right policies responding to this major challenge to save a sector that is important, i would say, also from a cultural point of view, and not only an economic one: our fisheries.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the extraordinary meeting of the european council of 24 and 25 may 2021 (2021/2743 ((rsp)). i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. as in previous partsession, the european parliament's national liaison offices will also be involved in remote work. i welcome commission president von der leyen and president charles michel, who i shall give the floor to immediately to begin our debate.
president of the european council. – mr president, hijacking a plane is piracy. with 171 passengers on board, it’s kidnapping. when these acts are carried out by a state, it is hostage-taking and state piracy. why? to get hold of a young journalist and his partner whose free speech is intolerable to mr lukashenko. we had to react quickly and strongly, and we did. we quickly agreed to adopt sanctions against the belarusian regime, commensurate with the gravity of the event. these include additional individual sanctions, targeted economic measures and a ban on belarusian airlines. we also called on european airlines to avoid belarusian airspace – a recommendation that was immediately followed. in the wake of this decision, the united kingdom and the united states took similar measures. i would like to emphasise three clear messages. the first is for raman pratasevich and all political prisoners: the eu will not rest until you are released. the second is for mr lukashenko: mr pratasevich must be released immediately. until then, we hold you responsible for his physical and mental health. our third message is to the belarusian people, especially to those fighting for democracy, freedom of expression and media freedom: the eu stands by you and we will continue our direct support for your struggle to choose your destiny. dear colleagues, as we did last year on china, we had a strategic debate on our relationship with russia and we were unanimous in condemning russia’s illegal, provocative and disruptive activities. but above all, we have given ourselves time for a high-quality debate and i would like to explain the method, the objectives and the first resolutions. first, the method. the relationship between the eu and russia is complex, and every complex and strategic choice must begin with building our collective intelligence. this takes time, but saves time in the long run. once we share a common analysis, it’s easier to take a collective decision. we are then stronger because we are more united. during our strategic discussion, the leaders shared their views and experience with russia without reservation. russia has created a string of conflicts in its neighbourhood and beyond; faced with that, we have often reacted, rather than acted proactively. rather than reacting to what we do not want, we must first decide what we do want from russia. we need to better define our strategic objectives and how best to achieve them, and this must be done in accordance with the five guiding principles on which we have already agreed. they remain as valid as ever: implementation of the minsk agreements, strengthening relations with eastern partners, strengthening the union’s resilience, selective cooperation with russia on issues of interest to the union, and the need for people-to-people contact and support for russian civil society. we will continue this work at our next meeting based on the report we have requested from the commission and the high representative, which will contain concrete options and scenarios. monsieur le président, madame la présidente, chers collègues, nous avons aussi eu l’occasion à nouveau d’aborder la crise sanitaire, cette pandémie qui nous frappe. et je résumerais le sentiment autour de la table du conseil européen de la manière suivante: c’est un optimisme prudent qui nous habite. d’une part, nous voyons bien que nous avons réussi à augmenter la capacité de production de vaccins et la délivrance de vaccins. c’est un pas dans la bonne direction. mais, d’autre part, nous comprenons qu’il faut rester vigilants et suivre la situation, notamment en lien avec le risque de mutants et de variants. des progrès ont également été réalisés en lien avec le certificat covid. nous avons salué les accords qui ont été enregistrés sur le sujet, notamment avec le parlement européen. nous allons continuer à travailler, à faire en sorte que l’on puisse progressivement restaurer la libre circulation des personnes, avec une attention particulière pour les impacts économiques qui y sont liés, notamment dans certains pays qui sont directement concernés par le secteur touristique. optimisme prudent: c’est évidemment le sentiment largement partagé autour de la table. il y a un autre point qui a été longuement abordé durant ce conseil européen, c’est l’engagement international de l’union européenne. c’est du bon sens, nous savons que nous ne serons pas en sécurité tant que le monde entier ne sera pas en sécurité face à cette crise. et c’est la raison pour laquelle nous sommes totalement convaincus que l’union européenne ne doit pas rougir des choix qui ont été opérés depuis le début. c’est l’union européenne, sur le plan international, qui, en premier lieu, a décidé de mobiliser des moyens pour la recherche de façon massive et sans précédent pour réussir en moins d’un an à produire des vaccins. c’est l’union européenne qui a fait le choix de maintenir des exportations de vaccins, et en moyenne c’est 50 % des vaccins produits sur le sol européen qui ont été exportés. vous vous souvenez que nous avons parfois été critiqués par certains observateurs et par les citoyens, qui ont eu le sentiment que nous ne progressions pas suffisamment vite sur le terrain de l’administration des vaccins. c’est l’union européenne qui a initié l’initiative covax pour faire en sorte qu’il y ait une capacité de solidarité financière pour commander des vaccins. mais il y a un enjeu central maintenant sur lequel nous voulons travailler, avec un engagement très fort marqué par la commission européenne: c’est augmenter les capacités de production, augmenter les capacités de résilience, y compris dans le cadre de partenariats concrets, spécialement avec le continent africain et particulièrement avec certains pays qui sont engagés sur le continent africain. je n’oublie pas l’importance de prendre en compte l’amérique latine, qui est aussi une région pour laquelle il est important de travailler sur des capacités pharmaceutiques plus fortes à moyen terme et à long terme. cela inclut bien sûr des débats en lien avec la propriété intellectuelle, mais aussi des débats en lien avec les transferts de savoir-faire et les transferts de technologie. nous allons continuer à être engagés sur ce sujet, qui est évidemment un sujet important. nous avons aussi eu l’occasion d’aborder la question du climat. vous vous souviendrez que, après cette décision forte qui a été prise il y a 18 mois, sur la neutralité climat en 2050, la diplomatie climatique que nous activons au quotidien pour convaincre d’autres partenaires d’avoir une ambition forte en matière climatique, nous avons pris la décision il y a quelques mois de renforcer aussi nos objectifs à l’horizon 2030. nous mesurons bien qu’au-delà de l’objectif, qui est partagé, un enjeu important était de savoir comment on va réussir à atteindre cet objectif ambitieux. c’est la raison pour laquelle le conseil européen a souhaité avoir ce débat intense afin de sensibiliser la commission européenne quant aux différentes préoccupations, aux différents points de vue, aux différents points de départ au sein de l’union européenne en lien avec cet objectif ambitieux. nous faisons confiance à la commission pour déposer prochainement des propositions qui seront traitées dans le cadre législatif et nous avons considéré que, dans un moment approprié, le conseil européen reviendrait sur le débat politique en lien avec cette ambition de progresser afin de faire reculer cette menace climatique. nous avons aussi eu l’occasion d’aborder brièvement, et pour la première fois depuis le brexit, la relation entre l’union européenne et le royaume-uni. je voudrais résumer en quelques mots le sentiment et la position exprimés par le conseil européen. nous croyons profondément à l’état de droit. «pacta sunt servanda»: quand des accords sont conclus, ils doivent être mis en œuvre de bonne foi. et le message, c’est l’expression d’une force tranquille européenne: nous souhaitons être un partenaire loyal, engagé pour une relation positive, fructueuse, constructive avec le royaume-uni. c’est le souhait qui nous a toujours habité, tout au long de cette négociation au cours de laquelle nous avons été capables de démontrer notre ferme unité. mais nous sommes aussi prêts à utiliser les différents moyens à notre disposition pour protéger nos intérêts, pour garantir l’intégrité du marché intérieur, pour faire en sorte que les accords soient respectés et pour protéger aussi, bien sûr, le «good friday agreement», et nous avons répété notre solidarité vis-à-vis de l’irlande. enfin, si vous le permettez, en quelques instants – et je ne veux pas abuser du temps de parole, monsieur le président –, je sais que vous aurez tout à l’heure un débat sur le g7 et les sommets internationaux et je voudrais en quelques mots tracer les perspectives pour ces réunions dans les prochains jours. il y a, à mon avis, un paradoxe auquel nous avons été confrontés les derniers mois. d’une part, le monde a été pratiquement mis à l’arrêt sur le plan économique, sur le plan de nos capacités de mobilité. mais dans le même temps, cette pandémie a montré, avec une force rarement atteinte, l’importance de la coopération internationale, et nous avons observé ces derniers mois un renforcement des dynamiques de coopération internationale. cette coopération internationale, cet engagement multilatéral sont en fait l’adn de ce projet européen, et ce sera encore le cas dans les prochains jours et les prochaines semaines, avec cette activité intense. trois points me semblent importants dans le cadre de la réunion du g7, dans le cadre du sommet avec le canada ou encore avec les états-unis, la semaine prochaine. le premier point, ce sont nos valeurs fondamentales. nous le voyons bien, on en débat aujourd’hui, vous en débattez régulièrement dans cette assemblée: nos modèles de sociétés libérales sont mis sous pression. il y a des tentatives permanentes, et décuplées ces dernières années, de démontrer la fragilité, la faiblesse, l’inefficacité de ce modèle de démocratie libérale, qui, pourtant, a démontré dans l’histoire sa capacité de donner de la liberté, de donner de l’innovation, de donner de la capacité de prospérité. nous devons, comme je le disais pour la russie, non pas simplement subir les chocs, les attaques et les coups portés par ceux qui n’aiment pas ce modèle fondé sur la liberté, l’émancipation et la non-discrimination, mais nous devons porter avec plus d’engagement, de manière plus stratégique, plus proactive, cette promotion de nos valeurs de liberté et de démocratie. ces points seront évidemment au cœur de ces réunions internationales. le deuxième point qui me paraît important, c’est la prospérité. comment peut-on améliorer les conditions de vie? c’est le débat sur les transitions climatiques, digitales, c’est le débat sur la fiscalité internationale, et l’union européenne a été à l’avant-garde sur ces sujets-là. c’est l’union européenne – souvent le parlement européen, d’ailleurs – qui a mis à l’agenda, d’abord européen et puis international, cette question d’équité dans les échanges économiques, dans les échanges commerciaux, dans la question de la fiscalité internationale. ce thème progresse, on le voit, avec un premier pas au travers de cette réunion ministérielle dans le cadre du g7 et la capacité de faire progresser un certain nombre d’idées pour amener plus d’équité dans la fiscalité des entreprises sur le plan international. le troisième point, c’est bien sûr la sécurité et la stabilité. comment peut-on travailler pour prévenir les conflits, pour réduire les risques de conflits et pour anticiper les risques d’escalade? comment peut-on, quand il y a un conflit, coopérer pour tenter de résoudre les difficultés et tenter de dégager des solutions durables? nous connaissons les différents foyers dans le monde pour lesquels nous, union européenne, avons intérêt à ramener la stabilité et à coopérer avec nos partenaires afin de pouvoir engranger des résultats. voilà, monsieur le président, madame la présidente, mesdames et messieurs les parlementaires, les quelques messages que je souhaitais partager avec vous. je suis bien sûr dans l’attente de vos réactions, de vos remarques et observations et prêt à réagir ensuite.
president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we discussed yesterday in the european parliament how nextgenerationeu can help us to overcome the crisis in europe. today, i want to give you an overview of the next steps that we're going to take globally to finally get this crisis behind us. i would like to inform you in particular of the results. first of all, the results of our g20 health summit in rome, and then of course the eu special summit a few days later. and i want to talk about the initiatives that we are planning with our friends at the g7 summit in cornwall at the end of the week and then again next tuesday when charles michel and i welcome us president joe biden to the summit in brussels. these meetings not only highlight the multilateral approach that we have always taken in the crisis - it was not easy, but we have taken it - but these meetings are also, of course, a very, very good opportunity to show that our transatlantic alliance is renewed, that it is strong and that it is good for the people both in the united states and in europe. our immediate focus in all these meetings is, of course, on beating covid-19 everywhere, ending the pandemic and rebuilding our economies. the dominant topic in all the meetings and summits we've had together, and so in those ahead of us, is vaccines and equal and fair access to vaccines globally. that is why mario draghi and i convened the g20 global health summit, on the one hand, for the lessons learned, and on the other hand, for concrete pledges. in their own declaration, the leaders gave a very strong signal. they had three main points in the g20 rome declaration. first of all, they committed to boosting production capacity in low- and middle-income countries, and i'll come back to this later. then, of course, the second topic was tackling bottlenecks in the supply chains. indeed, if you look at the rome declaration, you'll see it's a plea for seamless flows of vaccines and components. we know we're not there yet, but the rome declaration marked the very first time that there was a commitment to that, and we committed to investing in a global surveillance and early warning system, knowing that we had failed in this regard at the beginning of the pandemic. but, as i've said, in the short term the dominant topic is vaccine supply in low- and middle-income countries, and there are three strands we're following up. the first one is indeed covax. it's good that we have covax. as charles michel said, the european union was one of the main founders of covax. up to eur 3 billion has been invested in covax by pledge from team europe so far. but, at the moment, money is not so much the problem with covax; it's more access to vaccines in kind. therefore, in addition, team europe has pledged to donate at least 100 million doses of vaccines by the end of the year. moving to the second strand, i'm convinced we have to engage the private sector more in this regard. at the health summit, we worked with our industrial partners, and it was good to see that the industrial partners publicly committed to delivering 1.3 billion doses of vaccines by the end of the year to low- and middle-income countries -- at nonprofit to low-income countries and at low cost to middle-income countries. so it's good to see that public announcement. we can keep track and we can make sure with scrutiny that 1.3 billion doses are delivered under these circumstances by the end of the year. indeed, the third pillar is the export of vaccines. we can't just keep the whole production for ourselves, and europe has proven that it is possible to vaccinate your own people and to allow for export. since january, we have been exporting almost half of our production. to put that in numbers, out of 600 million doses of vaccine produced here in europe, around 300 million doses have been exported to over 90 countries so far. if all the other vaccine producers had followed our example, the world would be a different place today. in the course of this discussion, of course the question of the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) has been raised recently. when the us administration put forward its thoughts, we said we were open to discussion. now, just four weeks later, we have put forward a new global trade initiative at the wto, aiming to deliver more equitable access to vaccines and therapeutics. this initiative has three elements. the first is we want clear rules to keep supply chains open and to eliminate export restrictions on vaccines and, of course, all the components that are necessary to produce these vaccines. so clear rules in the wto to introduce discipline if there are export obstacles. second, we want to help ramp up production not only in europe, but also in africa and elsewhere. for that, we need to ensure, again in the wto, clear rules to ensure the necessary transfer of technologies and know-how in emergencies. here i want to be very clear: i think intellectual property has to be protected, because it is the idea behind the breakthrough and retains the incentives for innovation in research and development. voluntary licences are, of course, the most effective way to facilitate expanding production, and at the g20 global health summit in rome, leaders reaffirmed this assessment. however and this is a big however in a global emergency like this pandemic, if voluntary licensing fails, compulsory licensing has to be, and is, the legitimate tool to scale up production. this is why, together with the wto, we want to clarify and simplify the use of compulsory licensing in times of national emergency. we discussed this proposal yesterday at the wto. vaccine production of course requires a lot of know-how. we all know that. these are very complicated biological processes. they require know-how, technology, skilled personnel and, of course, infrastructure. i don't think that you get there by simply waiving intellectual property rights. it's actually by collaboration and, if need be, compulsory licensing that you enhance technology transfer. the patent does not tell the whole story. a patent explains part of the production process and don't get me wrong it shouldn't stand in the way. so there are provisions for that in our proposal in the wto. but you need to have more when it comes to these kinds of complex products. this is why europe started this initiative in the wto to simplify compulsory licensing. this is why europe committed eur 1 billion to creating, together with our african partners and our industrial partners, manufacturing hubs in different regions in africa. at a certain point in time, we will certainly come back to this discussion. the g7 meeting will be a good opportunity to reaffirm our commitments and all the more so. at the g7, we will also discuss the economic impact of the covid-19 crisis, in particular for some of the poorest countries on the planet, because our recovery must work for all. according to the united nations, more than 34 million people are currently on the brink of famine. we must strengthen the world food systems. this is why the european union, at the g7, has committed to providing a new humanitarian aid of €250 million to fight hunger. for example, we want to donate almost 50 million euros to the countries of the sahel region and east africa, regions hard hit by the economic consequences of the pandemic and by climate change, that is to say, droughts, floods, extreme weather conditions. we all know the phenomenon. climate change is happening and science is leaving no room for doubt: there is no time to waste. and that is why, despite the pandemic, europe chooses to accelerate the ecological transition by adopting a sustainable recovery plan. because even a global warming of 1.5°c would have serious consequences, particularly in the less developed regions of the world. this is why words must now be followed by tangible action across all sectors of our economies and our societies. you know that we are going to present the 'fit for 55' package in mid-july, and i am glad that, at the special meeting of the european council at the end of may, heads of state and government, in the first discussion on the overall package, showed broad support, because europe wants to lead the way in this transition towards an economy that gives more to the planet than it takes away. we want to broker the same ambition at global level. clear commitments followed by equally clear action, in particular in alignment with the g7 and the united states in the g7, would be very welcome, and it is time to do that now. with the us, we will not only grow our common trade and investment relationship in support of the green and digital transition of our economies but, together, we will also engage with our international partners for a shared commitment and joint action to reduce emissions by 2030 and to have tangible goals to become climate neutral economies by 2050. in this way, we hope, and we are working, to achieve the most ambitious possible outcome at cop26 in glasgow and at the biodiversity cop15 in kunming. this is the ambition we want to bring to the table when we meet with our partners and friends from all over the world. i know that you, the european parliament, share this ambition, because we all want to end this pandemic and we all want to leave a healthy planet to future generations. the commission is not (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first of all, let me express that it’s a good feeling to be back here in strasbourg. for me, it is a symbol of coming back to normal. i think that’s the atmosphere all over europe that people feel: we have a chance to come back to the old normal in a new world. i only want to add one point in the debate about covid and management of the crisis. in the daily lives of our citizens, i think this week’s decision on the certificate is important because people have the chance to win freedom of movement back, especially in front of the summer season. and i want to see strong competition now among our member states over who will be first in implementing what is currently on the table and will be approved this week. this european council meeting was a positive one. i would even say i was proud about the outcome because it was a firm, tough, united response. yes, this was a modern form of state terrorism, an eu internal flight from athens to vilnius, a new level of escalation from belarus, an attack against us as europeans. i think the big game-changer was that people felt and saw ‘i am affected, i am concerned’. europeans were in the hands of a belarussian dictator. that was the reality. that’s why, again, president michel, this was a moment of geopolitical strength, of a strong signal from the european council, and i want to thank you for this. now it’s about implementation, banning flights, strict travel limitation of the elites. and lukashenko must know that he must be held accountable for what he did. so, an international tribunal is waiting for mr lukashenko. that must be the message. we all know that there is a bigger question behind this: the question about russia, about the system of vladimir putin. the idea to stop the spreading of freedom and democracy further to the east is in his mind. that is the question he’s dealing with. thirty—five years ago, it was dresden, it was budapest, 12 years ago it was kiev, today it’s minsk, and tomorrow probably moscow. that’s the question which is on the table. and for us as europeans, one thing must be clear: freedom fighters, especially those in european territory, must feel that we are on their side. we have a role to play in defending and promoting the european way of life, and that is the key message for us. but are we really capable of doing so? is the european way of life, its voice, really understood at global level? in the belarus case, it worked because it was so obvious. but already on russia, president michel, you told us that there is still a discussion going on. are we capable of keeping europe together? and on china, when it is about hong kong, about the uyghurs, do we have a voice as europeans? i don’t see it. i don’t see it. and that’s why i was surprised, let me be very frank, that i heard and read in recent days that you, president michel, said publicly you have no opinion on whether we should switch to the qualified majority decision-making process on foreign affairs. i tell you, i have a clear opinion. i think it’s better to vote with a qualified majority making decisions than to be silent and have no european voice. and that’s why i think we have to use the future of europe discussion to take the necessary steps now in making europe much stronger than it is today. i also want to pick up on the climate debate as a second issue. we have a strong message with our 55% target for 2030. i want to underline in preparation now for the fit for 55 package only two guiding principles which are important for my group. the first is that when we know now, when we are aware that travelling and housing will be two issues where we have to focus in the reduction of co2 and when we increase costs with a modern emissions trading system (ets), then it arrives in the pocket of our citizens, it will be very close to our citizens. and i want to underline, having the french experience with the yellow vest movement in mind, we must keep the social dimension in our mind. we must be aware that this is a big challenge to balance things with the social dimension for the poor part of our society. and the second reflection i want to make is, yes, a border adjustment tax is probably a solution to avoid unfair competition inside of the single market. but what about the rest of the world? our industry exports a lot of products to the rest of the world. we are a trading continent and we profit a lot from this. that’s why i think we have to consider that to increase the costs for our european productions will also harm the competitiveness of our industry. and the epp group will never support a strategy which will end up leading us to the deindustrialisation of the european union. we must create jobs with the climate targets and not destroy jobs. two points in the preparatory process for the climate package. but overall, and i have the g7 and eu—us summit in mind, let’s show the world that we are leading. let’s show the world that we are ambitious.
i am glad that the commission has taken this opportunity to make a statement on the situation in the european union. and that's a good sign, because it's one more step toward the normality we so long for. it's been a very difficult year and a half. we do not forget the dead or the uncertainty faced by so many people. if at first the european response was slow and disorganized, i think today we can say that many mistakes were made and that this summer we will start a new phase with optimism thanks, in large part, to the european vaccination campaign, which is working with a very clear objective. i remember last year, when we were at the height of the health emergency, there were people in this house who felt that it was time to set up committees of inquiry, and that was obviously a respectable position, but our group did not support that idea at the time. it wasn't our position. in the midst of the storm, it was time to roll up our sleeves and row everyone in the same direction. the socialists and democrats have wanted to be constructive, loyal and responsible to the commission and the council, but above all to the citizens, because only institutional cooperation would get us ahead. but now the situation is different. the emergency is behind us, the horizon is clearing. and now, yes, now is the time to be able to look back and learn. learn and improve. not to blame anyone, not to point fingers, but to assess what the european union as a whole has done, what instruments we need to strengthen to be better prepared for a new crisis and what other capabilities we need to develop. i think it is time that a special committee was set up in this parliament to see what lessons we can learn from the pandemic. this committee must address all the dimensions of the crisis, from health to research, from the economic and social impact to the free movement of citizens. and now that the worst is over, it's also time to continue legal action against those pharmaceutical companies that have not complied and are not complying with the contracts. the collective effort is not over and we have to keep working. in the economic field, to implement the recovery plan. on a global scale, to ensure that vaccines reach every corner of the world. in health, in social, in strengthening our welfare state. on the one hand, the institutions have to carry out this exercise of analysis of our policies and actions, and on the other hand we have a great opportunity to discuss possible reforms. the citizens will trust us if they see that we are able to learn, not to waste time confronting each other who think differently, but to approach the solutions jointly, to give a response to the citizens. if we do, the men and women of europe will be able to trust the european project again.
i take this opportunity, as they are cleaning the pulpit, to inform you that last night 356 members of parliament were present in strasbourg in the register of signatures of members. this is very important. many of them, of course, work remotely from their offices, as is also right to maintain the sense of caution we have recommended.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr president of the european council, madam president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, we are slowly returning to normalcy, and the proof is that we are back here today, in strasbourg. but the challenges we face together are multiplying every day, and only if we act together can the european union find a way to protect its citizens, strengthen its global influence and defend democracy. during the last european council, that is exactly what happened: firm and determined action, and i thank you, mr president, for that, because the swift imposition of sanctions following what we can call an act of state terrorism by lukashenko, sent a strong signal that we are prepared to defend our values and to act swiftly and decisively. but we don't have to stop here because raman pratasevic is still being detained, and his dignity and right to free expression continues to be denied. economic and financial sanctions are also needed because we cannot continue to financially support this regime in belarus by any means, as if nothing had happened. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the format and content of the information to be provided by the competent authorities of the member states. this helps millions of europeans not just for tourism, but especially for those who cross borders daily for their work, for their professional activity, and for those who have waited patiently, for more than a year, during this long pandemic, to travel to see their loved ones. we therefore expect member states to implement this certificate as decided by the legislator at european level and to do so in a responsible, common way, not adding other administrative rules that would undermine its effectiveness. citizens should have easy access to the certificate and understand how it works in order to dispel their fears and doubts about this document. when we came together and worked together in times of crisis, the union demonstrated that it can quickly provide citizens with tangible tools to help them. last but not least, climate change remains one of the most urgent and important challenges of our mandate. the european union is determined to make the transition to climate neutrality and make it a success story, as the president of the european commission said, to ensure sustainable economic growth, green industrial research and innovation and job opportunities for our citizens. and we must not forget that this adaptation to climate change also means jobs. people, families and entrepreneurship must be at the heart of this transition, and the aim is to take responsibility for what is left for future generations. the fit for 2030 - ready for 2030 package should set the framework for this transformation and should build on existing climate and energy legislation, while ensuring that people, as well as companies, enterprises are part of the transition and support it. and only in this way can this transition be a success. my dear colleagues, the transformations that the crisis we are going through is forcing us to undergo can create divisions among us. but if we see the exit from the crisis as an opportunity, this can be a leap for the european project, a leap we probably didn't even think about a year or so ago when this crisis erupted.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first of all thank you for your views in an interesting debate that has spanned many important areas. the eu’s most urgent priority remains to fight the pandemic in all its aspects, from health through to the economy. we also need to get everyone safely through it and draw some early lessons. more and more people are receiving vaccines. societies are gradually reopening. overall, the signs are more encouraging. we are taking the first steps back to normality. after more than a year of economic pain in every eu country, there is hope that we are coming through the worst. the eu is expected to reach its pre-crisis economic level by the end of the year and all eu countries should see their economies return to pre-crisis levels by the end of 2022. let us also remember that the impact of the crisis would have been much worse without the unprecedented efforts made by the eu’s institutions and member states to provide strong fiscal, monetary and financial support. as restrictions begin to ease, we can look forward to the eu digital covid certificates being issued soon, not least to facilitate travel. still, we need to keep a close eye on the possibility of escape variants of the virus. they remain a public health risk and threaten to undo much of the good work done to contain the spread of covid-19. at the same time, we need to speed up the pace of vaccinations. that means speeding up both vaccine production and supply to whoever needs it. this applies internationally, too, where europe continues to play a leading role – particularly in helping to develop vaccine production in africa. universal and fair access to vaccines and treatments must be the global community’s top priority. in the mean time, other crises have not gone away with the pandemic. climate change remains an emergency that the whole world has to deal with. at the european council’s special meeting last month, the commission set out clearly how we are building a model for a clean economy that is also prosperous. the green transition, along with the digital transition, has so much growth potential that it is certainly feasible to make our economy both green and prosperous at the same time. the next step in the eu’s journey to climate neutrality will come next month, with a package of proposals that we are calling ‘fit for 55’. it will provide the means to meet our 2030 target for reducing emissions by 55%. thank you for your views today on this crucial next stage in europe’s post-crisis economic transformation. turning to international affairs, the eu has taken a strong position on belarus after the outrageous hijacking of a passenger plane flying between two eu capitals. we continue to support the people of belarus in their desire for a peaceful and democratic transition of power. we will back up this promise with a comprehensive economic support plan once belarus embarks on that transition. since the august 2020 elections in belarus were neither free nor fair, its authoritarian regime is not legitimate. in the mean time, the eu demands that the belarus authorities release raman pratasevich immediately. the world is watching closely. staying with our immediate neighbours to the east, there is russia. the tactics that the kremlin is using against us are all too familiar: destabilisation, overt and covert interference, particularly in the affairs of our neighbouring countries, and in the entire baltic sea region. it is all designed to challenge and weaken the european union and undermine member states by attacking them individually. unfortunately, the situation is getting worse, not better. finally, on our relations with the united kingdom, there are some tensions. much of this is due to teething problems after brexit. unsurprisingly, however, a lot of the initial problem areas are the result of brexit itself. we are working hard to resolve these issues so that the eu-uk relationship remains balanced and productive. as eu leaders have agreed, this must be done based on the negotiated provisions in force for both sides: the trade and cooperation agreement, and the withdrawal agreement, including the protocol on ireland and northern ireland.
president of the european council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this political project of the european union is a political project unprecedented in history. this year marks the 70th anniversary of the first coal and steel treaty, and we can see that this project is constantly evolving, day by day, year by year. i am a firm believer in the strategic autonomy of the european union, which in my view is based on a triple union. first, a union of values. many of us have stressed this today: it is more important than ever, within our european union but also outside it, to promote these values of emancipation, freedom, the principles of non-discrimination, the principles of the rule of law, which are the foundation of robust, solid societies, from which we can guarantee equal opportunities for every citizen in europe and throughout the world. i also believe in this prosperity union: being mobilised to meet the challenges of the climate transition and the digital transition. of course, it puts pressure on us, it puts challenges on us, it requires innovation, creativity and the ability to be consistent, to make sure that when we set ourselves standards to meet this climate challenge, we can also engage internationally. for example, the issue of the world price for carbon must be on the international agenda. be assured that in the coming days, at the g7 or in the bilateral framework with major partners, this subject will be put on the table by the european union. i also believe in this strategic union, this geopolitical union. i am aware that at the moment it can sometimes be observed that this strategic and geopolitical union is not up to our strength in the field of values, our strength in the economic field. it is obviously a constant mobilisation: bringing together the legitimacy of the european parliament, the commission and the member states to build unity in order to have more impact. i am sure that in the context of this debate, the conference on the future of europe, institutional issues will be on the table. there will be the capacity for all european citizens, for parliament too, to be involved in this reflection on the terrain of efficiency, on the impact we can have as the european union, and this debate on unanimity or qualified majority will probably be one of the themes. my view and i assume is as follows. i think that every time we are united, gathered by unanimity, we have strength, we have impact. and i think we should think carefully before we give up and take the risk of throwing the baby with the bath water, because unity is strength, it is weight and it is impact for the european union. perhaps there are other forms that could be sought in order to strike this balance between the capacity for unity and the capacity for member states, on certain points, to express minority or different positions without impeding the ability to move forward together. so these are some of the things that i wanted to share with you. i believe in this triple union: the union of values, the union of prosperity and the union of strategy. this requires consistency. and a final word on covid: we can see that in the last few weeks, we've made a lot of progress. we are well aware that we must remain extremely vigilant, extremely committed and we are well aware that the international question is at the heart of the european mobilization. we will also be working hard on this tomorrow and the day after at the g7 with all our partners. thank you again for sharing your concerns, your commitments and your convictions.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in writing. from the conclusions of this extraordinary meeting, we note that relations with the united kingdom should remain mutually beneficial and cannot undermine the integrity of the single market, the customs union or the eu's decision-making autonomy. the truth is that in the post-brexit stage, this relationship started off wrong. we could all see the disproportionate measures taken by the british authorities at the eu border. often, young eu citizens, and in most cases not yet fully aware of the new entry conditions, are either detained or denied access. the uk also blocked the entry of 3 294 eu citizens from the beginning of the year to the end of march, of whom more than two thirds, 2 118, were romanian. can we say that it's in keeping with the spirit of good cooperation we'd expect? the commission should seek explanations from the uk authorities and work towards the implementation of the agreements, especially as regards the rights of eu citizens. the uk authorities must stop any discriminatory action and explain the reasons why eu citizens are denied access or detained and why there is such a high proportion of romanians.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on preparation of the g7 summit of 11-13 june and the eu us summit (2021/2715(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for this opportunity to discuss in a bit more detail these two important upcoming summits, to which president michel and president von der leyen have already referred. first, on the g7 summit, which the uk will host in cornwall this weekend, as president charles michel has just underlined, the overall mission of the eu for the meeting is clear: to support an agenda for global action built on a strong commitment to international cooperation, multilateralism and an open, resilient, rules-based international order. here there are a couple of elements. first, the covid—19 pandemic needs global cooperation in order to be overcome. we need solidarity. we need to ensure early access to vaccines and treatments everywhere. while vaccination campaigns are making progress around the world, more needs to be done. president von der leyen explained clearly what we are doing in terms of exports, donating vaccines, and supporting the production of vaccines, but more needs to be done. we need a stronger multilateral response. we call for closing the financial gap for access to the covid—19 tools accelerator, and we have been the main supporters of covax, but we cannot be multilateralists alone. all the advanced g7 economies should share doses through covax. secondly, solidarity also remains key in dealing with the economic effects of the pandemic, as we expect uneven recoveries and deepening of inequalities. we need to work together to fight hunger and poverty around the world. in this respect, a new general allocation of special drawing rights, unprecedented in terms of size, is under preparation by the imf. eu member states have supported this initiative and are discussing how best to channel these resources to the most vulnerable countries. thirdly, we also need to better prepare the world for the next pandemic. a number of initiatives are ongoing with the recent rome declaration of principles released by the global health summit and discussed at who, including on an international treaty on pandemics. this should not be a missed opportunity. furthermore, the uk g7 presidency has put forward a very ambitious agenda on climate and biodiversity against the background of the two important events of this year, the cop26 on climate and the cop15 on biodiversity. success at the cop26 will depend on the level of ambition of all parties. the eu has already submitted its ambitious nationally determined contribution (ndc). it will be important that the g7 shows an equally strong level of ambition and leadership, with clear commitments. the eu is also committed to working with the g7 partners to adopt new, ambitious global targets on biodiversity for the cop15. our own eu 2030 biodiversity strategy is a testimony to that. finally, another very important topic regards international taxation. we are at a crucial juncture on the oecd—led negotiation for a broader overhaul of the rules on international taxation of the largest multinational enterprises. we welcome the fact that the g7 has reached a consensus on the framework for an overall agreement, and we hope that this agreement at g7 level will indeed form a good basis for further work, both within the g20 and at the level of the oecd. turning now to the upcoming summit with the united states, i would like to stress the symbolic importance of this event. it will take place as a part of president biden’s first foreign trip, seven years after the previous summit, upon an invitation by president charles michel. the united states and the eu represent 780 million people who share democratic values. it is also the largest economic relationship in the world. we have a chance and a responsibility to help people make a living, keep them safe, fight climate change and stand up for democracy and human rights. we would like to see this summit agree with the us on an ambitious cooperation agenda in four key areas: fighting the covid pandemic and driving forward a sustainable global recovery; second, protecting our planet and fostering green growth; third, strengthening trade, investment and technological cooperation; and fourth, building a more democratic, peaceful and secure world. we expect that leaders will agree on a very concrete and ambitious set of deliverables in all these four areas and we believe that this event has the potential to be a key milestone in renewing and re—energising our partnership. a strong transatlantic partnership is vital to ensure, and to contribute to, our common security, stability and prosperity. a renewed transatlantic agenda is necessary to find joint answers to global challenges and make it deliver for our citizens. we hope that the summit will not be a one—off event and that regular exchanges between the eu and the united states will resume at different levels. discussions in preparation for the summit are under way, both with eu member states and on the us side, and i am sure that today’s exchange will provide a timely and important input into the summit preparations. i’m very keen to listen to your views. thank you very much for your attention.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the transatlantic relationship is a beacon of democracy and prosperity. we share deep historical ties, as well as the biggest trade and investment relationship in the world. our trade flows reached a value of almost eur one trillion. but our partnership goes beyond economics. we have shared values, and we are committed to supporting democracy across the world. we share a fundamental belief in strong global rules and institutions that give every country a fair chance to flourish. when the eu and us speak with one voice, we can get things done. today, after some years of turbulence, the atmosphere has changed for the better. we are looking for new avenues for joint leadership: ending the covid-19 pandemic and driving the economic recovery; building a more democratic, peaceful and secure world; world trade organization reform; climate and green growth; trade and technology; levelling the global level playing field. back last december, the eu reached out to the incoming biden administration with a proposal for a renewed transatlantic agenda. the commission welcomes the european parliament’s support for this approach. we are engaging intensively with our american counterparts to translate our intentions into action. i have had very constructive conversations with us trade representative ambassador tai and secretary of commerce raimondo in this regard. we now have two important opportunities to advance our strategy: a g7 summit in the uk next week and the eu-us summit on 15 june. let me start with the g7 summit. the participation of president biden and the new us administration, together with the parallel italian g20 presidency, offers an excellent opportunity to reinvigorate the g7. the eu will be calling for stronger multilateral cooperation, in particular on health, climate, the economic recovery, and bolstering our common values as open societies and democracies. our key priorities for this year’s g7 summit focus on beating the pandemic, recovering from the crisis while building a better future, strengthening the multilateral trading system, working for a successful cop 26, and joining forces for a human-centric digital transformation. let me briefly address each of our priorities. on health, while overcoming the covid pandemic is our immediate priority, we should also enhance our preparedness for possible future pandemics. good progress was made at the g20 global health summit co-hosted by italy and the european commission in may. the eu demonstrated its full commitment to global solidarity. we want to build on this progress and agree on a g7 health declaration. the eu will push for more ambitious commitments to share vaccines with developing countries, and financing the access to covid-19 tools accelerator. we are also fully committed to supporting the development of vaccine manufacturing capacity in developing countries, and we are driving this work forward via forums like the wto. on the economic recovery, we have provided unprecedented support to citizens and businesses to mitigate the impact of the pandemic. given the magnitude of the covid-19 crisis’s economic impact, this support has proven very successful. at the g7 summit, we will insist that economic support should not be abandoned too early, but should still be maintained to allow the recovery to gain proper ground. but we will equally insist that in order to build a better future, we should shift from crisis response to promoting strong, resilient, sustainable, balanced and inclusive growth. trade will play a major role. we all agree that the multilateral trading system needs to be reformed, and i thank the honourable members for their consistent leadership in this respect. the g7 has a responsibility to lead the reform effort, and the eu will be proactively calling for this strong approach. when it comes to the digital arena, our aim at the g7 summit will be to show unity between like-minded partners. we want to send a clear message that we are ready to cooperate and shape a digital future based on our shared democratic values. g7 trade ministers have already expressed strong support for open digital markets and opposition to digital protectionism – in line with the eu’s own approach. we strongly support the creation of new rules for digital trade at the world trade organization. we are committed to advancing the joint statement initiative on e-commerce. leading on environment and climate action is the eu’s first priority. at the g7, we will continue pushing for ambitious cop 26 commitments on climate change and for ambitious cop 15 commitments on biodiversity. at the summit, the g7 will show strong leadership by signing up for an unprecedented joint commitment concerning net-zero emissions by 2050 at the latest. finally, the g7 summit will provide an opportunity to promote our democratic values and open society around the world, notably by endorsing a joint declaration with like-minded democracies: the republic of korea, india, australia and south africa. we want to engage with our international partners on geopolitical challenges, including the latest developments in russia and belarus. we will continue to call for the immediate and unconditional release of belarusian journalist raman pratasevich. now moving on to next tuesday’s eu-us summit. we very much welcome the biden administration’s re-engagement on the global stage and its commitment to reinvigorating the traditional alliance with europe. the summit will be an opportunity to show the world that we are serious about tackling global challenges together. we will commit to upholding democracy and human rights, to ending the pandemic and addressing global health in general. we will also commit to protecting our planet and supporting an economic recovery that benefits everyone. we also hope that the summit can deliver a more positive trade agenda. we will commit to collectively addressing the challenges stemming from non-market economies. and, as a trust and confidence-building measure, we have to de-escalate and solve eu-us trade disputes. we want to make decisive progress in resolving our bilateral disputes on aircraft and the us section 232 measures on steel and aluminium. on the latter, we sent a clear signal to the us of our willingness to solve this issue in a fair and balanced way, by suspending the automatic doubling of our legitimate countermeasures. it is now for the us to walk the talk. beyond immediate priorities, the eu and us should move closer when it comes to defining technologies, green and digital economies and societies of the future. to that end, the eu has proposed establishing a trade and technology council to deliver transatlantic leadership in the area of trade and digital, based on our shared values. of course, this cooperation should also be open to like-minded partners. last but not least, we also hope to forge an alliance with the us to cooperate on world trade organization reform. we need to bring the global trade rulebook up to date, helping us to address the many challenges we face. finally, we will engage with the us on critical geopolitical challenges, including russia and china, but also in supporting the eu’s eastern partners such as ukraine, georgia and moldova, strengthening our joint engagement in the western balkans, and ensuring stability in the middle east and africa. to conclude, the commission is looking forward to these important summits and we will inform you of their outcome.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam minister, mr vice-president of the commission, i am glad to see that life is returning to normal and that multilateralism, in order to flourish, also needs summits and physical meetings. so this g7 meeting in person is a very good opportunity. i would like to focus on three main messages. first, i would like to highlight the need for a commitment to the mandatory publication of climate-related financial data. it would be a strong signal that we can no longer bury our heads in the sand when it comes to climate change. corporate climate transparency is an essential first step. the european union has always been at the forefront of the fight against climate change, and i am speaking to the commission to remind it that we are committed to sustainable job creation and that citizens will soon be holding us accountable for the results of this commitment. it's a topic that should be on the agenda when we talk about climate change. secondly, i want to welcome the historic decision of the g7 finance ministers this weekend on the principle of a minimum tax rate of 15% on multinational profits. the current international tax rules, which date back more than a century, are an unfair system that cannot be defended before our citizens. so it's time to evolve it and take this decision on a global level. and it would also be good if the oecd followed in the footsteps of the g7 following such a decision. thirdly, i would like to call on the g7 heads of state and government to step up their support for covax. we have just spoken today about the european covax initiative. it is currently the main instrument of solidarity in the fight against the covid-19 pandemic worldwide and it is important to support covax not only with statements, not only with the wish to act better internationally, or even populist statements, but also to contribute concretely to support covax. finally, it is refreshing to see that the united states is back on the international scene with a constructive approach. we must remain in solidarity with democracies at the international level. more and more authoritarian leaders are openly challenging the democratic system and we must respond to them with courage and firmness.
madam president, until recently, g7 meetings were boring administrative meetings at which the big western leaders discussed the economic and financial health of their economies. today, the g7 has to change course drastically as we no longer live in a world in which liberal democracy is evident. instead of being a loose club of wealthy nations, the g7 urgently needs to become an active alliance of genuine democracies – a solid alliance ready to fight authoritarian crooks like lukashenko with a worldwide sanctions regime, to cease doing business with countries or in products produced by slave labour or on the back of our planet, and to radically rethink our military alliances and strategies. even for the new biden administration, a european army and a un defence unit are no longer taboo. let us show courage, ambition and vision in this g7. let’s go forward with a new concept for a g7 in defence of our values and our freedoms – a g7 willing to fight for it.
madam president, vice—president dombrovskis has justifiably heaped high praise on the return of the us administration to the tradition of working with allies. mr dombrovskis, you have sung well the gospel of transatlantic allegiance. you have emphasised that we have to translate intentions into action and you have promised joint leadership. but alas, as i listened attentively to what you said, i missed one very important topic for showing leadership. if we want to create, as biden says, a 3b world – a ‘built back better’ world – we have to emphasise the need for an international infrastructure investment initiative, or call it a connectivity strategy, or call it a european global partner europe initiative. whatever the name, this house has shown the way. when we discussed the topic in january, the commission pledged full support for the agenda. but i get the impression that the commission still hasn’t got it. not a single word from you on the topic, even though president biden has emphasised it. we have lost too much time already. we have moved forward only little by little, against internal opposition. now there’s a chance for a breakthrough. if the commission fails europe on this, it is also failing member states and parliament at the same time. now is the time to go big, vice—president. go big or go out of the way!
madam president, it’s highly significant that president biden has chosen europe as the destination for his first overseas trip. it’s a clear sign of the renewed commitment to multilateralism and the transatlantic relationship. the transatlantic link is a bedrock of the international rules-based system that ushered the world into an era of peace and prosperity after world war ii. challenges remain in trade approaches to russia, china and other areas, agriculture and data protection – especially after recent revelations. we have to seek to redefine our relationship on an equal footing and take greater responsibility. nevertheless, we are encouraged by the political will from washington to tackle our differences in a constructive manner. the g7 ministerial agreement on the minimum tax rate on multinational companies comes as the best introduction for the events next week and a great step forward towards tax justice. smes have carried an unfair burden for too long. it’s high time for the multinational companies that often profited from the pandemic to contribute fairly to the global recovery.
madam president, secretary blinken recently said the more that countries with complementary strengths unite to achieve shared goals, the better for us all. if the power that lies in us is the sum of multiple forces, we need to learn to aim in the same direction. to deliver freedom worldwide, let’s fully engage in the global summit for democracy. let’s remember what democracy learning means. let’s remember 6 january. but let’s also think of 8 june here in france. how will that help us to win this fight? to guarantee our fight for euro-atlantic security, let’s strengthen the european flanks by investing in defence research and military mobility. to respond to future health threats, let’s not compete when the next epidemic strikes us, but let’s join forces with the us. i welcome president biden’s visit to europe. i think he is welcome here. and through unity of purpose, i believe that there is no limit to what we can achieve together.
i have to say, madam president, what we're seeing in america right now is truly breathtaking. it is a complete change of policy, and this is an opportunity for us in europe. in america, investing in green and digital transformation, social cohesion -- funded by a new push for tax justice. we in europe must respond to this, and see it as an opportunity. that is why it is so crucial that the large member states and the european commission support this policy in america. so i am embarrassed that it is joe biden who is pushing for a global minimum tax rate of 21%, and there are cautious signals coming from europe. america has earned a full transatlantic partnership here. and in implementing this global tax deal, europe must not fall back to 15%, but must support america with 21%. america said 21% tax rate. we should not undercut america, but we should reach out here.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we can no longer ignore this: in the post-corona world, the poor will have become poorer and the rich will have become significantly richer. the differences are growing considerably. in the post-covid-19 world, particularly in the global south, there is a shortage of female doctors, doctors, nurses, teachers. millions of young people will have been left without schooling. if this world is not to fall apart in the long run, we must act urgently. that is why we call on the heads of government of the major industrial nations, the eu and the usa, before their joint summit: the momentum is now! show some courage! show some courage! now is the moment in history where we must make a breakthrough. global minimum taxes: the big digital companies must finally do their part for the common good. only by overcoming the glaring inequalities on this globe will we succeed in building a fairer, more sustainable world tomorrow in the best interests of all of us.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, allow me to offer some final thoughts ahead of the important upcoming summits. the pandemic has put our resilience to the test, not just in europe but around the world. this has been an unprecedented global health crisis, which has caused economic recession and increased geopolitical rivalry. as we plan our recoveries, it is more important than ever that like-minded democracies work together, in a spirit of solidarity and strategic thinking. there is no stronger partnership than the transatlantic bond. this is the single largest trade and investment relationship in the world. our daily exchange of goods and services amounts to eur 2.7 billion and even in 2020, the year of the pandemic, transatlantic trade flows reached a total value of almost eur 1 trillion. but our partnership goes beyond this: we also share key democratic and economic values. the european parliament plays a critical role in maintaining the political relationships that underpin this bond. the biden administration has contributed to a marked improvement in the tone and working methods of transatlantic relations. now, at the g7 summit and eu-us summit, we need to see this improved spirit translated into meaningful policy proposals. it is often said that the g7 shows its real usefulness in times of crisis. so we can therefore safely say that this year’s summit, which starts tomorrow, is very welcome. likewise, the eu-us summit on 15 june will give a clear picture of where we stand. on sustainable and inclusive recovery programmes, on climate action, on the digital transformation, on multilateral reform: in these areas and others, we must show that we are ready to once again lead from the front. we are glad to have g7 and us support for the eu’s fight for democracy – ranging from aleksei navalny and his supporters in russia; to the free media around the world – and i would like once again to highlight raman pratasevich in belarus – to the territorial integrity of ukraine. i thank you, honourable members, for your strong engagement, and the commission looks forward to discussing the outcomes of these summits with you.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all your comments. we live in unprecedented times and much has been done in terms of global cooperation. but we are not yet safe, we must continue our efforts to collectively overcome the pandemic as a global community, something that will benefit everyone. we need concrete results from this g7 summit on efforts to support covax and on effective international cooperation to ensure global economic and social recovery. we also need to pursue our ambitious agenda for the long-term challenges we face, namely upholding our common values and fighting climate change, making our societies more sustainable, innovative, cohesive and prosperous. we need to preserve the spirit of cooperation in the g7, to come up with innovative solutions and to continue to provide multilateral responses to all these challenges, thus sending an important signal to the rest of the world. we need to work bilaterally as well as with partners who share our ideas and values. we believe that president biden and his administration are ready and willing to cooperate with us, as the commissioner said, in the areas of climate and digital technologies, but also in the area of taxation, in the area of trade and in a strategic vision based on our common values. the forthcoming summit with the united states will be a unique opportunity to reinvigorate our strategic partnership. we believe that together we will be more effective in meeting the challenges and in giving confidence and hope to citizens on both sides of the atlantic in democracy, peace and prosperity.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in writing. the eu-us summit, which is attended by president biden, marks the beginning of a renewed transatlantic partnership and will set a joint agenda for eu-us cooperation in the post-pandemic era. without dampening other mutual foreign policy concerns, the main messages of this summit on setting a common agenda will have to be to ensure global health security, stimulate global economic recovery, build resilience to climate change, enhance digital and trade cooperation, and, very importantly, persist in strengthening democracy and the fight for human rights.
in writing. in the run-up to the us president joe biden's trip to europe to attend the g7 summits, nato summits and the us-eu summits, the dse expressed its high expectations in this debate to advance the progressive agenda in favour of democracy, the rule of law and social justice. we need to build stronger ties and a more resilient alliance of democracies to revitalize the multilateral world order. we also need to join forces against the climate emergency and achieve robust sustainable growth and more inclusive societies. in addition, we have heard in recent days of the agreement on international taxation at the g7 summit, which will be followed up in the g20 and oecd negotiations and lead to further legislative proposals by the european commission. the establishment of a minimum corporate tax rate, together with the introduction of a control mechanism for taxation in the countries where profits are made, envisages a very different scenario from the current one 'marked by tax competition between states', which the esd fully supports.
in writing. it is historic that the g7 finance ministers agreed to promote a global reform of corporate taxation and agreed to support a principle that would set a target corporate tax rate of 15% for each country. the economic crisis caused by covid-19 is placing a huge burden on the economy of the european union. this economic burden, in turn, creates an opportunity to create a more solidarity-based europe. small and medium-sized enterprises have already borne the unfairly distributed burden of taxation for too long. it is time for the multinational corporations that have often profited from the pandemic to make their fair share of the global recovery. europe must therefore take a leading role in building a fair and equitable global tax system.
in writing. the series of high-level meetings in the coming days the g7, nato, eu-us and us-russia summits represent an opportunity to reset the transatlantic relationship and build a stable and predictable framework in our part of the world. the challenges we face, especially coming from dictatorial-revisionist regimes, are forcing western democracies to join the ranks. it is time for nato and the eu to coordinate their policies better, it is time for the eu and the us to enter a new phase of close cooperation on all fronts, it is time for our common values and interests to prevail over individual appetite for business at any cost or deviations from the logic of transatlantic unity. we need a strong and united position in the face of russian aggression and a strengthening of the eu's and nato's eastern flank. we also need an eu-us investment and trade partnership that is able to cope with the economic shifts of the 21st century and their geostrategic implications. any push towards competition between the eu and the us, as well as any concessions to our systemic rivals, are nothing but self-destructive steps, in the context of the great global trends of today. that's why i'm advocating unity of vision and action for the free world.
in writing. – in the face of concerning accounts of rule of law backsliding as our union’s common founding principle, an agreement was reached already half a year ago to put in place a rule of law conditionality mechanism, applicable for the eu budget 2021-2027, and the next generation instruments. establishing a link between upholding the rule of law and eu funding has been, and continues to be a priority for renew europe, as we believe that the breaches in our shared values and fundamental rights must be prevented and addressed effectively, as they impact our core unity. i would therefore like to echo my colleagues in reminding that the conditionality regulation entered into force in the beginning of this year and its application is not subject to the adoption of guidelines or further actions. six months later, it is high time for us to be honest in looking into the existing issues, taking brave actions and making a robust use of the existing instruments in order to make sure that our rights and values are reflected in every action of the european union.
in writing. – for years we have been hiding behind good excuses in order to justify the insufficient action of the eu decision-makers regarding blatant violations of the rule of law in some member states. either we did not have the right tools (i.e. a functioning rule of law mechanism), the article 7 procedure was notoriously difficult to use because of the veto in the council, or it was not the right time to trigger infringement procedures. the european parliament has been advocating for a long time that the most effective way to deal with oligarchs throughout europe who disregard the union’s values is to link funding to respect for the rule of law. now we do have this powerful instrument, which is regulation 2020/2092, and yet we are reluctant to use it. through our resolution, we simply say to the european commission: no more good excuses! the fact that the guidelines for the application of regulation 2020/2092 are not yet ready does not absolve the commission from its obligation to act. our resolution is a clear signal that the parliament will not hesitate to take the commission to court if the text is not applied within two weeks.
mr president, on 7 may in porto we have shown together that we are ambitious. the social summit gave us the opportunity to look towards social targets, and most importantly we have agreed that the number of people at risk of poverty, of social inclusion, should be reduced by at least 15 million, of which five million are children. it is now the moment to build on these ambitions and time to act. our coordinated actions have to follow our collectively agreed ambitions. first, we have to ensure that the investment in the young generation is real, that member states allocate 5% or even more of the european social fund+ resources to fight child poverty. second, we must ensure that a significant part of the rrf resources are invested in actions for young people and children. third, we need to have coordinated actions at eu and member state level when it comes to the implementation of the child guarantee. without real investment, our social ambitions remain only an expressed intention and hope for a better future. if we want the next generation to trust us and to believe in europe, we need to deliver more than hopes. we need to show that europe believes in them as well, and that means creating real opportunities for their generation. it is time to act together.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! it's the 21st century, and we women have to fight all the time. we fight for our rights, for our dignity, for our respect, for our knowledge and our skills to be valued. it's not supposed to be like this. ladies and gentlemen, when we look at national parliaments, we see how many places there are not enough women. when we look at the governments of the european union, we see how in many places there is a sad under-representation of women in the governments that they make up. and yet all the research shows that where women have influence in decision-making, there are much better solutions and much better economic development. ladies and gentlemen, these women who have decided to be active, whether it's in politics, business or any other field, always encounter many barriers, but also hate and hatred on the internet. and as the study shows, again, it's getting worse. and i have experienced this hateful phenomenon myself many times, not only online but also in person. it seems that the world of politics is already difficult enough, and it's this kind of behavior on the internet that causes many women to give up their ambitions and their desires, their careers. we cannot allow, and it's a shame, that in the 21st century we don't have the tools to counter and combat this phenomenon.
mr president, often when we speak about women’s rights, we end up speaking about the need to stop abuse and violence. we speak about the lack of education, lack of professional perspectives, harassment, prejudice, threats. if we discuss women in politics, i have been threatened myself and so has my family. but my speech today is not about this. listen to this: paula gherghinescu, phd in astrophysics, university of surrey; sorina lupu, researcher in robotics and space technologies; elizabeth petrescu, astronomer, european space agency; daniela rus, robotics, mit; anca drăgan, robotics, berkeley; corina tărniță, biology, princeton; oana gurău, neuroscience, oxford. these are some romanian names showing that yes, we can win the world, but they did this alone in a complicated society. let’s bring these role models into our communities, and let our women know that the world is open for them. this is what beats prejudice, fear and hesitancy. let’s put laws, education, time, energy, protection and money on this road of theirs, and then we can talk about women’s empowerment and women’s rights.
madam president, the citizens' initiative 'end of cage age' is a first in the history of the european union, with its 1.5 million signatories concerned not only about what they eat, but also about how food gets to them. this initiative is also a natural step in the context of the green deal, where animal welfare is high on the agenda of the european parliament and the committee on agriculture. by eliminating cages where possible and based on scientific evidence alone, european livestock farming, which already meets the highest standards in the world, takes another step towards an era governed by responsibility and respect for animal welfare. we must only ensure that this era is not settled by the farmer, who has recently made investments and who still needs support, so as not to affect the competitiveness of the sector and even less to put pressure on the pockets of the european consumer. and our role is to properly equip european farmers, our allies, to deliver, as they have accustomed us to, to the highest standards. this is the only way to take european agriculture to the next level without compromising the european union's food security and the fundamental right of citizens to fresh, healthy food that respects animal welfare, but also fair and affordable prices. the 'end of cage age' must not become a deliberate or accidental attack on european animal husbandry and the old continent's culinary traditions. i hope that this time, in addition to its communication, the european commission will also put on the table an impact study to help farmers to calibrate their business.
in writing. today we are sending an important signal to the public that we, as the european parliament, take the follow-up of a citizens' initiative seriously. we cannot simply ignore a request from over 1.4 million citizens. it is a good thing that animal welfare is being brought up on our agenda. but as members of the european parliament we must also dare to take our responsibility and ensure that legislation is ambitious but balanced and feasible. that is why i support the call for an impact study to be carried out on the possible phasing out of cages for farm animals. the date of 2027 is indicative, we cannot be fixed on that. it is crucial to carry out a thorough impact analysis, animal by animal, in order to provide for a feasible transition period. give farmers time to adjust. we must also give farmers financial compensation for the additional investments they will undoubtedly have to make. finally, it is clear that we must at the same time tighten up the controls on imported products so as not to undermine the competitive position of our farmers. it cannot be that we are tying our farmers to the highest animal welfare standards, but that we are leaving the doors open to imports of meat from animals raised in harsh conditions.
author. – madam president, for almost 15 years now euranet plus, as a pan-european independent network of local and regional radio stations with a public service mission, has successfully bridged the information gap between the eu and its citizens by strengthening understanding of, and promoting debate on, all fields of eu policy-making. combining production and broadcasting capacities with editorial services for its member radios and its own agency, which plans co-productions, promotes exchanges and produces truly pan-european tailor-made and on-demand formats for its members, euranet plus represents a unique gateway to eu affairs for more than 15 million listeners on a daily basis who may otherwise not engage with eu-related issues. i’m deeply dismayed that, in complete disregard for the clear political will of the committee on culture and education (cult), the commission adopted a decision on the financing of multimedia actions and the work programme for 2021, which discontinues the current agreement with euranet plus already this year without any transitional measures and replaces it by an annual competitive procedure with a very limited duration. to be very clear: this decision means that the radio network will have to close down by the end of the year. furthermore, this decision was taken without any prior strategic dialogue with the organisation concerned. surely, this trusted partner deserves a fairer, more gracious treatment after more than a decade of eu funding, successful cooperation and skilfully forged specialised action. after a thorough consideration of the matter by the cult committee, it is now very clear that a funding model based on annual open calls with a limited duration without any transition period for the current grant beneficiary makes it impossible for euranet plus to draw up a long-term development plan and for making the digital shift and investing in further improvements of its products and services, leaving them without any stability or predictability, while forcing them to invest a lot of already scarce resources in the preparation of these annual calls. if the commission continues to insist on this course of action, this will lead to the prompt liquidation of euranet plus and the redundancy of its staff in early 2022. i am particularly astonished that, even though we communicated our position to the commission several times in several hearings with the dg and the commissioner on the further allocation of money under the multimedia actions, our position – which is widely shared within the committee and is important in terms of media policy – has been ignored by the commission by referring to a single audit, and this audit itself shows considerable deficiencies in its basic assumptions and thus also in its implementation and results. in no case can we accept that parliamentary majority decisions are now superseded by a single audit. the only acceptable way forward is for the euranet plus to be offered a transitional ground agreement for at least two years, followed by a competition process on a multiannual basis. this will ensure the most added value in terms of sustainability, efficiency and sound use of eu public funds as opposed to short-term procedures that not only force beneficiaries to a hand-to-mouth existence but are also administratively more costly. during this transitional period, euranet plus should be encouraged to submit a long-term strategic plan that aims to develop the network further by the end of 2027 in terms of extending its membership, geographic and linguistic coverage, and preparing for a digital shift. this two-year transition should equip the organisation to be well positioned for the competitive process that could then start in 2024. on behalf of the committee on culture and education, i ask you to support the resolution, asking the commission to urgently revise its decision of 18 march 2021. we cannot fight against disinformation and demand more media pluralism, on the one hand, and at the same time deprive the only radio network that produces news in a cross-border cooperation from a transnational pan-european perspective of a fairly secured financial basis. i call on your support.
member of the commission. – madam president, to have a strong democracy, citizens must be well informed about the decisions that affect them. the eu must ensure that a multitude of media provides citizens with diverse viewpoints. we all know the importance of media pluralism and media freedom. the commission thanks the parliament for the importance it gives to these issues. to help media cover eu affairs from multiple viewpoints, the eu provides support through the multimedia actions budget. one of the current beneficiaries of this budget is euranet plus, which gathers 13 public broadcasters and private radio stations. in line with the principle of sound financial management, the commission monitors all multimedia actions closely, measuring their performance through independent audits, while fully respecting their editorial independence. the latest performance audit, concluded in 2020, looked into the cost efficiency and effectiveness of each multimedia action and its audiences, and it included a detailed analysis of the balance, independence, impartiality and accuracy of the content each action produced. while euranet plus has extensive expertise, the commission must take into account the conclusions of this independent performance audit, which states that a competitive selection process could yield an equally effective implementer and potentially with lower central administration and oversight costs, and that the role of euranet plus could be carried out by a different organisation, potentially with a more effective approach to aspects such as marketing, expansion and editorial control. to adhere to the principles of transparency and equal treatment enshrined in the financial regulation, the commission must take into account the possibility that other similar networks of radio stations could be established. therefore, the 2021 financing decision on multimedia actions foresees support for a radio network through an open call for proposals, safeguarding the current levels of funding. the commission is ready to implement the decision. by acting swiftly, the results of the call could be known in september, well before the current grant with euranet plus expires. building on its knowledge and experience, euranet plus could be a serious contender should it decide to apply under the call. while the 2017 and 2019 grants with euranet plus were concluded on the basis that euranet plus possessed a high degree of specialisation, there is no longer sufficient evidence to support this view. therefore, it is the commission’s view that legal conditions for a direct grant to euranet plus are no longer met, and as such the commission has no choice but to launch an open call. the financing decision is the result of a careful exploration of all legally compliant options. the commission reassures you that we are committed to supporting radio at current levels of funding in 2022 and 2023. the multimedia actions budget for 2021 could only cater for one year of operations. the 2022 budget will be sufficient to support a radio network for two years if adopted as programmed by the budgetary authority. the commission stands ready to discuss the future of all multimedia actions with parliament so that we can jointly make sure that we reach as many europeans as possible, involving as many interested media as possible, to make sure that citizens are truly well informed about eu affairs.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the fact that we have to discuss euranet plus in the plenary today is due solely to the fact that, despite the continuing criticism from the responsible committee on culture, the commission is using a totally questionable audit as an opportunity to question the future of the support for the unique radio network euranet plus, which has been in existence for many years. the scandalous thing about this approach is that this audit by the commission is obviously more important than the majority will of one of the two budgetary legislators. i think you are moving outside your scope. it is not enough for the commissioner responsible, mr breton, to give only what his services write down for him in the multimedia actions. it is his responsibility to place this in the overall political context and to adapt it where necessary. the committee on culture has been calling on the commission to ensure long-term support for euranet plus since the end of february. the commission ignores the position and either dismisses the arguments of the members of parliament with reference to the said questionable audit or does not even listen. the commission's speech on sunday reiterated the importance of a diverse media landscape. on the other hand, it is depriving us of an important instrument for safeguarding media diversity at european level. instead of building and strengthening existing possibilities in practice, we are busy with many warm words in action plans. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to access the information they need to make their decisions. european media policy is more than market conformity, competition and the thoughtless implementation of what is being technocratically presented to you. finally, please reconsider your decision on multimedia actions and show respect for the decisions taken by a large majority in parliament. rest assured: if you remain stubborn, we will continue to fight to make euranet plus truly secure for the future.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, for the past few years we have witnessed campaigns of disinformation and fake news, which try to instill the idea of the uselessness of the european union, of the negative influence that this political construction has on the life of the average citizen. but if you look at just the last year, the european institutions have made a tremendous effort to meet the challenges of the pandemic, from joint procurement of equipment and medicines, to real involvement in vaccine research and production, to equitable distribution, to setting up the next generation eu economic recovery programme. all this loses considerable value if the information does not reach the citizens, if europeans do not know about them and do not realise their importance. communication is therefore essential and the choice of those who take the information to the european citizens must be a process that respects clear rules, based primarily on efficiency and verticality. the selection of media networks to disseminate the european message must be based on transparency, predictability, communication efficiency and cost-effectiveness. communication with citizens is one of the most important tasks facing the european commission and the european institutions, especially as fake news has become a particularly effective basic weapon of illiberal regimes. i support this network of euronet plus.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner dalli, colleagues, nowadays any disability is an additional obstacle to access to education and employment opportunities. autism affects communication and relationships with others, but nonetheless, people with autism have an extraordinary set of skills. i've had the opportunity to meet people who are on the autism spectrum, and i've been impressed by the way they interact, the emotion they can understand, the ability to compute and to be able to ask questions. all of this makes us realize that the precarious situation we are in now with regard to employment opportunities for people with disabilities in general and people with autism spectrum disorders in particular is largely driven by ignorance in society, by the fact that we may not understand what the problems are, we may not understand how we can solve them, and for that we need collective action, both in the public sector, in the private sector and in the non-governmental sector. let's start with the public sector. it's vital that people who are on the autism spectrum disorder not be segregated. it is vital that we provide them with the services they need to make their lives work so that they have access to education and skills. and it's also vital, because that's a very important thing, that the public sector be a good employer. we are not looking and giving directions to the private sector if the public sector is not setting a good example, if the european institutions, and perhaps the european parliament itself, are not hiring or are not open to hiring people who are on the autism spectrum. moving to the private sector, here we really have an important step to take. we need to engage the private sector, engage them in these opportunities. i think it's especially important that we no longer see people on the autism spectrum being pushed into dedicated, segregated jobs, but that we can actually create opportunities for the entire entrepreneurial sector, the entire corporate sector, and it's very important that this is a win-win solution for everyone. the non-governmental sector can do the most things today for these people, and i would like to congratulate all of those who, on the grassroots level, work with these people, the non-governmental organizations, civil society. it's an amazing job, and that's what we should be doing, encouraging and scaling the good practices that you develop. as long as we do not have an inclusive labour market, we cannot talk about an equality union. the private sector must play an active role, but the public and the non-governmental sector must also participate in order to have a truly ready labour market.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, five million people in europe have an autism spectrum disorder, five million europeans who are completely ignored by the authorities in many member states, as is unfortunately the case in my country, romania. we are talking about people who have difficulty accessing a qualification, finding a job or developing a sustainable professional career. their employment rate is below 10% and this is the case irrespective of their support needs. people on the autism spectrum are often discriminated against, and the pandemic has unfortunately had a significant negative impact on their lives. in this context, many people were no longer able to access the support services, medical interventions or psychological help they needed. in a letter that i sent to the european commission, i specifically detailed the challenges faced during the pandemic by children with disabilities, and especially those with autism spectrum disorders, in accessing education, and asked for concrete action from the european union. sometimes, i have to say, their families were unable to help them because of medical and financial constraints. this has led to school dropouts and many job losses. we need solutions and we need them now, using existing local expertise and european resources, including from recovery plans. the differences between and within member states are far too great, and that is why i am calling on the european commission to come up with a european approach that offers solutions and adequate regulation.
member of the commission. – mr president, the strategy for the rights of persons with disabilities sets out a framework for eu action to improve the lives of persons with disabilities in the eu and beyond in the coming decade. it will support the implementation of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities by the eu and the member states in line with respective competences. the objectives of the strategy can only be reached through coordinated action at both national and eu level, with a strong commitment from member states and regional and local authorities to deliver on the actions proposed by the commission. agencies, such as the eu agency for fundamental rights and the european agency for special needs and inclusive education, will be partners in the implementation. the commission counts on the active engagement and expertise of organisations of persons with disabilities, including those focusing on the specific situation and the needs of persons on the autism spectrum. we also count on the fruitful cooperation with you, the house of eu democracy. we have carefully listened to you while setting the priorities for the ten years to come. similarly, we will constructively use all opportunities like today’s information exchange to reflect on ongoing actions and to constantly improve our implementation work. i thank you for your attention and for this debate.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. we must improve, in partnership with the member states and the commission, the prospects for personal and work development for the five million europeans with autism, starting with education and training with individualised approaches to identify needs and improve access to the labour market, with tailored recruitment processes and training for employers. we need to ensure their inclusion and equal pay, and to take advantage of assistive technology and union funds, so there is a need to improve the collection and monitoring of data on the quality of the employment situation of people with autism. it's information that we can apply to improve the quality of life for all the diverse situations and needs of people with autism. finally, we need to look at the effects of the pandemic and the potential problems of discrimination in all areas, from education and employment to housing, to social protection and inclusion, so that no one is left behind.
in writing. inclusive employment for adults with autism is a key issue. the number of people living with autism is rising steadily worldwide, while the employment rate of working autistic youth leaving public education is low, at only 12-14 percent internationally. the goal is not only to help adults with autism find jobs, but also to help them fit in at work. some autism-specific methods or tools, such as online applications, asd quizzes, videos, situational exercises, drama plays, one-on-one meetings, can help with this. the other side of the coin is that the autistic worker, the employer, and the colleagues all need to be mentored in the early stages of successful collaboration. developments in information and communication technologies can help. a good example is the data project, which is a pilot project in hungary, which uses an application to provide support to people with autism in everyday situations, at home, at school, at work and in wider social settings. the application is not a miracle drug, but it can be a useful tool to overcome some of the everyday obstacles, to access services, to increase autonomy and independence. the app can also be of great help to parents, professionals, and caregivers. the app provides a framework to help individuals to carry out various activities as smoothly as possible, making each situation understandable, traceable, predictable and adaptable for the people involved, parents and professionals.
ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of a week of meetings after not having been here in strasbourg for 15 months. for many, it was a feeling of 'finally we are back in strasbourg'. it's not normal yet. some of it was unusual. if a well-oiled machine like this has lasted this long, it needs another chance to start. so for many it was a return, many were looking forward to it, and for many it was still an unusual week. i would like to thank all those who have helped this week, in particular the services, and i wish you a safe journey home and a good weekend. (the sitting was closed at 4.32 p.m.)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 10 june 2021.
ladies and gentlemen, monday 21 june was world amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als) day and i would like to join you today in offering a word of encouragement and solidarity to the patients and their families and to stress the need and duty to invest more in research, to find the cause and to have a treatment and a cure for this very serious disease.
as indicated in our resolution of 10 june 2021, i have written to the president of the commission, ursula von der leyen, on behalf of parliament and on the basis of article 265 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, to call on the commission to fulfil its obligations as guardian of the treaties and to ensure the full and immediate application of the regulation on the conditionality of the rule of law. we believe that there are some flagrant violations of the rule of law by some member states, which must be punished. of course, if the european commission does not react within the time limits set by the treaties, we will take action against it before the court of justice.
the minutes of the sitting of 7, 8, 9 and 10 june and the texts adopted were distributed. are there any comments? if there are no comments, the minutes are approved.
ms luisa regimenti informed me that she left the id group as of 21 june 2021 and now sits among the non-attached meps. mr giuseppe milazzo and mr lars patrick berg informed me that they had left the epp group and the non-attached members respectively and had joined the ecr group as of 23 june 2021.
the agri committee has decided to open interinstitutional negotiations in accordance with rule 71 of the rules of procedure. the report which constitutes the mandate for these negotiations is available on the plenary website and its title will be published in the minutes of the sitting. a number of members or one or more political groups equal to at least the average threshold may request in writing, by midnight tomorrow, thursday 24 june, that a decision on the opening of negotiations be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in the house is received within the said time limit, the committee may enter into negotiations.
i should like to inform the house that, following the adjournment of the session on 10 june and in accordance with rule 79 of parliament's rules of procedure, i have signed, together with the president of the council, two acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. i would also like to inform the house that tomorrow i will be signing with the president of the council seven acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. the titles of these documents will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
let us now move on to the agenda. the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 157 at its meeting on thursday 10 june 2021, was distributed. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to table the following amendments. wednesday the debate on the commission's statement on the future of eu-switzerland relations, originally scheduled for thursday morning, will be moved to the second item on wednesday afternoon, after the joint debate on the preparation of the european council and the relaunch of the malta declaration. the oral question on foreign interference in democratic processes is deferred to the july part-session. the vote on the two reports by mr rangel entitled 'visa information system: processing of visas' and 'visa information system: conditions of access to other eu information systems for the purpose of the vis' is postponed to the next part-session. in addition, discussions on the oral questions on the 25th anniversary of the international conference on population and development relating to the nairobi summit and the brief presentation of the report by mr kolakušić on 'regulatory adequacy, subsidiarity and proportionality: better regulation' were moved to the third and fourth items on wednesday evening, following the discussion on the report by mr carvalho on the high performance computing joint undertaking. the debate on the report by mrs matić entitled 'sexual and reproductive health and rights in the eu in the context of women's health' will be moved to the first item of the evening and the debate on the report by mrs rangel entitled 'relations 2019-2020 on bosnia and herzegovina' will be moved to the last item of the afternoon. i should like to inform the house that i have received a question from the ecr group pursuant to rule 197 of the rules of procedure asking for the inadmissibility of mr matić's report. that request will be put to the vote at today's voting session. the commission will also be presenting a report on the implementation of the new eu-us partnership agreement. the sitting will therefore continue until 2 p.m. and the morning's discussions will be divided into two parts: the first part will begin at 8.30 a.m. and end at 11.30 a.m. and will include a discussion of the report by mr guteland on the european climate law. the second part will begin at 12 noon and end at 2 pm and will include the report by mr van overtveldt and mr hahn on the public sector lending facility and statements by the council of the commission on the urgent need to complete the procedures for the full functioning of the eppo. the vote on the provisional agreement on the report by mr van overtveldt and mr hahn will therefore be postponed to the second vote. finally, i should like to inform you that the votes have been distributed in several rounds, taking account of the number of amendments tabled and the number of requests for votes in separate and distinct parts. this distribution, of course, as you know, is subject to change. information on the distribution of votes in different rounds is available on parliament's website under the heading 'priority information and documents'. the agenda is therefore approved and the order of business is thus set.
mr president, i would like to present a point of order on the basis of rule 39. colleagues, you have probably been following the debate that has arisen over the past days on the meaning of rainbow colours, also in the context of the euro cup, with uefa taking the rather unfortunate – i would say – stance of putting down the request by the city of munich to illuminate the stadium in munich in rainbow colours tonight in the match between germany and hungary. since then, many institutions, including town halls and a lot stadiums all across europe, have declared their solidarity. they are going to be illuminated in rainbow colours tonight, or they are going to show rainbow flags. we would like to request the european parliament do the same and join these efforts. so, mr president, if possible, we would like to ask the european parliament also, for tonight, to hoist a rainbow flag, because i think this parliament agrees that the rainbow flag is not a political provocation. the rainbow flag is a sign of respect for fundamental rights, diversity and human dignity, and we should show this in this parliament as well.
i would like to thank you, mr reintke. as you know, parliament is always very committed to promoting lgbtqi rights and actively participates in awareness campaigns, such as the annual idahot day. i thank you for raising this point and i take note of your request.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the council and commission statements on the preparation of the european council meeting of 24 and 25 june 2021 (2021/2719 ((rsp)) and the council and commission statements on the revival of the malta declaration and the use of an effective solidarity mechanism (2021/275 ((rsp)). i would remind members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words or acceptance of blue cards in any of the debates of this session. as in the past, there will also be contacts from the parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, commissioner šefčovič, honourable members, this week, as from tomorrow, leaders will meet in brussels for the june european council and the subsequent euro summit. their meeting begins with a working lunch on thursday with the just re—elected un secretary—general antónio guterres, and a range of global and regional issues will be on the table, including covid—19 coordination and economic recovery. recovery from the covid—19 pandemic, both in the eu and worldwide, continues to be at the top of the agenda. our recent agreement on the eu digital covid certificate marks certainly an important step towards a safe return to free movement. leaders will now discuss what remains to be done in terms of coordination to enable, within and into the eu, travel. leaders will also address the external dimension of covid—19 recovery and also the emergence of new variants. international solidarity remains key. the eu will continue to play its leading role as a vaccine producer, exporter and contributor to covax. but recovery from the covid—19 pandemic also means economic recovery. leaders will take stock of the implementation of the next generation eu, including national recovery and resilience plans. the timely submission and efficient implementation of these plans is crucial for member states to fully benefit from the potential of the recovery and resilience facility to boost the economy, social cohesion, digital and climate transition. and migration, after a long period of absence, returns to the agenda, in particular its external dimension, as leaders will discuss cooperation with countries of origin and transit. recent developments on certain routes have been a cause for concern, and it will be important to make concrete progress in our cooperation with different partners. at the same time, the council rejects any attempt by third countries to instrumentalise migrants for political purposes. to prevent loss of life and reduce the pressure on eu borders, we need to tackle the root causes of migration while continuing to work towards safe, orderly and regular migration and providing international protection for those who need it. in addition, it is essential to strengthen efforts to shut down smuggling and trafficking networks, improve border management and ensure voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable returns and readmission. beyond european council preparations, i note that you also included in this debate the question of the malta declaration and solidarity. the declaration was a way of addressing disembarkations of migrants rescued at sea in the absence of a permanent mechanism for handling these situations. it facilitated transfers from italy and malta to germany and france, but has remained an intergovernmental tool limited to those four member states. however, other member states, including my own, portugal, have agreed to relocate on a voluntary basis applicants for international protection following disembarkations in italy and malta, and the voluntary relocation scheme from greece has to date been joined by more than a dozen member states and associated countries. in any case, we’re going to continue our efforts in trying to find a permanent solution based on solidarity and on shared responsibilities and that will enable us to replace this ad hoc handling of these situations. further work is requested. so during their meeting, the leaders will further discuss eu external relations. as announced in march, leaders will discuss eu relations with turkey, including the financial support for refugees. leaders will reiterate their readiness to engage with turkey in a phased, proportionate but reversible manner, while underlining that turkey has obligations to respect democracy, the rule of law, human rights and women’s rights. during the working dinner, the leaders will also return to relations with russia on the basis of the commission and high representative’s report. the european council will take stock of the progress made in implementing its decision from may with regard to belarus. leaders will also touch upon other recent international developments in africa. in the end of their meeting on friday and in the margins of the european council, leaders will be joined by the president of the ecb and the eurogroup for a euro summit in inclusive format. thank you very much for your attention.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, secretary of state, honourable members of the european parliament, the last european council before the summer break comes at a positive moment in time. the first national recovery and resilience plans under next generation eu have been approved, enabling record levels of funding for long-lasting transformations and jobs. the eu digital covid certificate is well on track to be up and running across our member states from 1 july and we have seen that in fact some have already put them into use. so giving hope to europeans for a summer with less restrictions. our societies and economies are gradually reopening thanks to great progress in our vaccination effort, but now is not the time to take our collective foot off the pedal. with regard to the vaccination effort, 53% of the adult eu population have received at least one vaccine dose, and we are set to reach the eu’s target of having 70% of adults fully vaccinated by july – that is, of course, if we keep up the pace. it is not enough that europe vaccinates itself, however. out of solidarity, and to speed up our economic recovery, we need to strengthen our efforts elsewhere. this includes generous financial and in—kind contributions to covax, investment in eu vaccine production and export, and support to develop local and regional manufacturing capacities with the eur 1 billion initiative in africa. at the same time, we are also preparing for the future based on what this crisis has taught us. to this end, on 15 june, the european commission presented a communication on the initial lessons learned from the covid—19 pandemic, focusing on the health crisis, but also on the eu’s economic response. we looked at what went well and what did not go so well in the last 15 months. after a difficult start, things improved rapidly. we designed and delivered a range of unprecedented initiatives in record time, for example in vaccines, the procurement of essential supplies, the support for global efforts, and maintaining the functioning of the single market. to this list we should also add the eu digital covid certificate which will enable citizens to travel throughout the union using a secure, mutually recognised document. i would like to thank the european parliament for ensuring that its approval process was concluded so rapidly. the european council will also review the state of play of the implementation of next generation eu. twenty—four member states have now submitted their recovery and resilience plans, with excellent cooperation between the commission services and national authorities. the plans received by the commission so far provide coherent packages of ambitious green and digital investment, as well as reforms addressing the key challenges. this will help strengthen the resilience and growth potential of member states’ economies, while paying all due attention to the social dimension. we are also pleased to see that most of the plans include measures to boost resilience of national health systems. president von der leyen has started her tour across our member states, as these plans receive the commission’s green light. thanks to the ratification of the own resources decision in record time, the commission has been able to start raising resources for next generation eu and we plan to pay out the pre-financing in quick time, once the council approves the plans. this is truly historic and a major milestone towards turning the page and emerging stronger. our debate here today is also dedicated to the malta declaration, which is focused on stemming the migratory flows from libya at the source. a comprehensive whole—of—route approach to migration is embedded within our broader engagement with libya. this includes cooperation with libya’s neighbours in the south and addressing the situation on the mediterranean coast. our concrete actions will continue to focus on border management, a joint fight against migrant smuggling and developing safe and legal pathways through assisted voluntary returns and resettlement. the protection of migrants and saving lives remains paramount. we will continue these actions together with member states, our african union partners and un organisations such as unhcr and iom. the commission has sought to deepen partnerships on migration with all key third countries, and we have provided support on all elements of migration. while we are a long way from the migratory situation in 2015 and 2016, there is still need for further action. we urgently need a durable new european framework that will pave the way to common solutions. this can be ensured by agreement on the new pact on migration and asylum, which we proposed nine months ago. the pact brings together essential internal reform and comprehensive and balanced engagement with our partners to address all strands of migration policy. by making use of strategic foresight, this will help us be better prepared for any future eventuality with regard to migratory pressure. with regard to turkey, there is some positive momentum. we welcome the relative de—escalation of tensions in the eastern mediterranean, including the continuation of direct talks with greece. but we need to see clear and sustainable progress on a number of issues, including cyprus and trade issues. the resumption of returns from greece to turkey is equally important. finally, the commission and the high representative have prepared a report on the state of our relations with russia, as requested by the european council in may. this is a very realistic assessment which makes clear that these relations are on a downward trend due to russia’s own strategic choices and its many malign, aggressive actions. we are now proposing a triptych of concrete action points to push back, constrain and engage with russia simultaneously. this represents a smart reinforcement of our current policies, and is both ambitious and doable. mr president, tomorrow we will have the last european council under the portuguese presidency, and therefore allow me to conclude on an expression of gratitude to ana paula zacarias for not only the excellent presidency, but for her personal engagement and excellent relations she had – i’m sure you all know this – with the european parliament, but also with the commission. this has not only allowed us to launch the conference on the future of europe, but also to progress quickly on the digital covid certificate. i can say the same about many other files, which i’m sure will make europe emerge from this crisis stronger. so ana paula, thank you very much for an excellent presidency, and thank you very much, everyone, for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, before going into the topic of the council, let me also underline that indeed discriminating against people on the basis of their sexual orientation goes against all fundamental values, all our european values. i would like to echo the words of commission president von der leyen, who said that the hungarian bill in that respect is a shame. what is also shameful, however, is the approach of uefa in this regard. previously celebrating the rainbow colours as a symbol of inclusion, it is now trying to ban them as something of a political symbol. this is not about politics, it is about equality, it is about inclusion, and it is about fundamental rights. we need to fight for these fundamental rights every day, and we also expect you in the council to do that in the coming weeks. uefa should also celebrate these fundamental values. (applause) on the eu council, the corona pandemic has of course pushed many important topics – rightly so – into the background in the past 18 months, but at the same time, some of these topics are really important and we need to give them the focus they deserve. one of the issues that i would like to talk about today is security, because the eu continues to face a constantly changing security landscape, which is terrorism, organised crime, the drugs trade, human trafficking, and even worse, we see many of these threats developing very strongly, especially in the time of the corona pandemic. cyber criminality is on the rise. citizens are more susceptible to violent extremist discourses online. we see more child abuse and child pornography online, and we have a duty to protect both the physical and digital environments. member states cannot address these challenges effectively on their own. today’s criminals and terrorists are highly mobile and they make use of the latest state—of—the—art technology, and actually abuse the very freedoms that the single market provides to all of us. we just have to look at the international police operation trojan shield against organised crime two weeks ago to have a terrifying look into the dimension of cross-border criminality. we need to address this effectively, also at the european level. not only do we need a health union in europe, but we also need a real security union. we need to build the tools, the infrastructure and the environment in which national authorities can and will work together effectively to tackle these shared challenges. and of course we have europol at the heart of our cooperation, and we are very supportive of europol. it is doing an amazing job with the competences that it currently has, but if we really want to address these challenges in the future, we also need to increase the competences of europol. we need to increase them in at least four fields. first, cyber criminality: in the past four years, cyber criminality has increased tenfold. we need to do more to avoid these developments continuing in the next four years. on counter-terrorism, we need a more coordinated exchange of information to stop allowing highly mobile perpetrators to find loopholes in our member states’ tracing systems. we need more resources and technical innovation. just as an example, for the 2015 paris and brussels attacks, the europol task force had to analyse 19 terabytes of information. to give an idea, this is the equivalent of 500 million pages of paper. thirdly, we need to fight intra—eu cross-border tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance, and fourthly, we need to really start combating industrial espionage. we don’t know exactly what the economic damage is and i think we only have underestimates but, even underestimating it, it has already lost us eur 60 billion in economic growth in the eu and a potential job loss of 289 000 jobs. one in five european companies suffers from industrial espionage and we need to work harder to help these companies, especially in the period of recovery which we are about to enter. to conclude, in order to guarantee europe as an area of freedom, security and justice, and in order to defend our european way of life, we need to beef up the competences of europol, we need to give security the focus it deserves, and we really need to turn europol into a european equivalent of the fbi.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, as vice-president šefčovič has referred to the portuguese presidency, i cannot help but do the same on this point and to express a very special thanks to ana paula, our secretary of state. it was not easy, because we came from a german presidency in which very important dossiers had been put forward, and the portuguese presidency really lived up to the circumstances that the european project deserves. and it has been largely thanks to the capacity of work, commitment and understanding of a woman like ana paula. you've heard me talk a lot about breaking glass ceilings and empowering women leaders. well, ana paula, you're an example to many of us. thank you so much for your work and your commitment. time is running out and we have already seen last week that the first steps were being taken with regard to the recovery plans, and what i hope is that the council - the ecofin itself - will give the green light to the national plans already approved by the european commission from july. we need to put these plans into action now and start showing signs of recovery that the citizens are expecting from us. it is time for expansionary policies, for investing in the future to end the uncertainty and fragility that so many families and businesses have been left with. and it's time to put the money to good use. i say this because i am concerned about the situation in some countries, especially slovenia and bulgaria, from where we are receiving worrying reports of cases of corruption and attacks on the rule of law. this is absolutely unacceptable and we will be demanding that the commission be very vigilant. i have heard prime minister viktor orbán say that the european union should stick to economic issues, and this is not understanding where it is. europe is much more than economic issues. and be careful, mr orbán, you are not going to make the same mistakes as the uk. we have to tell the truth to the people, we have to tell the truth to the citizens. this is not a market. yes, it is a union for prosperity and well-being, but one that is based on shared values. these values must be reflected in the way money is used: in substance and form. basically, because the money should be invested in building a more sustainable and fairer economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules of the treaty are respected. and that also includes non-discrimination against lgbt people, to make sure that we are really in the european union of rights. it is fundamental. we cannot enter the debate without taking these issues into account and we also want to take account of the migration pact, with a reform that is in line with our values of solidarity and human rights. the blue card is one more piece of our immigration policy, but not the only one. we cannot attract only people with good skills and reject those fleeing war and hunger. that would not be the europe of the values we stand for. at least it is not the europe of values that i stand for.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam minister, i would also like to thank the portuguese presidency for what it has done in these six months, almost six months in fact, and in particular for launching the conference on the future of europe, and i hope that the portuguese presidency will use all the time that remains to finalise further dossiers. i hope in particular that the reform of the cap can be achieved under your presidency. the council now has the opportunity to thank the european covid certificates, which will enable a large part of our citizens to enjoy travelling again. it's about time that happened. it is now important that the certificate be implemented without additional unjustified restrictions by the member states. but thanks to european tourism and the resumption of cross-border activity, our small traders, an important part of our industry, will be getting some colour back, and they needed it after more than a year of restrictions. thanks to the national stimulus plans financed by europe, our economies will also be revived and will begin their dual transformation into green and digital. and with the mass vaccination of europeans, we will soon be able to turn the page on covid, i hope. herd immunity is not yet reached, but it is in sight. but the summer will also have its challenges. the most obvious one for me is the one about migration. that's the kind of challenge i'd like our leaders to prepare for. the summer months are also the time when men, women and children attempt the dangerous crossing to reach our shores in the hope of a better future in europe. as you can see, the pressure is already building up in southern europe. joe biden just announced that he's going to withdraw u.s. troops from afghanistan by september, and we can imagine some of the consequences. we also see that our closest neighbors are always unpredictable. so we can't just close our eyes and wait. we must avoid always acting in a hurry because that does not contribute to the credibility of the union. and unfortunately, in recent years, when it comes to migration, that's what we've always done. the commission has put forward its vision of an immigration and asylum pact and parliament is ready to get to the heart of the matter and start negotiations to give a clearer perspective to the european approach to migration. but now the home ministers must take a stand and start negotiating with parliament. but they can only do so under pressure from their heads of state and government. so i want to thank charles michel for putting this on the agenda of the european council and i hope that there will be an impetus for the interior ministers to also start preparing to negotiate with parliament. we know that the discussion will be complicated, but it must take place if we want a long-term solution. look at what we've been able to accomplish during the covid crisis. we have agreed on a historic recovery plan and the issuance of a joint loan. we have created a mechanism to safeguard the rule of law and we have managed a pandemic together as 27 countries, while europe lacked specific competence in the field of health. two years ago, it was unimaginable that we could find solutions so quickly to subjects that seemed so complicated. so a robust, humane and effective european migration and asylum policy is now our next impossible task, but one that must be made possible if we really want the credibility of the european union.
i have to say, madam president, 'leaving no one behind' is one of the fundamental priorities of european cohesion policy. the ecological revolution needs substantial financial support, particularly in the less developed regions of the european union. these financing programmes must be adaptable so that member states and regions can allocate funds to the most relevant areas in order to offer sustainable development opportunities to economic operators and citizens. the dissemination of information on the cohesion fund will have to be done in an efficient way and projects will have to be based on clear and measurable indicators and less on red tape. the european union can only develop further if the member states and regions do so, and the cohesion funds will provide the necessary support.
madam president, the cooperation and verification mechanism for bulgaria and romania was established in 2007 and is still ongoing. 14 years on, the european commission is proposing a rule of law monitoring system that includes all member states. it is clear that the two instruments are similar, including the way they work, which is similar, consisting of annual evaluation reports based on the collection of information from official sources, but also from civil society. overlapping of the assessment mechanisms to which member states are subject should be avoided, in accordance with the principles of sincere cooperation and equal treatment. i ask that the text of the draft resolution include the proposal made by the peti committee in paragraph 8 of the opinion sent to the libe committee, namely the request to end the cooperation and verification mechanism for romania and bulgaria.
madam president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, mr rapporteur, the balkans have always been part of europe, and if we look at bosnia and herzegovina, we see a europe in miniature. i think we have a big challenge ahead of us, and that is to help bosnia and herzegovina to accelerate the process of european integration. it is a country with many difficulties, which needs the support of the european union, precisely to accelerate even more this extremely difficult path it has undertaken. i think we have to look at the expectations of the people of this country, a people deeply attached to the european union, and now more than ever they need the support and the support of brussels. i believe that the dialogue between brussels and sarajevo must be intensified together with the related efforts for bosnia and herzegovina to move to the second stage of the stabilisation and association process, to become a candidate state to the european union.
mr president, dear colleagues, the debate over the matić report is not about right or left issues. the debate is about what is right and what is wrong. do you want in the eu a culture of life and prosperity, or a culture of death? without judging why someone might have had an abortion, we as a society cannot say that such an act is a good act since we have an obligation to protect life. to claim, therefore, in this report that abortion is a fundamental human right is undermining the foundation of the european union, which was created to safeguard the life and human dignity of every european citizen. to report also in this claim that men can give birth and they should, and i quote, ‘benefit from measures of pregnancy and birth-related care’, period. making such a claim makes the eu a laughing stock across the world. we need therefore to respect and safeguard the fundamental rights and freedoms of everybody to protect and promote the actual european values, and vote therefore against this report.
i have to say, madam president, i have really looked forward to coming to the floor today, and i have done so because today we are celebrating a historic eu law which sets out in black and white a necessary goal, namely a climate-neutral eu by 2050. but it's no secret that i had hoped for a more ambitious path to that goal and a higher 2030 target. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know that many of you in this house agree with me, but unfortunately the governments of the european union do not. fortunately, there is a 'minimum' ahead of the 55%, and fortunately i am sure that european companies are now ready to take the extra step that our governments were not. our companies have seen the potential in developing new green solutions, and now we politicians have a new task, namely to create the right framework for companies to also bring their climate dreams to life. that is how we will achieve the paris agreement, and when that happens, we will really celebrate.
mr president, climate change is no longer a matter of decades. it would have been if we had started to actually tackle it in time. but no, year after year, we pretend that there's not much going on, that we need more research, that companies will sort it out. and now there's no time to lose. but wasting time, that's exactly what we're doing with this climate bill. economic interests have won again and our earth has lost again. and we, but especially the next generations, will pay a heavy price for this. laws, and especially laws about the most important challenges we face as humanity, have to do what they have to do and do what they promise. and that's where this bill fails. the targets are falling short, the approach is too liberal, and this law will not keep global warming below one and a half degrees. and that will have disastrous consequences. and that's why it's with a heavy heart that i'm going to vote against this climate bill. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
i have to say, madam president, climate neutrality by 2050 i'm a little reluctant to use big words, but the european union has started a new era. it is crucial for nature and the environment, with great opportunities, but also with risks for the economy, jobs and people. we now have clear objectives and clear steps to take. 55 percent co2 reduction by 2030, a legislative package to expand renewables for buildings and cars, which is coming in a few weeks. and we want to take that challenging path. not with fear, but with innovation, with openness to technology, with market economy. the question for the green colleagues is: why are you rejecting this law today? climate neutrality by 2050 with interim measures that are more than paris expects us to do. what more do the greens want? are the challenges for people not dramatic enough? do you mean to deny that by your refusal to accept a feasible goal? instead of risking energy crisis, mass unemployment? electricity and gas customers in rental houses? give yourself a shake. agree to the compromise. help turn the climate crisis into something good, ecological prosperity.
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be speaking in this house today on such a significant day. today marks a turning point for europe, which for the first time passes a climate law, a collective and long-term goal that will make us the first co2-free continent in the world by 2050. the climate law, at the heart of the european green deal, is the translation of our commitment and puts us on the path to a more sustainable future. finally, the european union chooses to orient its growth strategy towards environmental sustainability, while ensuring a just, gradual transition that leaves no one behind. with this text we are turning words into action, to show our fellow europeans that we are serious. our message today is a message of seriousness to young people who have done so much to push politics to take action in the fight against climate change. but the climate bill is also a message to our international partners: this is the decisive year to raise the level of global ambition in pursuing the goals of the paris agreement and to finally shake the conscience of the major world players. the pandemic has brutally shown us the correlation between the environment and our health, and recovery plans offer us the chance to start over on a new course. this is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, and we can't afford to miss it. of course, this parliament was prepared to be more ambitious, with even more determined objectives. but despite the compromises, it remains a watershed moment. i thank all those who worked on this text, who believed in this revolution, starting with mrs guteland, and all the associations which have been watching and helping to achieve this first major objective. let us continue to work together for a future that is in step with the needs and hopes of the new generations.
madam president, madam secretary of state zacarias, mr executive vice president timmermans, the climate change of the last few years is alarming, and unless we take clear, organized action, the predictions for the next period are worrying. that's why the climate bill we're voting on today is more than necessary. the extreme weather events that are the hallmarks of climate change that we're experiencing are increasingly evident in recent times, and we're seeing that even today: from long-term droughts in some areas, to wildfires, to heavy rainfall in other areas. it's important that this law brings major improvements to our way of life, it's important that we have the lines that we need to follow in our activities, to stop climate change or even make it reversible wherever possible. but we must not forget that we have to make all these changes with the economic impact in mind, how it will affect the lives, the well-being and the economic security of europeans. we need a fine balance between the two, which should not be mutually exclusive but mutually supportive and mutually beneficial.
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, mr. president, mr. secretary, mr. timmermans, as has been said today, today we are passing climate legislation, climate rules, that give us a direction on how we can achieve an additional 30% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2030 and become a net-neutral continent in terms of greenhouse gases by 2050. to achieve this, we will have to do a lot in the coming weeks, months and years. first of all, to define a taxonomy which, in addition to renewable energy sources, will certainly have to pay attention to other low-carbon sources, and in this respect i ask you, commissioner, and all the others, to respect technological neutrality, because we will have to use many and all the resources at our disposal for this demanding transition. we are going to electrify, we are going to have the fit for 55 package, ready for 55, and there will be no room for ideology, but for science, expertise, new technologies, which we will also support with european funds. agriculture and forestry will play an important role, because they are the sectors that also need to adapt themselves to have a smaller impact on the environment, and also to be less affected. and these are the industries that are going to make this carbon neutrality possible, because agriculture and forestry are carbon sinks.
i have to say, madam president, we are making history with the european climate law. we affirm that climate change is a transboundary problem that requires transboundary solutions. no european country can sit back and wait for others to take the lead. everyone must contribute to making the eu climate neutral by 2050. the climate law gives us the common framework for how we're going to do this over the next 30 years, and our climate action is going to be based on science. that is why we are now setting up an independent european climate council to be based in copenhagen as part of the european environment agency. the climate council is to guide us in making legislation and to ensure that our climate action is both in line with the climate law and the paris agreement. to achieve the goal of climate neutrality by 2050, we have set a 2030 target. we need to reduce our co2 emissions by at least 55 percent by 2030. i would have liked a much higher reduction target. we social democrats went into the negotiations with the desire to achieve a target of at least 60%. but politics is also the art of the possible, and a few years ago the 40% target was the main topic of debate. so i feel like we're not going to stand in the corner with our arms crossed just because we didn't get everything exactly the way we wanted it. today we are taking a big step forward on climate, and it is urgently needed. that's why i support the climate bill.
madam president, mr vice president timmermans, madam president zacarias, the climate nightmare is going to hit us all. last week, the national meteorological administration of romania presented the worst-case scenarios, in which average temperatures sometimes rise in summer by 8 oc. the climate crisis is not in the future, it's already here and now. if we don't act today, within the next 10 years, life in europe will be irreversibly changed. in romania, for example, the oltenia plains will be fighting desertification dramatically. the danube delta could be completely flooded, and cities such as tulcea, galați, brăila or sulina will be flooded. the black sea will drown us and the last virgin beach in dobrogea. mr. timmermans, we are vulnerable to this goliath. i believe that the european climate law is not just an opportunity, a mockery of some bureaucrats in brussels, it is our very last lifeboat.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, a just transition must be made in time and with priority for the most affected europeans. there are whole areas of europe that are being heavily affected by the economic changes we are going through. there are people who risk being abandoned, with no prospect of a future. these people don't want a paper transition, they want a just, concrete one, in the present time. therefore, the just transition mechanism is their chance and must be used as such. in romania, for example, in just two of the largest energy complexes, namely oltenia and hunedoara, over 8 000 people will be laid off by 2032. that's why we asked for money for these people, we asked for 17.5 billion - and luckily parliament fought for this money - because they need this money now, because the territorial plans of the member states are not yet finalized. that's why, with my colleagues, i've been negotiating for more money to be invested in new jobs and to help companies become less polluting. we have set out to provide more support to the hardest hit regions, the most affected, with €35 million for technical assistance. we have proposed that these regions receive loans with 25% non-repayable money, that is, grants. commissioner, we must use the money in time, because otherwise it will be far too late and people will suffer and the image of the union will suffer and the transition will become a painful process in which citizens will no longer believe.
madam president, straight to the point. prime minister janša invalidated the procedure for appointing the two slovenian european delegated prosecutors five days before the eppo became fully operational. this cast a shadow on the full start of the process, raises questions about the independence of the judiciary in slovenia and represents, i quote, ‘a serious deficiency in the effective functioning of the management and control system as foreseen in the common provision.’ it clearly puts the eu funds at risk. this is not a political game as mr janša claims. the slovenian national prosecution offices simply cannot investigate crimes for which the eppo has exclusive competence, and therefore the eppo cannot fully operate in slovenia as it lacks its representatives on the ground. slovenia will be assuming the presidency of the council of the eu in exactly one week. i call on mr janša and the competent slovenian authorities to finalise the nomination procedure for the european delegated prosecutors and allow the eppo to fully function before the start of the slovenian presidency. if it does not happen urgently the commission should launch infringement proceedings as well as use all necessary tools, including suspension of funds. the independence of the eppo and of the judiciary and the protection of the eu budget are not negotiable matters, and i hope that mr janša knows that.
in writing. – i welcome the outcome of the negotiations on the european maritime, fisheries and aquaculture fund, and that we will be able to support the renewal of generations of fishermen from the black sea, and create the premises for a sustainable development of the fisheries and aquaculture sector in europe, and implicitly in romania. the regulation i voted today will help the fisheries sector to adapt their businesses to face the challenges of the european green deal. this vote recognises the importance of the fisheries and aquaculture sector in ensuring food security for europeans.
madam president, commissioner dalli, despite the challenges we face today, we have a unique opportunity to change the way we look at the ageing phenomenon, as we have argued in this report with renew europe. active ageing measures should allow for activities with an impact on the community, a flexible work environment for older employees, intergenerational exchanges and actions to maintain health status. all of this is powering the silver economy, which will create a huge market at the intersection of demand driven by demographic change and supply driven by the technological revolution. there is enormous potential to support the care industry, i.e. medical and therapeutic services for chronic diseases offered in particular to the vulnerable elderly population. for romania we are talking about an enormous economic potential that could place the country as one of the leaders in this field. i support the creation of a national network at european standards for geriatric healthcare, research and social gerontology, geriatric and palliative care and linking it with health and balneoclimatic tourism. the contribution of romanian medical and healthcare professionals is already a foundation recognised at european level on which we can build solidly.
madam president, i think we are in the midst of a war, a war with non-military weapons, because what is happening now, we know very well, they create fake news, they disinformation, they manipulate, putin suspends human rights whenever interests dictate, they undermine democracy and our response must be very tough, mr high commissioner, because i think we have to rethink the whole architecture of the union in terms of defending against disinformation. we need a commissioner to combat disinformation and defend democracy. we need a billion euro fund to defend the free press in the associated states and the member states. we have to fight, because, look, on july 11th there are elections in the republic of moldova an associated state of the european union. putin, personally, has created parties and 20 media outlets through which he tries to keep this state in his sphere of influence. we must do more and i call on the citizens of the republic of moldova to vote on sunday to get rid of moscow's influence.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we must congratulate the two colleagues who took the initiative of putting to the vote a resolution on the extension of the measures to be included in this law inspired by the magnitsky act. i believe that human rights must remain a cornerstone and a priority of the european union's external action. but let's not forget that there are states that are controlled by oligarchs or dictators who sit at the table with oligarchs and enjoy freedom, all the benefits that our societies offer. that is why i believe that corruption must be included in the sanctions regime we have to provide and that the law must be applied uniformly throughout the european union. there can be no double standards and there can be no dialogue with those who violate our values. and that's why i strongly believe that we need to put the necessary pressure on this law to make it work, and those who steal from the public purse, those who keep dictators alive, must be held personally accountable and must be punished by the tools we have. only then will there be a strong union, a union to which people all over the world will look with hope at all times.
madam president, commissioner, that is a positive message i want to convey. today's debate concerns the annual report on the functioning of the schengen area. but the question is, commissioner, how can we talk about a real functioning schengen area when three member states of the european union are not in the schengen area today and two countries, romania and bulgaria, have been waiting for more than 10 years to be accepted. you can't imagine how much this unjust decision affects the more than 20 million romanian citizens, given that we know what efforts we have made as a nation and state to meet all the conditions. we came later to the club. we know what we have to recover and correct at home, but we consider ourselves to be not fully integrated, as long as this situation we are in has been waiting for more than a decade and we believe that our place is here, in the space without borders. all eu citizens have experienced again during the pandemic what it means to reintroduce border controls. that's why, after this pandemic, we must remove any barriers that separate us.
member of the commission. – madam president, the vote tomorrow on the reform of the visa information system will conclude the legislative process which started more than three years ago, and i think it’s a great achievement. the negotiations were not always easy and they were complicated, but they were conducted in a very cooperative manner thanks to the constructive attitude of you, paulo rangel, the rapporteur, but also as well to the finnish, croatian and german presidencies. i also thank the portuguese presidency for bringing this process forward. border checks will be smoother for travellers and the eu borders will be more secure.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, july 7, 2021.
the sitting is closed and will resume at 9 a.m. tomorrow, when the results of the second vote today will be announced. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
i would like to draw your attention to the cowardly attack on dutch investigative journalist peter r. de vries yesterday. for the fifth time in less than four years, an investigative journalist is literally under fire for the work he or she does. peter r. de vries is fighting for his life right now. i therefore hope for an expression of sympathy and support from this house. i think everyone's hoping he'll get over it. we must not only reaffirm our solidarity with journalists, but also work even harder to ensure that europe is not governed by organised crime but by law and the state. i think we are all very motivated in this respect. today, however, i would like to draw attention to peter r. de vries.
thank you mr. in 't veld for this communication. of course, the european parliament is close to us and we will follow developments.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council of 24 and 25 june 2021 (2021/2729 ((rsp)). i would remind you that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the discussions of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. as in previous sessions, the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states will also be responsible for remote assistance.
president of the european council. mr president of the european parliament, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, fellow members of the european parliament, before i turn to the report following the european council meeting ten days ago, i would like to endorse the remarks made by sophie int veld. a crime has been committed against a journalist and this crime is an attack on our fundamental values, on the freedom of the press. it is a crime that must be condemned and i would like to express my solidarity with the families and friends of the victim, my solidarity also with the netherlands, with the government of the netherlands. i would like to warmly thank the portuguese presidency. this was an exceptionally intensive and productive presidency and warm thanks to you, portugal. the baton now passes to the slovenian presidency with many challenges. we tackled many important issues during our last european council covid-19, migration, external relations and our economic recovery. we also held a euro area summit and hosted un secretarygeneral antónio guterres. today i will focus on the major topics. discussing our fundamental values at european council level was not a common practice in the past but last year, during our four-day meeting in july, we held a full session on the rule of law and that was the first. recently the legislation passed in hungary has caused widespread concern in particular among eu leaders, and this is why i decided to discuss the issue at our last meeting. lgbtqi+ rights are not a marginal issue. they are a concrete example of how a society relates to diversity and how it relates to human dignity. it touches on our most intimate thoughts and beliefs, our fundamental freedoms. in the european union we do not discriminate, we integrate. that's the meaning of article 2 of our treaty. our discussion was necessary, difficult, and at times emotional. many leaders expressed deep concern. the prime minister of hungary explained the motives behind the new laws, the president of the commission gave her assessment and the formal steps the commission might take as guardian of the treaties. for my part, i concluded with two remarks. first, our debate should encourage the hungarian government to reflect on the values that bind us together as one european union and the conference on the future of europe must be an opportunity to put our fundamental rights front and centre. secondly, eu law has primacy in our union. we have the tools and institutions to uphold our principles and our laws. the rule of law will run its course. we also had the opportunity to address the issue of covid-19 once again. i would sum up the debate by saying that on the one hand we welcome the progress being made throughout europe in relation to vaccination campaigns; at the same time, we are well aware that we must remain extremely focused and vigilant in relation to the emergence of new variants and mutations, especially the delta variant, and this is the meaning of the desire to strengthen cooperation in order to find that right balance between, on the one hand, the return to freedoms, the return to mobility and, on the other hand, the vigilance that remains necessary. we welcome the progress made with the covid certificate as part of travel recommendations. but we also feel that national measures must be more closely coordinated so that additional measures taken at national level do not add complexity to existing difficulties. the issue of migration was also on the agenda of this european council. we have mainly focused our discussions on the external dimension of migration. our aim is naturally to prevent tragedies involving loss of human life. our aim is to reduce pressure at the external borders of the european union, and we agreed to seek the most operational proposals from the european commission and the high representative before the autumn, in order to consider strengthening cooperation with third countries, countries of origin and transit countries, identifying priority countries for the european union. i would like to state very strongly that we have condemned the attempt by certain third states to use or exploit illegal migration to exert political pressure on the european union. we had a long discussion on russia. we remain committed to a united, long-term and strategic approach based on the five guiding principles and we remain fully united. we call on russia to assume its responsibility in fully implementing the minsk agreements. we also agreed on the need for a firm and coordinated response to any illegal and disruptive activities by russia. we therefore invited the commission and the high representative to present possible options for additional restrictive measures. we also agreed on our continued support for people-to-people contacts, russian civil society and human rights organizations. more broadly, we are also committed to deeper cooperation with our eastern partners and with central asia. we discussed possible selective engagement with russia in areas of eu interest climate change, environment, health, foreign affairs and security and we will explore the formats of, and conditions for, dialogue with russia. finally, given no progress in implementing the minsk agreements, we have agreed to proceed with a rollover of the sanctions and we will come back to eu-russia relations at a future meeting. the de-escalation in the eastern mediterranean is a good sign, but constructive engagement needs to be deepened. engagement with turkey in a phased, proportionate and reversible manner remains our policy. work has started at technical level towards modernising the eu-turkey customs union, and at the same time work needs to deepen on addressing existing irritants. and the commission has outlined an indicative financing framework for the continued financing for syrian refugees and host communities in turkey, jordan, lebanon and other parts of the region. the european council expects this work to be taken forward without delay, and we therefore call for formal commission proposals. we will continue to actively support the process to settle the cyprus problem according to relevant un resolutions, including the issue of varosha, and we are very clear: a two-state solution is a non-starter. the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights remain a key concern, in particular the targeting of political parties in the media and women's rights. dialogue on these issues remains an important part of the eu-turkey relationship. we have finally had the opportunity to devote part of this european summit to economic questions. on the one hand, we welcome the progress made since last year and the agreement on the european budget and the recovery fund. we welcome the fact that the national plans, as part of this recovery plan, are gradually being analysed by the commission and will be able to be implemented. we understand that this is not the end of the matter. we are aware of the importance of continuing to coordinate and cooperate our economic activities. we also believe that the two pillars of these fundamental transitions, climate change and the digital agenda, must be at the heart of our concerns. and we see with some satisfaction that several european countries that have already introduced plans have been very careful to follow these recommendations to devote a significant part of the funding to this recovery, through climate transitions and digital transitions. however, much remains to be done, notably in the context of the banking union and the capital markets union. on these issues, we had an exchange of views with the president of the eurogroup and the president of the european central bank, and we encourage the finance ministers to continue their efforts on a working plan to make progress on the banking union. perhaps also a point on the capital markets union. the president of the commission has re-focused the countries around the table on proposals to move forward on this important issue and i note that many have also expressed the importance of working on the green dimension of this capital market and the idea of promoting this green finance as a lever for economic development, but also to gradually achieve our ambitious climate targets. finally, we also exchanged views on the recent progress, particularly in the g7 context, on international corporate taxation. the commission will shortly present a package of legislation on climate, but also a package on own resources. there is no doubt that this debate will continue in different democratic forums to bring about more international fairness in taxation, whether in the digital sector or more generally for all businesses. that, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, is the information i wanted to share with you following the recent european summit. i shall of course be at your disposal to respond to any comments or questions that may be put to me.
president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european council has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the european council will be very active in this area. but no item on the agenda was more important than our discussion of a subject that touches the very core of our identity: our values. the heads of state or government had a very personal and emotional discussion on the new hungarian law. this law says, among other things, that films, information and publications with depictions of lesbians and gays can no longer be shown to children and adolescents under 18 years of age in hungary. and it is claimed that this information has a negative impact on the physical and moral development of minors. this law puts homosexuality and gender reassignment on the same level as pornography. this law uses the protection of children - which we are all committed to - as a pretext to discriminate against people because of their sexual orientation. this law is disgraceful! (applause) it is profoundly contrary to the fundamental values of the european union, the protection of minorities, human dignity, equality and respect for human rights - values which are so firmly anchored in article 2 of our treaty. the european council heads of state or government have expressed their strong support for the commission and i will use all the instruments at the commission's disposal to defend these principles. that's what i'd like to focus on today. i would like to take this opportunity to give you a broader overview of the way in which we want to defend our values, the rule of law and the financial interests of our union. the first is the hungarian law itself. as you know, commissioners reynders and breton have written to the hungarian authorities to express our legal concerns about this law. if hungary does not correct its position, the commission will exercise the powers conferred on it by the treaty as guardian of the treaty. we are clear: we will use these powers in any member state which infringes european law. since the beginning of my mandate, we have initiated some 40 infringement procedures related to the protection of the rule of law and other values of the european union enshrined in article 2 of the treaty, and, if necessary, other procedures will follow. we just cannot stand aside while whole regions declare themselves as so-called lgbtqifree zones. europe will never allow parts of our society to be stigmatised, be it because of whom they love, because of their age, their ethnicity, their political opinions or their religious beliefs. because we should never forget: when we stand up for parts of our society, we stand up for the freedom of the whole of our society. the second point is the protection of the european budget. this is not an abstract question. this is about european taxpayers' money, and we want to watch over it closely. this is why we have agreed on a new conditionality mechanism. this mechanism is at the very heart of next generation eu and the european budget. measures must be taken if it is established that breaches of the rule of law in member states affect, or risk seriously affecting, the sound financial management of the union budget or the financial interests of the european union. i know how important this point is to you in the european parliament and to us in the commission, and i look forward to the decision of the court of justice. this will bring clarity for everyone in europe. meanwhile, our officials are examining all the facts which could be relevant for later proceedings, and we drew up guidelines on how to apply the conditionality mechanism in practice. we are currently discussing these with you in parliament. we will start the first files in the autumn. so what i said when we adopted the budget holds true: not a single case will be lost. the conditionality mechanism will also help to protect next generation eu because, if our union is investing more money than ever before to advance our collective recovery, we must take special care that this money is used properly and effectively. this is not only a vital ingredient of our democracies, it also creates trust for investors and business at this crucial moment. this is why in the national recovery plans of member states, we include a strong system of controls and milestones to monitor where the money goes. we will look at good governance, anti-corruption measures and the fight against fraud. in addition, we will use the financial agreement signed with each member state to make clear what we expect, for example, smooth cooperation with the european anti-fraud office (olaf) because, in the end, it is the european people who are paying for all this. these are the tools at our disposal, including the article 7 procedure, but we all know that even the best tools cannot replace an honest debate about values. this is about the europe we want to live in. it goes to the core of the values on which our union was founded and which resonate throughout the world: democracy, equality before the law, respect for court judgments, free media. and these values bind us together: north and south and east and west. we may not agree on every aspect of a certain law, but we have to agree on respecting the judgments of the independent courts that settle our disputes and we have to agree on the primacy of european law. we might not agree on which project to grant european funds, but we have to agree that this money should be spent properly. we might disagree with a lot we see in our media, but we have to agree that journalists investigating potential abuses of power are not a threat, but an asset to our democracies and our societies. and our thoughts and solidarity go to the journalist, peter de vries, in these moments. we also have our different views when it comes to the future of our european union, but we must accept the right for everyone to openly express their opinion without humiliating or diminishing others. we might even disagree about the best way of life, but we must agree on the right for each and everyone to make this decision for oneself. honourable members, there are many places in the world where you can earn a good living and do great business. however, when it comes to living in peace and freedom, there's no better place than europe. europe is diverse, europeans are diverse, yet we stood together. it is our values that unite us. i would like to thank you for your support. (applause) i would like to thank
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. president sassoli, president von der leyen, president michel, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to take up the points made by the european council today, starting with russia. we, the european people's party, welcome the results in dealing with russia. we always reach out, to be in conversation with all the partners, to talk to all the partners. but good policy starts with proper analysis, and obviously russia is not prepared to accept that outstretched hand. we are witnessing an aggressive, non-dialogue-minded russia. we see this in syria, in crimea, in the navalny case, in the internal freedom struggles in russia and in the cyber attacks on europe. that is why the only effective and correct approach, mr president, is to set limits and also make clear what the cost to russia will be if those limits are exceeded. this is the right approach and we support it. there is always the discussion of how this could have happened - for example, the nato, the eu discussions, whether it should expand to the east. i would like to make it clear to us as a group that russia has no right to decide on other countries. if ukraine wants to go west, and this is its free will, then that is its decision and not moscow's decision. we are currently having another discussion about the satellite state attached to russia: belarus. the european union must not allow itself to be blackmailed by lukashenka. we now have the increasing numbers of migrants at the belarusian-lithuanian border, and the first important point is that we are standing by lithuania, that we are supporting, that we are providing frontex support and also providing easo activities. the development there also reminds us that the 10,000 frontex officers we are actually trying to build are moving too slowly to better protect our external borders. i would like to remind you, when we talk about belarus, because we have already talked about freedom of the media today, even more of the hundreds, of the thousands of freedom fighters who are now in prison in belarus. they too need our support, and their efforts must not be forgotten. finally, ladies and gentlemen, hungary. europe is the promise of freedom. this law is a disgrace, as our commission president has said. the epp will support the joint resolution we have tabled today because it is important that we define common positions on these fundamental questions. but we all feel that there is more to it than that. the hungarian government is running advertisements throughout europe, questioning the idea of ever closer union, for example. i would remind you once again that it is not about an ever closer union of states, but about an ever closer union of peoples. that is the wording in the text of the treaty. and she wants to abolish the european parliament. 213 million people voted in 2019 for this freely elected parliament. 213 million people voted! the only democratic chamber on this continent wants viktor orbán, wants to abolish the hungarian government. ladies and gentlemen, this is not a matter of party politics. it is a question of whether or not we can achieve a strong europe close to the people. many christian democrats are among the founding fathers of this european union. that's why i'm saying today, the fight is going to a new round. we are defending the european project.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the discriminatory law of the lgbti community passed by the hungarian parliament requires a firm reaction. and i am glad to have heard mr michel and mrs von der leyen today take a clear stand in defence of the rule of law. we know that mr orbán is not alone, as the infamous 'lgbt ideology-free zones' in poland or the unfortunate sympathy of the slovenian government with this ideological drift demonstrate. that's enough! we are part of a community of fundamental values and principles. it is necessary to bear in mind that the solution does not consist in pointing the way out to hungary - we must also say this. hungary is not your government. let's not forget that. we have other instruments: let us speed up the article 7 procedure once and for all and let us move forward with the suspension of funds for deficiencies in the rule of law. we must also be able to improve our ability to react in an increasingly turbulent neighborhood. the latest act of state piracy by belarus, the encroachments by russia with illegal annexations of territory, poisonings, cyber attacks and propaganda, the defiant attitude of turkey in the mediterranean waters and the use of people on the southern shore to give a pulse to the borders of the union require quick and precise responses, and to do this we need to explore thoroughly the possibilities of acting without unanimity with the margin offered by the treaty. the european union is not only an economic giant, but has already demonstrated its ability to exercise geopolitical power when circumstances require it. the sanctions against russia following the illegal annexation of crimea in 2014 have dealt a significant blow to moscow, which has been made possible by a remarkable example of unity. the relationship with russia has brought to light another dividing line between the member states. while some partners' suspicions of russia are justified, they are wrong to reject a high-level dialogue with the russian authorities. dialogue itself is not a concession. a global power like the european union has to talk to all actors, including those with whom it has deep disagreements. with neighbours like putin, lukashenko or erdoğan we need a strategy that combines maximum firmness in response to their abuses with dialogue to defend our interests in the face of common challenges. the pandemic is really continuing to transform the balance of power globally. the huge gap between countries with fewer resources and more advanced economies has repercussions around the world: economically and socially, with increasing inequalities, and in the health field, with the risk of new variants of the virus. the european union should lead both global vaccination and the mobilisation of public funding to ensure access to international liquidity for developing economies. because a rapid global economic recovery will not only result in the well-being of european citizens, but also in europe's influence in the world of tomorrow.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, last week we, the renew group members, sent you a letter asking you to suspend the adoption of viktor orbán's recovery plan. in this letter we explain that today we have no guarantee that the money from the european recovery will benefit the honest and deserving hungarian citizens. and we also told you that in the current state of affairs, there is a high chance that this money will simply be misappropriated by the orbán regime. yesterday we learned from the german press that you accepted this request and that you intended to suspend the adoption of the plan for the time being. one of the conditions that a state must meet to access the recovery plan is to have a reliable and robust anti-corruption system in place, which we have provided in the legislation on this recovery plan. this is unfortunately not the case in viktor orbán's hungary. in addition, in 2019, the commission observed an increase in corruption and favouritism in hungary. in 2020, you saw a further weakening of the anti-fraud mechanism. in 2021, you also observed that the corruption of the orbán regime is systemic. these are the observations of the commission which we now expect to find in the commission's evaluation of this plan. so it is time to act. by suspending the adoption of the plan proposed by orbán, you have taken a step in the right direction. but the point is not to delay for the sake of delay. we need strong guarantees from this government, as from all governments, that these rules are being respected. in our letter of 27 june last we proposed three of these guarantees which, in our opinion, based on the commission's analysis, should be included in the hungarian government's proposal. first, that orbán legally commits to provide all data on the beneficiaries of the stimulus plan. this is not the case today. even if we have olaf, hungary is not part of the european public prosecutor's office. but even olaf does not always have all the data to analyse how eu money is used. secondly, orbán must put in place a legal framework to prevent people already involved in fraud cases from accessing the bailout money. this would prevent his stepson, for example, who has been repeatedly targeted by olaf but never punished by the hungarian courts, from continuing to pocket european money. in addition, orbán should commit to repealing all laws that impede access to public information by civil society and investigative journalists. madam president, not approving the hungarian recovery plan at this stage is not punishing hungary, but punishing orbán and those who use european money to hit europe. hungarian citizens are not fooled, because more than 80% of them think that the regime is corrupt, so they are very aware of what is happening in their country. the problem is rising in budapest and european money cannot sustain it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, time is running out and we must face reality. in poland, a real emigration has begun, an escape from the more conservative parts of the country where cases of homophobia multiply, leading to violence. in hungary, since july 1st, it is even forbidden to broadcast a film in which a homosexual person appears. but where are we? this is all happening in our home, in europe. how can we afford this? how can we just ignore it? in both countries, the climate of hatred and the witch-hunt that has been initiated by the governments has turned the lgbtqi community into the public enemy of the nation. these european citizens feel alone in their own countries. they cannot even rely on the judges, who are now aligned with the politicians, if not even chosen by them. these citizens have only us. they have the european union, we are their hope and we cannot betray their expectations. i want to remind you that raffaella carrà has been missing for a few days. you all know her. she said: "the world is not made of gays and straight, but of creatures", let us remember, we must do something in hungary, also in poland.
mr president, there will be a day when the polish people and the hungarian people will ask ‘where were the european institutions when they attacked the independence of the judiciary, when they closed universities, when they got all the media in their hands, when they started to persecute lgbtqi people, when they heard hate speech against migrants, where were the european institutions?’ the parliament was acting, the commission was acting, but the european council does nothing. until now. it’s not only the problem of the presidency: even the portuguese presidency decided to remain neutral about this law in hungary. and so there will be a day when there will be a democratic question in these countries and they will say, ‘where were you? you were not able to protect our rule of law. you were not able to protect our separation of powers. you were not able to protect our fundamental rights’. what really causes damage to the european union is not this kind of breach. it is our absence of action. that is what really damages the european union. so i urge the european council to act immediately on article 7, and if article 7 doesn’t work, to do a political movement on this way. that will be enough to change things in hungary and in poland.
mr president, vice-president jourová, who in this house is discussing the right of parents to provide for the education of their children? no one did. but to pretend that this debate on the infamous hungarian law is about that is the height of hypocrisy. minors in the european union do not need to be protected from the dissemination of educational and informational content on diversity, sexual orientation or gender identity. but a law that prohibits it, that prohibits talking about it, is contrary not only to values but to the law of the european union. have you not read article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which is as binding as the treaties? to associate homosexuality with pedophilia is an abject infamy. pedophilia is a serious crime throughout the european union, but the equal dignity of all people, without discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, is not only not a crime, it is a fundamental right. the european parliament has done everything it can to make things clear to mr orbán: it has activated article 7 and the council has only to do its part; it has urged infringement procedures; it has regulated the conditionality of access to european funds to the rule of law; and it says very clearly that hungarian law has no place in europe, just as the homophobic crime against samuel in spain or the attack on journalist peter r. de vries in the netherlands. there is a place in europe for the millions of europeans who are resisting orbán in hungary; they are not alone, the european parliament represents them; and their struggle and their indignation are ours.
mr president, my thoughts are today with peter de vries and his family. and i have had enough of orbán, kaczyński, and others like them. i’ve had enough of their lies, of their propaganda, of the way they dismantle media freedom every single day, of the way they disrespect eu law, of the way they target minorities, of the way they attack fundamental freedoms every single day. i’ve had enough of it! we’ve all had enough of it. the question is: is the council aware of this? has the council had enough of it? are you aware, council, that through your silence you are a ram for this vicious agenda? i’m calling for a vote under article 72 and i’m calling on you to end this circus. this is if we still want to have a european project, if we still want to have a union and if we still want to have a council after all. (applause)
in writing. – the overwhelming majority of the council members were outraged by the anti-lgbtiq law orbán introduced in hungary. rightfully so. orbán has crossed redlines before but that was a new low. i welcome the response by most heads of state and government but it should not stop here. the council needs to trigger article 7 against this hungarian government. all legal means should be applied in order to show orbán that he has gone too far. we are a union of values whether orbán likes it or not. he does not want to listen to reason, he therefore must face the consequences. the hungarian anti-lgbtiq law goes against everything the european union stands for. when you are a member of the eu, you sign up to our values. it is not an ‘a la carte’ menu. we need to stand up against the deteriorating situation of lgbtiq-rights in hungary. we have to take action and hold the hungarian government accountable. this is about protecting what is most precious, the freedom of our people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in just a few weeks, 250 million citizens have downloaded the european union's covid-19 certificate. it is a success for europe and also for our parliament, which has persistently overcome the incomprehensible resistance of the member states, but we cannot stop. the application of the certificate has brought to light some critical elements which mainly concern national implementations. we therefore ask the commission to provide a stronger directive clarifying the rights of those who have received a single dose of vaccine or have had a heterologous vaccination or for the recognition of a vaccination carried out abroad. we have implemented within a few months a document which guarantees european citizens the freedom of movement recognised in the treaties. scientists tell us that for some time yet, we will have to live with the virus, its variants, or perhaps new diseases. we therefore call on the commission to work quickly to adapt the characteristics and uses of the certificate as it progresses. the suspension of freedom of movement in europe, even in the presence and evolution of the virus, must remain only a distant memory.
mr president, the eu digital covid certificate is already in use by 200 million europeans. we have it on our phone, and it's a great thing! i have called from the beginning, together with our political group, for a simple solution that would open europe to us, a ticket to europe without any further restrictions. but what is the practice? slovakia first announced the closure of the border crossings, to take it back. however, unvaccinated arrivals will be sent to quarantine even with an eu digital covid certificate. croatia is changing the entry conditions in the order of hours. confusion is building. if this keeps up, we're gonna need navigation through stamps and regulations to travel around europe. so my appeal to the member states today is: please, let us not be surprised! try to have maximum freedom of movement in europe. that's what we've been aiming for from the beginning, and that's what we've promised our citizens.
mr president, commissioner kyriakides, mr reynders, i want you to imagine that you are an elderly man in a village in romania or here in france. even today, the press is talking about a man who arrived at the ati, unvaccinated, who said crying: "i didn't know about the vaccine, nobody told me". also, the green certificate is a good thing and i got it hard. not all countries have implemented it in time, not all citizens have received it. many people say, "i didn't know". europe has passed an act, but that doesn't mean it can go on holiday. we have to stay here for the humans, because we risk going back to where we started, now that the delta strain is already here. with 50% of europeans vaccinated, we are at risk, with 25% of romanians vaccinated, we are one foot in the grave. vaccination is our only key to the vault. either we make winter chariot and summer sleigh, or we'll be forever unprepared. i want to be with people all the way. the pandemic is not over in europe, nor should our aid be.
madam president, commissioner neghini, ladies and gentlemen, limited production capacity during the pandemic, coupled with increased demand from the chinese market, but also limited transport capacity for raw materials and construction materials have influenced and are still influencing prices, and these will have negative effects on the european economy and beyond. the european union's economic strategy must take into account a number of issues, including economic security. it's the balance between ecological transformation, globalization and local production that we need to find to prevent economic crises. another important aspect is the diversification of the european union's strategic partnerships. with an economic boom and growing demand for raw materials and construction materials in china, we need to build and strengthen new partnerships to ensure that the european economy does not find itself in difficulty even at the moments when investment projects are crucial. the challenges of the pandemic have shown for the first time that the european union can and knows how to react quickly in times of crisis. i think we should turn this experience into a permanent exercise, a way of working in which the response to challenges is both quick and effective. the ecological, digital and social transformations we want in the european union, cohesion policies and the provision of quality healthcare can only be achieved by building a secure, competitive and prosperous economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, anyone who wants to take away the freedom of a nation must start by banning freedom of speech. this quote alone should give us a sense of the actions taken by the hong kong authorities, who are increasingly being identified as proxies for beijing. the pattern is clear: the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. there is very little left of the "one china, two systems" principle. it is painfully obvious how the system is now one and it is beijing's. with apple daily not only one of the news outlets is shut down, one of the last ones trying to break the spread of the single thought, to be brought to its knees is also the popular sentiment in favor of democracy, strongly rooted in individual citizens, who will eventually resign and bend in front of this abuse. if we want to prevent this from happening, realpolitik cannot and must not prevail in europe. we must not hesitate to respond decisively to these violations, including targeted sanctions by the global regime against those responsible for them. we cannot remain silent because we are also citizens of hong kong today.
mr president, when hong kong’s largest pro-democracy paper, apple daily, was forced to announce its closure, a chilling message was sent to the people regarding the freedom of expression, as well as a blow to media freedom in the city. let us not forget the valuable role played by the media. freedom of the press is vital for informing citizens about public affairs and monitoring the actions of governments at all levels. yes, we all may get frustrated by the opinions and actions of some journalists at times, but as a whole, they’re a necessity for a free and just society, and they should be protected. i would therefore like to join the calls for the hong kong authorities to release all detained journalists, as well as all peaceful protesters, activists and political representatives, the charges against whom appear to be purely political. several months ago, we spoke in this chamber about the unilateral introduction of national security legislation by the government in beijing and what that would mean for the city of hong kong’s autonomy, rule of law and the integrity of one country, two systems. unfortunately, since then we’ve continued to see a deterioration in the situation of human rights in hong kong. the strict application of the national security legislation, the erosion of rights and the increased crackdown on any dissent prevents a relationship of trust between china and the eu, undermines future cooperation and leads to further erosion of beijing’s credibility on the international stage. i would also like to take this opportunity to once again mention the case of richard o'halloran, whose case has been spearheaded here by my colleague barry andrews. richard is an irish citizen and father of four from dublin, who has been refused permission to exit china since march 2019. i sincerely hope that there can be a resolution to this case as soon as possible. we stand with hong kong.
mr president, i think we are all watching with great horror what is happening in hong kong. hong kong's democratic regime is no longer what it once was. the rights of the people are being increasingly restricted under the guise of national security, with the de facto abolition of freedom of the press as the absolute, sad low point. no more democracy. and we in the eu have let that happen. we stood by, we watched and we did nothing. in other words, we have failed the people of hong kong. we all know that the regime in china is now looking at taiwan. are we going to do the same? are we going to use words, stand up for democracy and human rights, and then do nothing? i suggest that the commission should turn its back on this and start negotiating an investment agreement with taiwan, for example, to make it clear to the world that we are not going to let the taiwanese down as well.
mr president, a few months ago carrie lam said that foreign powers should not intervene in hong kong’s affairs because they are china’s affairs and this jeopardises national security. but what does national security really mean? let me tell you, for the people of hong kong, it is the forced shutdown of the only pro-democracy newspaper, apple daily. it is journalists that are being detained and arrested just for doing their job. it is children being taught under suppressive methods that do not encourage critical thinking. and it’s the 100th anniversary: the ccp is ruthlessly expanding its power, trampling on hong kong’s sovereignty. it is no longer enough for us just to be concerned. it is high time we changed into actions and applied the eu magnitsky act. let’s send china a clear message. we stand for the people of hong kong and we won’t move aside. that’s not foreign interference, i’m sorry: that’s just doing our job. that’s protecting freedom.
the air transport sector was already under pressure before the corona crisis and is now really on the move. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised. research shows that unfair competition has long been a threat to aviation safety. so some people earn very low wages, but they have an insanely high workload. there is little oversight, there is little readiness to report, and all of this contributes to flight safety. it's in the air that you have to trust each other blindly. you have to be able to count on your colleagues: from security to baggage handlers to cabin crew, everyone contributes to a safe flying environment and thus to a safe flight. i therefore call on the commission to impose social conditions on landing rights, in order to improve working conditions and ensure road safety. one more comment on the klm aid programme. yes, we voted with great conviction for the allocation of funds to klm last month, but there are many more people at schiphol who have seen their jobs threatened. and i think all the people at the airport deserve our support.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their interest and passion in tackling aviation issues. they were not only the ones reflected by the two questions, but we had a whole array of issues around aviation. as commissioner for transport, i have learned that everyone is very interested in transport generally, and everyone has an opinion on transport. of all the sectors and interconnection in transport, i would say that aviation creates more interest for everyone. some love it, some do not love aviation that much but, for sure, nearly everyone has used, or is using either the services of aviation – meaning flying – or at least products that were transported by air. the importance of the sector overall in our lives is something we cannot deny. this is a sector of highly—skilled people and high—end technologies, so it is a success of our european story, and it is here to stay, as much as the others. of course, we had the crisis, which brought particularly significant challenges to the aviation sector, to the people who work there and all horizontal industry working for aviation. i recall that we were all so shocked at the beginning, and were concerned about what we could do to help. now, opinions have nuanced a bit, and some are asking if the help was good enough and if it is creating fair competition or not. should we change the rules? some are saying we should bring in further regulation or try to steer things from brussels. there are some things that are true. aviation is required, as are other sectors, to decarbonise itself. it is required to have high standards in social matters, and we are on a good path towards this end. it is still true that it has to exist first in order to improve. the whole covid crisis made us think and introduce the resilience factor into our own policies. i’m saying all this because we are, of course, now seeing the strategy that we are going to put forward – the revision of air services regulation – with the aims which we discussed, and i agree with you that we have to tackle this. all the reports are showing that we have to look at it. as i said, for example, in my initial statement, the fact is that we have to define the notion of operational base and other issues around the subjects covered by the air services regulation. but before doing that, we have to have an evaluation on the crisis situation and on the effects of the crisis. that’s why we ordered a study, which is going to be conducted this year. someone here asked me to give an exact timeline, so i’m telling you that the commission proposal can be expected in the first quarter of 2022. according to our better regulation standards, we will have this separate study. the work on the study and the impact assessment will be held in parallel. the two will go together so that, by the end of next year, we can propose something which would be honestly helpful. this is on the service regulation. some of you mentioned the topic of the decarbonisation of aviation. you can expect the ‘fit for 55’ package, which would include – at least from our transport perspective – the issue of eu aviation, with the aim of helping the decarbonisation of the fuels used. then, of course, there are other pricing measures, probably proposed by other dgs. in the end, there is no silver bullet for the decarbonisation of aviation. there is a basket of measures, but we have to be reasonable and smart, because we want to keep the competitiveness of the sector, we want to keep the highly—skilled jobs, and we have to take all these actions together with the industry. it cannot be done in an office in brussels. we have a high responsibility towards the industry, and it is to help them to have the competitiveness and the economic viability to make the changes and the investments needed for the future of this transport sector. talking about the socially more-responsible sector, it should be recalled that achieving this is not something the commission can do on its own. this requires the active participation and contribution of all parties concerned. member states, the commission, the other institutions, airlines, employers, workers’ organisations – everyone should act together towards achieving this goal. it’s not something which can be produced in a laboratory and then slotted into the system. again, i’m pleased by the strong interest of the european parliament in this matter. i’m looking forward to working with you in the years to come for a successful review of the service regulation, which would help support the recovery and resilience of the industry in the short, medium and long term. thank you very much. i’m looking forward to our next debate.
the debate is closed. this is not the final act of this week. we will have the announcement of the results at 16.30, but those who are not taking part in this very exciting point may already feel accompanied now by my very best wishes for the summer break. written statements (rule 171)
the ppe group has sent the president a decision on the change of appointments to committees. this decision shall be published in the minutes of today's meeting and shall enter into force on the day of its notification.
the minutes of the meetings of 5 to 8 july 2021 shall be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next session. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at these meetings to the persons and bodies named in them.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 8 july 2021.
(the sitting was opened at 5.04 p.m.) president. - the debate is closed. i greet the colleagues who are here and are connected by the eplo. i hope that you all had a good summer and a good holiday, although many events have occupied all the members with matters which, as we know, have a heavy influence on this time.
the minutes and the texts adopted at the sitting of 5 july were distributed. are there any comments? there are no comments and the minutes are approved.
the competent authorities of greece have sent me a request to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr emmanouil fragkos in order to bring criminal proceedings against him. in accordance with the rules of procedure, this request is to be referred to the parliament's committee on legal affairs which is responsible for the matter.
the non-attached member, mrs lucia vuolo, joined the ppe group on 10 september this year.
the ppe, ide and ecr groups have informed me of certain decisions to amend the appointments to committees and delegations. these decisions will be entered in the minutes of today's sitting and will come into force on the date of this announcement.
i have received from the council its position at first reading on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing an ipa iii preaccession assistance instrument, the reasons which led the council to adopt it and the commission's positions and opinions. the full title will be listed in the minutes of this sitting. the three-month period for parliament to give its opinion begins tomorrow, 14 september. the recommendation for the second reading will be included on the agenda for this part-session, subject to its adoption by the afet committee.
the itre and econ committees decided to open interinstitutional negotiations in accordance with article 71 of the regulation. the reports, which constitute the mandates for these negotiations, are available on the plenary website and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. a number of members or one or more political groups equal to at least the average threshold may request in writing, by midnight tomorrow, tuesday 14 september, that decisions on the opening of negotiations be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in the house is received within the said time limit, the committees may enter into negotiations.
i would like to inform the house that at the conference of presidents on 9 september i decided, together with the chairmen of the political groups, that a special session will be held on 27 january 2022 to pay tribute to the memory of the victims of the holocaust. this round will be organized as every year on the occasion of the international day of remembrance of the victims of the shoah. the revised provisional calendar for 2022 will be made available on the plenary webpage.
i would inform the house that, following the break in the sitting on 8 july, i signed with the president of the council five acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of parliament's rules of procedure. i would like to inform the house that on wednesday i will be signing together with the president of the council an act adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. the titles of these documents will be published in the minutes of this sitting. ♪ i'm not a girl ♪
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to mention at the opening of this sitting what is happening in my region, andalusia: a really exceptional and large fire in sierra bermeja, in malaga. unfortunately, one firefighter has already died, and two are also very seriously injured. more than 1,600 people have been displaced from their homes and nearly 8,000 hectares burned. i would like to end, mr president, by expressing our appreciation, our greetings and our sympathy to the family of the firefighter, to all the families who are suffering from this serious fire in malaga, in the sierra bermeja, to all the technical resources that are fighting for it and, of course, to the municipalities, the junta de andalucía and the government of spain.
thank you, mr. aguilera. i'm not going to lie. of course we are all very close to the victim, but also to all the people who have suffered disasters because of this devastating fire.
let us now get down to business. the final draft agenda, drawn up by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 157 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 9 september. the following requests for amendments were made. monday i should like to inform you that i have received a request for the application of the urgency procedure under article 163 of the regulation on the following legislative document on the extension of the validity of safety certificates and licences of railway undertakings operating in the channel tunnel. this request will be voted on today. the rules of procedure provide that the petitioner and an opposing speaker may be heard, as may the chairman or a rapporteur of the committee responsible. if there is anyone in the house who wishes to comment on this request for urgent procedure, he is at liberty to do so. both for and against. but i see there are no demands. tuesdaythen, following the consultations with the political groups, i would like to put to the house another proposal for amendment to the final draft agenda. it concerns the day and timetable on tuesday for statements by the vice-president of the commission/high representative for foreign affairs on the following subjects: situation in afghanistan and situation in lebanon. the terms are as follows: the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals for the amendment of the draft resolution. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the vote will take place at 7 p.m. on wednesday, 15 september. i should like to inform you that the votes have been distributed in several voting rounds, taking account of the number of amendments tabled and the number of requests for votes for separate and distinct parts. but as you know, this distribution can be subject to change. information on the distribution of votes will be available on the european parliament's website under the heading 'priority information and documents'. the agenda is therefore approved. the agenda is so fixed. i should like to inform the house that i have received two motions for resolutions and i shall now give the floor to the two members who have asked to speak: mr joachim kuhs has the floor, please.
the debate on the vaccine certificate is an open debate and will be taken up this afternoon by the bureau of parliament, which is the body responsible for this debate. so we shall see what the discussion is going to be and what the measures that will be required are.
as i said before, these are discussions that are open, there's been no decision at the moment. it is right to discuss this, but i would also ask the honourable member to know the powers of our parliamentary bodies, because behind closed doors the conference of presidents does not discuss this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is very important, because to speak of the conference of presidents and to confuse it with the bureau of parliament, that is to say the conference of vice-presidents, is a mistake, and personally a bit unacceptable. the debate will take place there and of course all members and all political groups will be interested in contributing. if i have to announce something, i will do so in accordance with the powers of our bodies as the heads of parliament. thank you.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the report by joanna kopcińska, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 851/2004 establishing a european centre for disease prevention and control (com ((2020) 0726 - c9-0366/2020 - 2020/0320 ((cod)) (a9-0253/2021), and the report by véronique trillet-lenoir, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on serious cross-border threats to health and repealing decision no 1082/2013/eu (com (2020) 0727 - c36/09/07/2020) (a9-02222 (cod)).
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i must inform you again, although you already know this, that as long as we are going to use a hybrid approach, there can be no spontaneous exchange of views and no blue cards will be accepted in any of the debates at this sitting. as in the past, there will also be contacts from the parliament's liaison offices in the member states. the next item is the joint debate on health and disease prevention. the issue that affects us all in every region, in every community, in every member state and worldwide. i should like to begin with the rapporteur, mrs de la pisa carrión. it's being connected from madrid.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected. she can't be present because of her mother's passing. from here i send you a big hug and all my support in these difficult times. it has been exactly 25 weeks since we started working in parliament on the revised mandate of the european centre for disease prevention and control. it has been a time of a lot of work, with many ideas to improve the commission's proposal. these ideas have been discussed very frankly at the meetings and, despite the differences between the political groups, we have managed to find a solid common approach. the covid pandemic has clearly demonstrated that our readiness to manage emerging health threats needs to be more structured and provide precise actions for future health crises at union level. the work on the ecdc's extended mandate has therefore become a central concern. mrs kopcińska, rapporteur for this report, would like to thank commissioner stella kyriakides for the draft proposal which has been put forward in the framework of the health union package. mrs kopcińska is a strong supporter of this proposal and believes that parliament's position is a constructive complement to this text which adds important proposals. to quote benjamin franklin, the best doctors give the least number of medicines. guided by this principle, joanna kopcińska, also a medical doctor by training, has therefore tried to find suitable solutions and to achieve synergies between the ecdc, the commission and the countries, while ensuring that the resources are in line with our real capacities. as regards priorities, parliament has focused on several key elements: strengthening the centre's preparedness, improving data reporting and ensuring reliable epidemiological risk assessment. as regards enhanced preparedness, we believe that preparedness plans and recommendations for health crises and pandemics in the eu should respect the competences and responsibilities laid down in the eu treaties and be based on indicators developed in cooperation with the member states. that is why we emphasize responsibility and competence in the report, because it is really the member states who will ultimately have to implement these recommendations of the centre. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services by rail, road and inland waterway. only by intensifying analysis and mobilisation by collecting and processing more data from the member states can we really improve safety. in the context of the risk assessment work, the european ombudsman's decision in the strategic inquiry oi/3/2020 on the work of the centre was also very important. one of the key problems identified in the decision was the underestimation of the capacity of member states to prevent and control disease outbreaks. we have therefore acted on the ombudsman's work and sought to increase transparency and accountability, as well as to equip the centre with the tools it needs to fulfil its mandate to prevent and control future pandemics. when talking about the actual support to the centre's activities, it is essential to refer to the member states' national preparedness plans, as the centre's recommendations will be used to adopt broader plans at the level of all states, aligned with a comprehensive and transparent budgetary reporting and control framework. as regards the implementation of the mandate to cover non-communicable diseases - a hot topic during committee work - we agree that the centre could become a one-stop shop for health information at eu level and for the exchange of data between member states. this would allow for a level playing field across the union through increased technical support, capacity building, knowledge sharing and coordinated activities. however, this task goes far beyond the centre's current activities, and we must approach this new responsibility with caution so as not to hamper the work of controlling communicable diseases, which must remain the core activity of the agency. in conclusion, the rapporteur, joanna kopcińska, wishes to reiterate, when discussing the increased readiness of the eu, especially in the context of the european health union, that we must be practical and manage expectations when it comes to the european centre for disease prevention and control. as mentioned above, we must think carefully about incorporating the new tasks in the context of its limited financial and organisational capacity. we must also strive to achieve synergies between the centre, the commission and the member states in order to achieve the best possible results. as a final remark, there is a clear overlap between this proposal and mrs trillet-lenoir's work on serious crossborder threats to health. in the new structure proposed by the commission, this regulation is the backbone of the health union, while the ecdc regulation acts as its executive. this should be taken into account as the work on these dossiers progresses under the slovenian presidency. the rapporteur would once again like to thank her colleagues and the other political groups for their fruitful cooperation and mutual trust and looks forward to further cooperation during the forthcoming interinstitutional negotiations.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i want to express my condolences to mep kopcińska for the loss of her mother, and i want to take this opportunity to thank both the rapporteurs for an excellent cooperation. the covid—19 pandemic has now been part of our lives – and is still part of our lives – for the last 18 months, and we are continuing to fight what all of us call an unprecedented health threat. throughout these 18—19 months, we have learnt, and are learning, a great deal. perhaps what we have learned – and this is one of the clearest messages that i also heard véronique say – is that the european union works and does better when we are stronger together, when there is collaboration. we’ve learnt a great deal and we now have a european vaccine strategy that has resulted in about 72 percent of the adult population of the eu being fully vaccinated. we now know that all the approved vaccines protect against the covid variants that we have so far, they save lives and they protect against serious disease. but perhaps the clearest message that we have received, and that we are all looking at and discussing here today, is that the european union needs to be better prepared for future health emergencies and to deliver a post-covid recovery that makes europe healthier, more inclusive, more resilient and more sustainable. we need to take bold action across the board, and this action includes building a strong european health union. to do that, we have three key proposals: the proposal to strengthen the european medicines agency, which we discussed early in july, along with the two proposals i want to discuss with you now. one seeks to reinforce the mandate of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) and the other proposes a regulation on serious cross-border threats to health. these proposals will be complemented by the european health emergency preparedness and response authority (hera), which will be presented this week. this adds to the importance and the urgency of a swift political agreement on these files. the current pandemic has shown us that we need a stronger ecdc as it has to deal with the lack of access to crucial data and limited capacities to respond to this large—scale outbreak. the progress on the ecdc proposal in parliament is taking us in the right direction, and i really want to thank you for your active engagement. your amendments retain the level of ambition of the original proposal and do not mark significant departure from its policy objectives, a level of ambition that i have often stood here and said i totally share. however, we believe that some of the amendments need to be – or should be – reconsidered, especially as regards extending the ecdc’s mandate to cover non-communicable diseases, and this is for two reasons. firstly, this might lead to duplication with work carried out in member states and increase the burden on their already limited resources. secondly, it would substantially stretch resources within the agency, therefore weakening its focus rather than strengthening it. i would, however, say here that, looking at your amendments, i will look into your proposal for audits every two years and also look into the possibility of the yearly reporting of member states. the pandemic has shown us that collaboration is vital. in response, the new regulation on cross-border health threats would give the eu a more comprehensive set of tools and enable it to better support member states in facing such threats. it would introduce an audit process for preparedness and response planning to address existing shortcomings. the proposal gives a stronger legislation that we need to act together, rather than in national silos. to respond to emergencies as a team, we need to work as a team to prepare for them, and that is the purpose of the eu preparedness plan. the health security committee (hsc) has played an enormous role in this pandemic, and a stronger committee would support a common eu response and improve our risk communication. lastly, the new advisory committee is another crucial component, offering independent advice to make for evidence-based agile responses to health threats. i am very pleased that the parliament’s amendments preserve the eu health security framework that has been envisioned, and this brings us a step closer to a healthier future for our citizens. i have often referred to the european health union package as ambitious with good reason. i believe in this. i believe that all of us who have been working together throughout these last 18 months know how important this is, and we know that this pandemic has given us an opportunity. this is an opportunity that we can make things different and better for european citizens in the area of health. the proposals of the ecdc and cross-border health threats are central to realising our ambition and emerging from this pandemic stronger, emerging wiser, emerging more resilient and emerging better prepared. so i welcome all the work on these proposals, i thank you for your efforts to reach agreement on them, and i am confident that in the fruitful autumn trilogues, we can have an agreement before the end of the year. with your support and all of us working together, we can translate these two proposals into concrete and long—lasting protection for our citizens against health crises.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, colleagues, when the first wave of corona hit our continent, my grandmother, who was 99 years old at the time, was being cared for in a care home in the southern part of the netherlands, just a few kilometres away from the german border. when an outbreak appeared just across that border in germany, of course germany was on high alert. the netherlands, however, took no measures for the moment, as we were at that time supposedly covid-free – as if a virus stops at the border. dear colleagues, it is exactly to break through this national bias that we are here today. next time we face a pandemic or any other cross-border health threat, the reflex should not be purely national thinking, but it should be european cooperation. as directly elected representatives, our first responsibility here in this house lies with the citizens. first of all, with those citizens who are vulnerable and who need to be protected against these cross-border health threats. therefore, the report proposes that national preparedness plans should always also include a component of cross-border cooperation. secondly, we have a responsibility towards our freedoms – the freedom of movement, as previous speakers said. although north rhine-westphalia kept the border with the netherlands open, the one with belgium was closed for months. yes, i say to our colleagues in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco committee) that, of course, that has huge economic consequences, but also at a human level. let me give you one example: a father living in belgium who could not see his children. a divorced couple, in this case, who were living just across the border – four kilometres away – in the netherlands. this is what we need to prevent. what i also support in this report, and i am concluding, mr president, is the fact that europe can now declare its own health emergency, therefore being able to act more quickly. but with this increased capability also comes increased responsibilities, and i say this already with a little wink towards the council, with whom we still need to negotiate: neither this parliament, nor its citizens, will in a future pandemic accept a purely national approach.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, healthy citizens are the greatest asset any country can have, said churchill. but how about the european union? do we have a european health for all our citizens? seventy-four per cent of europeans want the eu to have more competences to deal with crises such as the covid-19 pandemic. the crisis needs to be turned into an opportunity to build a strong european union for health. you heard ms véronique trillet-lenoir saying it. in the wake of the pandemic, we saw more clearly the limits of the european centre for disease prevention and control. the agency was created to mirror the us cdc but lacks its powers and funding. the european cdc has an inconsistent access to data and is critically unmanned. it is named like the us cdc, tries to act like it, but lacks almost everything to do so. we have to make sure that the ecdc is not an empty shell, but a strategic instrument the eu has in dealing with future health crises. could it happen again, that a pandemic or another health threat brings us to our knees? i think the answer is 100% yes. would we be forgiven a second time for not being prepared? i think the answer is: impossible. i think here in the ep we have made great progress with the competences allotted to this agency. first, one critical issue is the quality and quantity of the information that the agency can access, so we want to grant specific powers to ensure that the quality of data the ecdc receives is good. second, it is important that the ecdc has the ability to arrange inspections in the member states. inspections are not about poking our noses in. inspection means first-hand help and means testing in peace what will be essential in war. thirdly, the new variants prove to be challenging in the race to beat covid-19 so it’s key for the centre to provide technical and scientific assistance and to help in the detection and sequencing capacities. my country surely needs it. time cannot be lost when faced with a public health threat or pandemic. you only get to be the firefighter once.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner nicolas schmit, colleagues, i would like to start by congratulating our colleague from the renew europe group, sylvie brunet, on her excellent work on this own-initiative report. he has managed to strike a fine balance between two sides of a thorny debate and i strongly believe that this text should serve as an example for the future. it should certainly serve the european commission for the legislative proposal it is working on. the key word here is balance. balance between the solid social rights that europeans have fought for for decades, and the spirit of innovation and entrepreneurship in technology, which i hope we will not have to fight for another decade to maintain and develop. the truth for platforms is that the vague legislative space has started to be increasingly problematic. some general principles that ensure protection for both parties to the employment or collaboration relationship are vital to avoid errors, abuses and attacks against digital platforms. the balance between platform types must also be maintained and the requirements for companies must be adapted to their size. of course, it is good to have general principles of protection and representation for workers who work with them, but also room for subsidiarity for the member states. the key elements are certainly transparency and access to operational decisions, to the framework in which collaboration with digital platforms is offered and managed by them. with the clear aim, and we must say this very clearly and emphatically, of protecting workers and their rights. but just as important are legal predictability for entrepreneurs and investors and the freedom to innovate. the flexibility of platforms is what makes them attractive to workers, but also to users, and they should not be artificially restricted or feared. let's not forget that digital platforms have been vital during the pandemic. they have kept alive tens of thousands of european restaurants, service providers, provided jobs and income, and it is their flexibility that has been the key factor in the resilience of the sector. we therefore expect the commission to come up with a proposal that takes account of these elements and is designed for the future and for the citizens, and not motivated by fears of the past. congratulations to silvia brunet, who is a very talented artist.
madam president, commissioner, i congratulate the rapporteur on responding to an emergency with this document and i think it is essential that we and the commission take a very responsible approach to this matter, because this is an area that urgently needs regulation. technological advances have allowed the digital economy to develop at a rapid pace. but there are a lot of vulnerabilities that we all see. that is why i believe it is essential that the european commission, as soon as possible, should come forward with a legislative initiative to provide real guarantees to those who are active in this area. these people are in gainful employment and need very clear regulations to protect them. but it's not just those who deploy and develop online platforms that need these legal regulations. it is vital that the final consumer is also protected by the regulations that member states expect from the european union. i think it's absolutely essential that we understand that technological advancement has brought us new challenges, and we have to keep up with these expectations that society has of us.
'carbon must have its price, because nature can no longer pay the price,' said ursula von der leyen. a correct statement, but incomplete. the big question is how much of the carbon price can be borne by the vulnerable classes of citizens. under the fit for 55 package, by reforming the emission allowance system and implementing new measures in the buildings and transport sectors, citizens are the main payers. we will see price increases that will lead to deepening energy poverty, unprecedented rural-urban gaps, increased vulnerability of the poorest population. my belief is that without fair subsidies, directed at vulnerable citizens and smes, we will only impoverish and antagonize a large part of the people, and the green deal, to succeed, needs widespread acceptance and support from the population. for this reason, i ask the commission to carry out a specific impact assessment of this fund, estimating how and by how much prices will rise, how far this social fund will be able to mitigate the effects of energy poverty that are foreseen, and the granting of aid-grants to really support vulnerable consumers.
in writing. today's commission presentation on fit for 55 predicts an over-acceleration of the ecological transition, which will create negative impacts on businesses and workers in many sectors. unfortunately, in my opinion, there were several gaps in the presentation. we are seeing the excessive increase in the cost of energy bills these days and there has been a crisis in the price of raw materials and the supply of semiconductors for some time. on these points the commission is not aware of the negative economic impact of its environmental policies, such as the increase in the price of emission allowances, and is wasting time without proposing adequate solutions, to the detriment of european businesses and citizens. moreover, if we look at the data on co2 emissions in europe over the last few years, we can see how little our continent actually does to affect global pollution. the commission should focus on encouraging the recovery of european companies affected by the pandemic, rather than setting green targets that are impractical. the plan presented today will lead to a costly ecological transition that only the richest can afford and that will fall on the shoulders of many european businesses and citizens. so while we still have time, let us try to be more realistic and focus our time and resources on less ideological projects that are more useful for recovery and growth.
the sixth assessment cycle report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, published in august, made it even more urgent to take effective action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, or else the point of no return in terms of planetary sustainability will be reached. it is in this context, and in the run-up to the united nations climate change conference (cop26) to be held in glasgow in october and november this year, that an institutional reinforcement of commitment to european targets is essential, through the implementation of the 'fit for 55' package, which aims at a 55% reduction in emissions by 2030. we need a disruptive paradigm shift. a change in which the speed of transition cannot be separated from its justice, energy poverty cannot continue to reach intolerable levels and the poorest in the world or in europe cannot pay the price. the climate emergency and the deepening inequalities are two systemic problems that can only be solved simultaneously. these are major existential, social and political challenges in which the eu can only be exemplary.
the joint debate on natural disasters in europe, as determined by the oral question to the commission on natural disasters in summer 2021 (o-000059/2021 - b9-0035/2021) (2021/2867 ((rsp)) and the commission statement on the impacts of natural disasters in europe due to climate change (2021/2876 ((rsp)) is continued. i would like to take this opportunity to welcome commissioner elisa ferreira on behalf of all of us.
author. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this summer has been a deadly and catastrophic one. hundreds of people were killed and regions devastated in the floods and fires that ravaged europe. and our thoughts this morning are with the victims of these disasters, with the families who have suffered, but also with the regional and local authorities who have provided aid and who have since then continued to heal the wounds. we stand in full solidarity with you. it has spoken and it must continue to speak and i thank all the political groups and the president of the european parliament for putting this debate on our agenda this morning. in july, floods and mudslides first hit germany, belgium, the netherlands, france, luxembourg, italy, austria and romania, killing more than 300 people and causing billions in damage. we all remember those absolutely unthinkable images of the earth literally collapsing in the heart of a german village in the rhein-erft region near cologne. then came the unprecedented floods, followed by heat waves and forest fires that ravaged large areas of southern greece, italy, and france. the shock is immense and we are discovering our own fragility, that of the european regions, in the face of climate disasters. the poor countries of the world are no longer the only ones vulnerable to the consequences of the unbridled nature. because here, as elsewhere, we are not really prepared to deal with the increasingly devastating impacts of ongoing climate change. as we stressed in our last report on the eusf, we must now consider that these once exceptional disasters are becoming a permanent reality with climate change, as the recent ipcc report reminds us, and we must draw the full consequences of this in all european policies. in an emergency, it is essential that the union uses all its instruments of solidarity to help the recovery of the affected regions and localities. but the eusf's 2021 budget has already been, it seems, well spent. and that, madam commissioner, is very worrying. in this context, how does the commission intend to provide the budgetary resources as quickly as possible? because everywhere, help is expected. and how does the commission intend to ensure that there is also sufficient funding for future disasters? but beyond the emergencies, there is also the central issue, in my view, of adaptation to climate change. this is a real challenge for the whole of cohesion policy, because climate change will lead to a destabilisation of regional development, with consequences in all sectors of development. we had a very interesting debate this morning on the climate package. but i note that all the measures that are being considered are aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions, while we are missing the challenge of adapting to climate change. that is why i am calling, together with my colleagues, for the creation of a regional climate change adaptation fund to undertake the necessary work on infrastructure to make it sustainable and to limit the consequences of disasters. and as commissioner timmermans has just said, the billions of investment required for this will always be less than the cost of inaction on climate change. we are already seeing this with the cost of rebuilding in the devastated cities and regions. we also need, madam commissioner, a very precise idea of the consequences of the impacts region by region and a real map, so that we can make the right choices for investment and development strategies. in conclusion, i think you will all agree with me that it is always better to build well than to repair.
member of the commission. – mr president, mr younous omarjee - the very active chair of the committee on regional development (regi committee) -, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, during the last week we discussed this topic in several parliamentary committees, but it is most appropriate to do it also in the plenary as the frequency of disasters is increasing and we all have to address this issue. climate change brings more extreme weather events, heatwaves, floods and forest fires. it seems that every year breaks a new record. the events are bigger, they come more often and they have greater and more disastrous impacts on the people of europe. first, let me just express our thoughts to the people that were recently hit by these events and in particular for those that lost their loved ones and lost their livelihoods. it’s floods, it’s forest fires, it’s a complete list of terrible disasters. but of course, our sympathy is not enough. there must be a european response. and as europeans, one of our key values is active and practical solidarity. in a crisis we stand together. let me outline very briefly how europe helped in the first hours and days of the disasters. belgium, for instance, requested help through the european union civil protection mechanism and within a few hours, seven member states had offered their assistance. in particular, france, italy and austria deployed more than 150 rescue workers, more than 30 rescue boats and two helicopters through the european union civil protection mechanism. for forest fires, greece, italy and cyprus also requested support via the civil protection mechanism, and greece alone received help from 11 other member states. nine aerial first fighting assets, 250 vehicles and 1100 firefighters as first responders. in both floods and fires the first responders received vital intelligence from, and here in part the reason i said to your question, copernicus emergency management service. it is an instrument that produces satellite maps in real time to support the damage assessment and to guide the emergency response. mapping, for instance, 460 000 hectares burned by fires. this was what we can call the immediate response. so where are we now? we in the commission stand ready to mobilise the european union solidarity fund. cyprus has already submitted an application and we are aware that other member states plan to do the same. however, over the last two years, the number and scale of disasters means there have been many calls on this solidarity fund, including for earthquakes and for covid. this has put a severe strain on resources. we in the commission, parliament and council must consider all possible options within our instruments to allow the solidarity fund to continue to deliver european support to those affected by natural disasters. it is also clear that we must invest in long-term prevention and already in the 2014 cohesion programmes, 17 member states invested in flood prevention. nine invested in coastal protection. six in preventing forest fires. and there were various other instruments and investments to tackle earthquakes, landslides and drought. we must do even more in the programmes currently under preparation to keep people safe. climate change induced risks must be taken very, very seriously. you cannot reply afterwards, so ex-post is not the solution and adaptation becomes not an option. adaptation and prevention are a necessity. this means preventive infrastructures such as dikes, flood walls, stormwater collectors and water basins. this means greener land management, managing flood plains and fire risk more naturally, for example, by reducing soil sealing and the concretisation of flood plains. it also means investing in crisis management, including of course, rescue vehicles, fire engines, helicopters. it also means more territorial cohesion, as most of the time, the negative impact of these disasters is exacerbated by social and spatial inequalities. i count on your support to ensure that cohesion programmes in your country, as well as other european union programmes, including, and i underline, the recovery and resilience facility, include appropriate measures for mitigating the risk of natural disasters. these are my three points: first, the immediate response under the civil protection mechanism; second, the need for adequate resources for the eu solidarity fund and; third, the need to put preparation and mitigation and adaptation measures into the european union programmes, including the new cohesion programmes and the recovery and resilience facility. so now i look forward to our discussion. thank you once again.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the people of eupen in belgium, pepinster, trooz, the german town of erftstadt, schuld or bad neuenahr, or even the dutch town of venlo, to name just a few, will not be able to forget 14 and 15 july. the flood came overnight and swept everything away. it was devastating. people have died, families have lost part of everything - without warning, without pity. people who have lost everything through no fault of their own need help, quick and flexible help - also from the european union. the activation of the eu's civil protection mechanism was already very positive: within hours, ambulances and helicopters from france, italy, and austria arrived to help. but we also need the strength of the whole european union to repair the damage and rebuild. the solidarity fund was set up in 2002 for this very purpose. if the damage is so great that a region or a country cannot rebuild on its own, other countries should help. a simple and very true principle. the damage in wallonia alone is estimated at up to 3 billion euros. the member states' requests are not yet available. the damage is still being calculated to get a better idea. mrs von der leyen, when she visited pepinster on 17 july, said that european funds were available and that it was important to use them very quickly. we have tabled this oral question for today's plenary session in order to find out first of all whether the regions concerned can count on money from this solidarity fund - this also in the light of the fact that this fund has also been used this year to fight the consequences of the covid-19 pandemic. secondly, commissioner, i would like to know how quickly aid can be disbursed to the regions. and thirdly, i would like to know whether you also think that, in view of the significant increase in natural disasters, these funds are still a suitable instrument or whether we need to develop them further. the solidarity between people in the immediate aftermath of the disaster was enormous, it was exemplary. it was tangible. we should not forget these people here and now. we shouldn't abandon these people.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by sending a thought to all of you who have been affected by the summer's severe forest fires, heat waves and floods, to all the hundreds who have lost their lives - i am thinking of your loved ones. i also think of all of you who have lost your homes, your forests, or perhaps a beloved pet. as far as sweden, global warming has shown its power this year, with particularly heavy flooding. as the atmosphere warms, the water cycle intensifies, producing drought where it is already dry and more rain where it is already wet. and as the north pole warms and melts, it also slows down the gulf stream. it also slows down the low pressure the rain clouds stay longer and produce rain for longer. there is no doubt that these extreme weather events would have been very unlikely if it had not been for global warming. that is what the ipcc states in its much-publicized summer climate report, namely, that man's burning of fossil fuels is causing these extreme weather events to occur now almost every year - what once might have happened every hundred years. although it became clear that the climate crisis is also hitting us here and now, it is those living in the poorer countries and the poorer parts of the world who will be hit the hardest and are already doing so. if even we in the eu, in countries like germany, belgium and sweden, cannot protect ourselves against these extreme weather events, how can the world's poorer countries stand up to anything? it is time to live up to our international commitments and secure the paris agreement's agreed climate adaptation funding. but we must also take the bull by the horns and accelerate the pace of the just, green transition.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, the summer of 2021 has taught us all an important lesson: no country in europe is immune to natural disasters; whether it is a fire, a flood, we cannot let such events become a normal for us. this inaction will cost us lives. it costs us time, it costs us recovery, it costs us rebuilding, and most importantly, it costs us the future of our children, and i'll give you an example: my daughter is a year and a half old. for her, 2050 is not an abstraction, nor 2100 is an abstraction, it is as real as this year and this future. this year, in romania, where i come from, we had, for the first time, several weather events, romania was hit by a cyclone from both the east and the west. desertification continues to spread in the south of the country, and sandstorms are getting closer and closer to bucharest. there are acres that have burned from the vegetation fires. in the event of a tragedy similar to that in greece, romania would have nothing to rely on, because it has no tanker planes and no amphibious planes. we must therefore all be better prepared for such situations, not least because solidarity is needed. so let's choose sides better: we're for nature or against nature, we're for our children or against them. thank you very much.
madam president, mr high representative, the disaster in afghanistan will certainly force us to reflect on europe's role in the world, with the united states no longer playing the role it has played for the last century, as we well know. but now we're in a hurry. and the urgency is basically three things: the first is to help the collaborators from the european countries on the ground. to do this we will probably have to have technical contacts with the taliban, although that obviously must not mean recognition. the second is to take responsibility for the afghan exodus. and that means humanitarian visas. that means resettlement channels. and why not also activate the directive on temporary protection, which could be done with a proposal from the commission and approval in the council, not even unanimously, but by a qualified majority. it is a directive that we have not used in 20 years, since it was adopted in 2001. if not now, with the afghan exodus about to take place, when? thirdly, the development of humanitarian aid through international organizations on the ground. because the big risk now is the collapse of the afghan state, of its health, of its administration, and that's what they're going to suffer, in addition to the persecution by the taliban, of its citizens.
madam president, among other lessons, the sad and unexpected events in afghanistan make clear the need for the european union to move forward in its foreign policy and particularly in its defence policy. we need more capacity for autonomous action. in light of the latest events and statements, it is clear that the united states will limit its foreign military action. the context has changed: there is a retreat of the united states. we are in a globalised, multipolar and also very conflicted world. the european union will need to project power abroad, even in cases where the united states is unwilling or unable to do so. we must be aware of the many conflicts that exist or are potentially to arise, for example, in our own neighbourhood, both east and south. we can't always rely on our allies. the sad events in afghanistan must be a turning point that unlocks the necessary progress in the field of foreign and defence policy. but for this to happen, it is essential not only for the european institutions to act, but also for all the member states - and i say 'all' - to be aware that these advances are essential.
i have to say, madam president, the situation in afghanistan is dramatic. we gave people hope for a democratic afghanistan. and now many fear for their lives. and with that comes a special responsibility. but the council only gives one 'best of' of the policy of containment: preventing illegal migration, not creating incentives, deportation to transit countries. and it doesn't help that they're acknowledging that they're bound by the right to asylum or that voluntary resettlement might be a measure. the member states must now take responsibility. and in addition to humanitarian aid in afghanistan in evacuations and cooperation with neighbouring countries, they must also make it possible to receive and integrate in europe, to create safe routes, to use resettlement. our society is quite prepared to take in people seeking protection. there are concrete offers for this, and we should take advantage of them.
madam president, dear colleagues, i will not dwell on how big of a disaster we left behind, but it will be even bigger if we learned nothing from it. we said it will be geopolitical, so let’s be geopolitical on the short, medium and long—term. first, we must aim to secure some form of presence and leverage on the ground, and we have little choice but to work within the un security council for that. just as we need the unhcr and the wfp to bring help to refugees in the impoverished afghan communities. we need to reinvest politically in the un system and the upcoming unga is a good place to start. secondly, we need to be ready for the migration situation that will reach europe soon. we cannot afford the spectacle of 2015. we need to act united and coherent, and we must start preparing now. and then we need to get serious about our defence policy and to reform our foreign policy decision-making and the strategic foresight capabilities underlying it. the world is in turmoil. every crisis is an opportunity for us to own up to our role in global affairs. but without credible defence capacities and an efficient decision-making process, we can stay here and debate all day about geopolitics or sovereignty or autonomy. so let’s walk.
madam president, mr. high representative, many are looking for blame for the failure of western countries in afghanistan. we all have to take responsibility for this failure. one important thing to understand, to learn for the future, is that democracy and western values are not easily exported anywhere in the world. afghanistan belongs to islam and islamic culture is not a culture of democracy. the arab spring showed us the same thing. the priorities of the moment are to ensure that humanitarian aid is distributed as well as possible to the people who need it. the union's efforts must be coordinated with the un, nato and the us and must be directed towards supporting stability and good governance in order to be able to respond to humanitarian and security challenges.
mr. president, i agree with the need for cooperation with russia, as highlighted in the report. but before we get to cooperation, we have to realize that russia has forcibly occupied the territories of three associated states of the european union. russia is conducting virulent disinformation campaigns in all eastern partnership states, as well as in eu member states. from russia, cyberattacks against targets in eu and nato member states are frequently launched. by concentrating military resources in crimea and kaliningrad, russia is a direct and explicit threat to the security of the union. the commission also found that the russian exporting producers were not able to obtain sufficient market share to cover their costs of production. our strategy to reduce our energy dependence on russia is a worthless piece of paper as long as north stream becomes a reality. the result of our dependence on russian gas imports is that russia does what it wants on the union's eastern border and so what are the pillars of our united foreign policy towards russia? i don't know.
madam president, first, while recognising the importance of dialogue with china, the eu has every interest in an open and rules-based indo-pacific region. i am looking forward to seeing the joint communication on the eu strategy for cooperation in this region, because i do hope that this timely initiative will allow us to boost cooperation with other like-minded democracies. speaking of this, i would like to underline the necessity of focusing our attention on important regional partners willing to work with us, such as taiwan. i do believe that taiwan, being a like-minded partner to the eu, can contribute its experience and expertise in many areas, including on matters relating to trade, technology, critical supplies, or the fight against disinformation, and therefore can be an excellent partner for us. this is also the moment to urge the commission and the council to further demonstrate solidarity with lithuania over its sovereign decision to conduct cultural, economic and diplomatic relations with taiwan, and to condemn china’s economic sanctions on lithuania over this issue.
president. - mr hilde, first of all i should like to congratulate you on this report. she has managed to articulate a clear position with a majority in the chamber. that's great. that's great. at the same time, we must also admit that we may be a little late with this clear position. for too long, we've just been very, very naive. we thought for a long time that china would democratize and play by the rules. nothing could be further from the truth. that is why, commissioner, i want to emphasize today our own initiatives and everything we do on trade protection, foreign investment and foreign subsidies. we have to tackle unfair practices very hard and at the same time link up with human rights, the uyghurs and forced labour. i am sorry, commissioner, that the initiative on due diligence is taking too long. we have to start now. finally, it is also time to send a clear signal to taiwan that we are behind them and that we want to start negotiations on the investment agreement.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, thank you for the very good debate. i think the debate today is testament to your continued interest and engagement in the content and strategic direction of our eu-china policy. it also conveys a sense of urgency, reflecting an overall downward trend in our relations, but also recognises that we must stand together in our engagement with china at bilateral, regional and multilateral level if we want to bring our points across. let me stress once again the need to maintain a multifaceted approach to china. this means remaining open for dialogue and engagement to pursue the ambitions of global public goods and the sustainable development goals, defending our values and citizens in a spirit of unity and solidarity, stepping up our efforts to continue closing loopholes and beefing up our resilience. i trust in the support of this house for the pursuit of this strategy.
this conversation is over. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. like russia, china is a systemic rival of the union with which our relations have a geostrategic dimension. our strategy towards both countries must be based on firm principles in the interests of our core values and the interests of our prosperity and security, while also providing room for critical dialogue and cooperation. many global challenges which can only be tackled effectively in a multilateral context , as well as bilateral rivalries, do not allow all bridges with these major powers to be burned. we must ensure that we are strong enough ourselves through unity, willingness to free up the necessary budgets, increased investment in self-reliance and cooperation with like-minded partners in strategic areas. in our relations with third countries such as china, economic, technological and other cooperation - including trade and investment agreements - is conditioned by us on the strict standards we want to impose on ourselves and others in relation to democracy and human rights, climate objectives, public health... this is perfectly justified, of course, but it should be a sign of balance and a recognition that the ultimate effect of our policies must not be detrimental to our own prosperity and security.
the agenda includes the report by javier moreno sánchez, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals intending to perform highly specialised work (com ((2016) 0378 - c8-0213/2016 - 2016/0176 ((cod)) (a8-0240/2017).
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, the council, the slovenian presidency, is once again conspicuous by its absence, but in the end... ladies and gentlemen, after three years of deadlock we have reached agreement with the council and the commission to carry out an ambitious review of the blue card, which was adopted in 2009, with the aim of attracting more highly qualified workers, particularly in sectors with a shortage of staff, and to make it easier for employers to recruit non-eu nationals. and this improvement is especially important for our small and mediumsized enterprises. the review would not have been possible without the commitment and effort of all stakeholders, despite the complicated negotiating conditions caused by the health restrictions of the pandemic. i would like to thank in particular the german and portuguese presidencies for their commitment and the efforts of our dear commissioner ylva johansson and her team to defend the reforms. and, of course, to the european parliament's team of alternative rapporteurs and the whole technical team, in particular céline, shane and matteo, for the excellent work they have done to give the reform real added value. the revised blue card rules will further harmonise the conditions of entry and residence for highly qualified workers, introducing more flexible criteria, extending the rights of beneficiaries and simplifying mobility within the european union, as well as family reunification procedures. but above all, this agreement sends a political message in the right direction: europe must increase legal forms of migration and, above all, facilitate the arrival of workers who can contribute to the development of our continent. the new revision establishes more inclusive admission criteria. in particular, we have widened the scope to include beneficiaries of international protection; we have set a minimum and maximum salary range for applicants to obtain a blue card, with the aim of making it more attractive and avoiding the risk of social dumping between nationals and foreigners. this achievement will also attract young graduates. we have also reduced the minimum length of employment contracts from 12 months to six months and we have made it possible for workers in the information and communication technology sector to take account of professional experience and not just academic qualifications. as i mentioned earlier, the revision includes new rights for blue card holders and their family members and measures to facilitate family reunification. in particular, the spouse or partner of the holder is offered unrestricted access to the labour market; blue card holders are allowed to pursue self-employment or other auxiliary occupational activities; and better protection is guaranteed in the event of illness or disability, as well as in the event of unemployment. finally, it facilitates and simplifies mobility within the european union by introducing an accelerated procedure for recognised employers, the 'fast track procedure', reducing the minimum period of residence in the first member state and allowing the accumulation of periods of residence for obtaining long-term resident status. this will help companies, for example, when asking a worker to move to another member state. this mobility element is the real added value of the revised european blue card compared to national schemes and makes it more attractive by allowing skilled workers access to the labour market across the union, but this requires member states to trust each other. only then will we move towards a consolidated european migration policy. but, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to arouse suspicion, we must remember that the member states may maintain their national system in this matter in parallel with the european blue card system. however, it is important to note that the new directive ensures equal treatment between the european and national systems, so that european blue card holders and their families are not disadvantaged compared to holders of national permits. we have also facilitated the process of moving from the national systems to the european system. as i have stressed throughout the negotiations, i again ask the member states and the commission to give visibility to this measure by spreading information about the advantages of the blue card here in europe, but also throughout the world. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the revision of this directive is an important and necessary step, but it is not enough, because i repeat: we need these and those skilled workers, regardless of their origin, otherwise there is no point in this revision. on the other hand, we must put an end to the fragmentation of legislation on legal migration and propose a simplified regulatory framework covering all situations and all workers. we need to encourage legal migration: firstly, because it is the best instrument to combat irregular immigration; secondly, because it is absolutely necessary that we adopt policies which also regulate the admission and residence of workers in medium and low paid jobs, as well as temporary workers and those men and women who come to our continent for research or study purposes. at a time when the management of migration flows, through a genuine common migration policy, remains a priority for this house and on the political agenda, and when we are waiting for an agreement on the migration and asylum pact, it is important that we do everything possible to ensure that people arrive in europe safely by improving the channels of legal immigration. i hope that we will soon conclude new agreements in this respect, in this area.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, yes, to be honest, we were hoping for a more ambitious text of this blue card directive, especially in what concerns social protection of card-holders and their families. nevertheless, the compromise is a compromise, and we have to mention now positive changes in what concerns equal treatment. cardholders have equal treatment with nationals as regards working conditions, education, social security and recognition of diplomas. also, family life is more protected. family members of card-holders have immediate access to the labour market, and residence permits for family members will be issued at the same time as the blue card itself. regarding the scope of the directive, it now fully and immediately applies to refugees and no longer excludes seasonal workers. but unfortunately, asylum seekers still remain outside the scope of the directive. we are also concerned that member states remain permitted to adopt parallel national schemes. however, several safeguard clauses were introduced to ensure equality between the eu and national schemes.
member of the commission. – mr president, i welcome the political agreement on the eu blue card, and i think now it’s time to say congratulations and thanks: congratulations and thanks to the rapporteur, javier moreno sánchez, to the shadows and your teams, and of course also to both the portuguese and german presidencies. this file was blocked for four years, but you unblocked it. you show that europe can unite on migration. you show that europe can find compromises on migration. you show that europe can turn from a blocked situation into a situation with strengthened and better legal pathways to the european union. this is really something to congratulate. that’s why this is a very important agreement for europe. europe needs skilled workers at all levels: low, medium and high. with this agreement, we welcome the highly-skilled workers we need. nearly 60% of businesses in europe say they cannot find people with the right it skills. our societies also need doctors, engineers, chemists and teachers. we are losing the global race for talent. at the moment, highly-educated migrants prefer north america, australia and new zealand to europe. with this agreement on the blue card, we can catch up in this race. the blue card is a residence permit for highly-qualified workers to come to the european union. with a blue card in your pocket, you will have more opportunities in all member states. with this agreement, it will be easier for people to get a blue card thanks to lower entry demands for contract duration and thanks to a more realistic and fair salary threshold. many more people will be able to apply and will want to apply. it will be easier for blue card holders to change jobs between member states and for their families to be able to join them sooner. and blue card holders are better protected with this agreement: if they lose their jobs after two years of work, they may stay in the eu for six months to look for a new job. the blue card, in my view, is much more than an opportunity for a nice job and a good career in europe. it’s a chance for a life here in europe, with all the history and culture and energy our vibrant european cities and regions and our continent have to offer – and that makes the blue card uniquely attractive in the global competition for talent. we won’t win that competition if member states compete among themselves, with national schemes that may offer attractive working conditions but zero labour mobility – as is happening right now, actually. we have brought european added value to the european blue card. the commission’s proposal was to have just one eu blue card and abolish national schemes. this was also strongly advocated by the parliament. but we have had to compromise, and i stay by that compromise. we put in place safeguards that create a level playing field between the blue card and national schemes. this will allow the blue card to reach its full potential. the political agreement we are discussing today also allows refugees to apply for a blue card, and i’m very happy about that. never underestimate the skills, talent, energy and ambition that refugees have to offer. just think of the people now fleeing afghanistan, who we were actually evacuating in the very last weeks from afghanistan: judges, lawyers, journalists, interpreters – very highly-skilled people. i will soon host another high—level resettlement forum to help people in need, especially women, to find a safe journey to a welcome home, not least from afghanistan. this agreement on the blue card tells refugees: ‘you are part of us’. europe doesn’t only need engineers, software programmers and web developers. we also need nurses, cooks, plumbers, truck drivers, welders, bricklayers, electricians, carpenters. this summer, the commission launched the talent partnerships to help people from third countries work, train and study in europe. we are now developing a skills and talent package: a set of proposals under the new pact on migration and asylum. i want to improve the rights and mobility of migrants who already live here by revising the directive on long—term residence. i want to make it easier for employers to attract low- and medium—skilled workers by revising the single permit directive. we will launch an eu talent pool: a platform to match the skills of migrant workers with the needs of eu employers. i welcome the draft report on legal migration by rapporteur abir al-sahlani. i will take the parliament’s views into account when preparing those proposals, and i’m sure that we will be able to progress on these proposals too. because this political agreement on the blue card is another important step forward on the pact, and it shows that we – the commission, the parliament, the council – can move forward on legal migration. let this agreement inspire us to work together in the same spirit of pragmatism, cooperation and compromises on all proposals under the new pact on migration and asylum.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i thank the commissioner for her fine speech. while the blue card directive does not unfortunately apply in my home country of ireland, i’m nevertheless glad to have an opportunity to join the discussion on this proposal and on how we can make the eu a more attractive destination for highly-skilled third-country nationals. in order to reaffirm and implement our commitment to a green and digital future, we are investing in educating children and upskilling adults in these areas to ensure that we have a competitive workforce. attracting third-country nationals who are highly-skilled in ict and other areas, as the commissioner pointed out, in which we currently have a skills gap, will complement our efforts. this proposal marks a positive step forward in making the blue card scheme more attractive for a number of reasons. an important one is that the criteria for admission and the procedures to follow have been clarified and therefore made much more user-friendly. this makes it easier for third—country nationals to learn about the scheme and for eu employers to recruit through it. the eu’s ageing population poses a risk that skill shortages will increase in the future. let’s act now and ensure that the eu retains its top class workforce so that the eu remains competitive as a great location for talented and ambitious people, male and female, to find exciting and rewarding careers in a continent devoid of warfare and perpetual danger, and richer in diversity than any area in the world.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would be happy to support any initiative that emphasises the positive role of migration. the subject is constantly hysterised, whereas it deserves a calm political debate. this is the case with the european blue card, which will facilitate access to work in the european union for highly qualified foreign workers. and if we cannot say that the debate has been settled, let us at least say that it has been long, if i believe the date of the start of the discussions and their conclusion after five years. but this step is welcome in the construction of a european policy that respects individual rights and is open to the challenges of the present in the field of labour migration, as you recalled, madam commissioner. migration, although violently opposed, caricatured and manipulated in some political formations, is an undeniable demographic, economic and human reality. we also have to keep in mind that having more legal channels means breaking the business plan of the smugglers. earlier this year, the european parliament adopted my report which recognises that opening legal pathways for migrant workers helps reduce irregular flows and can help our societies address labour shortages. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to show the same support today for this directive, whose debate was brilliantly concluded by javier moreno sánchez. it's a matter of common sense and humanity. it is also an economic and social issue to protect all workers, european and non-european, who are less well paid and more exposed to the risks of exploitation.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i welcome this agreement reached after a number of years with the collective effort of the european parliament’s negotiating team. thank you so much, javier, and all the colleagues, with the efforts of the portuguese presidency and obviously with the support of the commission. thank you, commissioner, for all of your effort, i know it wasn’t easy. yes, the revised blue card will bring more harmonised, more attractive and less bureaucratic rules, and it will therefore encourage the access of highly skilled third country workers to the eu labour market. but this will also help lower the skills mismatch within the eu and i believe it is essential for us to understand the benefits of the legal labour migration. the new instrument will allow access to highly qualified workers, as well as highly skilled workers with proven work experience of at least three years in the it area and beneficiaries of international protection with an employment contract of only six months. eu blue card holders will no longer be subject to a labour market test if they want to change jobs after one year. even when their family members want to reunite within the union, they will no longer be restricted from accessing a job. and member states will also make sure that blue card holders and their family members do not enjoy a lower level of procedural safeguards and rights than those holders of national residence permits. this is not, however, a perfect piece of legislation. i see it as an important step forward, but my wish is that we are more ambitious for the future, a lot more ambitious for the future. this was also clearly expressed in the position of the european parliament that we defended, and i wish it had been the ambition of the member states as well. let us be clear upon one thing. illegal migration can be, and should be, countered with safe and legal pathways, and the exchange of valuable human resources is a win for both the union and the third countries. i’m confident that we will be able to understand and proceed further with this common understanding of a political, but also labour market-related, social and economic reality. it is for the benefit of us all.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, congratulations to you all for your work. it is a necessary measure, it is a reform that millions of citizens around the world have been waiting for. i do not think it is a left-wing or right-wing measure, it is a necessity because the european union is and has become home to many citizens from outside the european area. but the measure we are taking is a response to an expectation that millions of citizens who are highly qualified and want to come and build a future here have, and we needed this political message to be conveyed to all those who look with confidence and hope to our continent. we needed clarity, we needed bureaucratization, we needed a new, well-established framework that would offer security and credible prospects to those who want to come and build a future here in our home, europe. - thank you.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the president of the commission on the state of the union (2021/2763(rsp)).
president of the european commission. – madam president, honourable members, i think many are the people who feel their lives have been on pause while the world has been on fast-forward, because the speed of the events and the enormity of the challenges are sometimes very difficult to grasp. and this has also been a time of soul-searching. people are re-evaluating their own lives. we are having wider debates on shared vaccines and shared values. but as i look back on this past year, and if i look at the state of the union today, i see a strong soul in everything that we do. it was robert schuman who said: ‘europe needs a soul, an ideal and the political will to serve this ideal’. and europe has brought those words to life in the last twelve months. in the biggest global health crisis for a century, we chose to go it together so that every part of europe had access to the life—saving vaccines. in the deepest global economic crisis for decades, we chose to go it together with next generation eu. and in the gravest planetary crisis of all time, again we chose to go it together with the european green deal. we did it together as a commission, and i thank from the bottom of my heart my outstanding college of commissioners for the enormous support during that time. we did it together as a parliament, with 27 member states, as one europe, and i think we can be proud of it. but corona times are not over. there is still much grief in our society as the pandemic lingers. there are hearts we can never mend, life stories we can never finish and time we can never give back to our young. we face new and enduring challenges in a world recovering and fracturing unevenly. so there is no question, the next year will be another test of character. but i believe that it is when you are tested that your spirit, your soul, truly shines through. and as i look across our union, i know that europe will pass the test. and what gives me that confidence is the inspiration we can draw from europe’s young people. because our youth put meaning into empathy and solidarity. they believe we have a responsibility towards the planet. and while they are anxious about the future, they are determined to make it better. our union will be stronger if it is more like our next generation: reflective, determined and caring. grounded in values and bold in action. and this spirit will be more important than ever over the next twelve months. this is the message in the letter of intent i sent this morning to president sassoli and prime minister janša to outline our priorities for the year ahead. honourable members, a year is long in the time of pandemics. when i stood here in front of you 12 months ago, i did not know when, or even if, we could have a safe and effective vaccine against covid-19. but today, against all critics, europe is among the world leaders. more than 70% of our adult population is fully vaccinated. we were the only ones to share half of our vaccine production with the rest of the world. we delivered more than 700 million doses of vaccines to the europeans. indeed, we delivered also more than another 700 million to the rest of the world, to more than 130 countries. and we are the only region in the world to achieve that. honourable members, a pandemic is a marathon, it’s not a sprint. we followed the science. we delivered to europe. we delivered to the rest of the world. we did it the right way, because we did it the european way. and i think it worked. but while we have every reason to be confident, we have no reason to be complacent. our first and most urgent priority is to speed up global vaccination. with less than 1% of global doses administered in low-income countries, the scale of injustice and the level of urgency is obvious. this is one of the great geopolitical issues in our time. team europe is investing eur 1 billion to ramp up mrna production capacity with africa. we have already committed to share 250 million doses of vaccine. i can announce today that the commission will add a new donation of another 200 million doses until the middle of next year. this is an investment in solidarity and it is an investment also in global health. the second priority is to continue our efforts here in europe. we see worrisome divergences between member states where vaccination rates are concerned. so we need to keep up the momentum. and europe is ready. we have 1.8 billion additional doses secured. this is enough for us and our neighbourhood when booster shots are needed. so let’s do everything possible that this does not turn into a pandemic of the unvaccinated. and my third point, the final priority, is to strengthen our pandemic preparedness. last year, i said it was time to build a european health union. today we are delivering. with our proposal we get the hera authority up and running. this will be a huge asset to deal with future health threats earlier and better. we have the innovation and scientific capacity. we have the private sector knowledge. we have competent national authorities. and now we have to bring all of that together, including massive funding. so i am proposing a new health preparedness and resilience mission for the whole of the european union, and it should be backed up by team europe investment of eur 50 billion by 2027, to make sure that no virus will ever turn a local epidemic in a global pandemic. there is no better return on investment than that. honourable members, the work on the european health union is a big step forward. and i want to thank this house for your support. we have shown that when we act together, we are can act fast. take the eu digital certificate. today, more than 400 million certificates have been generated across europe. forty-two countries in four different continents are plugged in. we proposed it in march. you pushed hard, you helped enormously. three months later – three months later only – it was up and running. so while the rest of the world was talking about it, europe just did it. and we did a lot of things right. we moved fast to create sure. this supported over 31 million workers and 2.5 million companies across europe. we learned the lessons from the past when we were too divided and too delayed. and the difference is stark. last time it took us eight years for the eurozone gdp to get back to pre-crisis levels. this time we expect 19 countries to be at pre-pandemic levels this year, with the rest following next. growth in the euro area outpaced both the us and china in the last quarter. but this is only the beginning. and the lessons from the financial crisis could serve as a cautionary tale. at that time, europe declared victory too soon and we paid the price for that. and we will not repeat that mistake. the good news is that with next generation eu we will both invest in short—term recovery and in the long-term prosperity. we will address structural issues in our economy, from labour market reforms in spain to pension reforms in slovenia, or to tax reform in austria for example. in an unprecedented manner, we will invest in 5g and fibre. but equally important is the investment in digital skills. this is such an important topic. this task needs leaders’ attention and it needs a structured dialogue at top level. we really have to emphasise that and put a strong focus on it. our response provides a clear direction to market and investors alike. but, as we look ahead, we also need to reflect on how the crisis has affected the shape of our economy, from increased debts, to uneven impact on different sectors, or new ways of working. and to do that, the commission will relaunch the discussion on the economic governance review in the coming weeks. the aim is to build a consensus on the way forward well ahead of 2023. honourable members, we will soon celebrate 30 years of the single market. for 30 years it has been the great enabler of progress and prosperity in europe. at the outset of the pandemic, we had to defend it against the pressures of erosion and fragmentation. for our recovery, the single market is the driver of good jobs and competitiveness, and that is particularly important in the digital single market. we have made ambitious proposals in the last year. for example to contain the gatekeeper power of the major platforms; to underpin the democratic responsibilities of those platforms; to foster innovation; to channel the power of artificial intelligence. digital is the make-or-break issue and member states also share that view. for example if you look at the digital spending in next generation eu – and you know we have a 20% target – we will even overshoot that 20% target. that is good. that reflects the importance of investing in our european tech sovereignty. but allow me to focus on semi-conductors for a moment. these tiny chips that make everything work, from smartphones to electric scooters, from trains or entire smart factories. there is no digital without those chips. and while we speak, whole production lines are already working at reduced speed – despite growing demand – because of a shortage of semiconductors. and while global demand has exploded, europe’s share across the entire value chain, from the design or manufacturing capacities, has shrunk. we depend right now on state-of-the-art chips manufactured by asia. so this is not just a matter of our competitiveness. this is also a matter of tech sovereignty. so let’s put all of our forces in it to improve the situation. we will present a new european chips act. we need to link together our world-class research, design and testing capacities. we need to coordinate the european level and national investment along the value chain. and the aim is to jointly create a state-of-the-art european chip ecosystem, including production. that ensures our security of supply and will develop new markets for ground-breaking european tech. and yes, i know this is a daunting task, without any question. it is a big, big goal that i put out there. and i know that there are some now that claim it cannot be done. but they have said the same 20 years ago about galileo, and now look where we are. we got our act together. today europe satellite provide the navigation system for more than 2 billion smartphones worldwide. so we did it once. we are world leaders in galileo now. let’s be bold again and let’s focus all our forces on the semi—conductors, and let’s go and be a world leader again. this should be our aim. mesdames et messieurs les députés, la pandémie a laissé de profondes cicatrices, impactant énormément notre économie sociale de marché. soir après soir, nous étions tous là, à nos fenêtres, devant nos portes, pour applaudir les travailleurs de première ligne. nous avons tous senti combien nous dépendions de ces travailleurs, de celles et ceux qui se dévouent pour un salaire inférieur, moins de protections, moins de sécurité. les applaudissements se sont peut-être estompés, mais la force de nos émotions doit perdurer. et c’est pourquoi la mise en œuvre du socle européen des droits sociaux est si importante. il s’agit d’emplois décents, de conditions de travail justes, de soins de santé meilleurs et d’un bon équilibre de vie. si la pandémie nous a appris une chose, c’est bien la valeur du temps et qu’il n’y a point de temps aussi précieux que le temps consacré à nos proches. c’est ainsi que nous proposerons une nouvelle stratégie européenne de soins afin que chaque homme et chaque femme puisse bénéficier des meilleurs soins possibles et trouver le meilleur équilibre de vie. mais, mesdames et messieurs, l’équité sociale n’est pas seulement une question de temps; c’est également une question d’équité fiscale. dans notre économie sociale de marché, il est bon que les entreprises réalisent des profits. mais si elles réalisent des profits, c’est bien grâce à la qualité de nos infrastructures, de notre sécurité sociale, de nos systèmes éducatifs. alors, c’est la moindre des choses qu’elles paient leur juste contribution. et c’est pourquoi nous continuerons à lutter contre l’évasion et la fraude fiscale. nous proposerons un projet de loi ciblant les profits dissimulés derrière des sociétés-écrans et nous mettrons tout en œuvre pour sceller l’accord mondial historique sur le taux minimal d’impôt sur les sociétés. payer un juste montant d’impôt n’est pas seulement une question de finances publiques, mais surtout une simple question d’équité. mesdames et messieurs les députés, nous avons tous profité des fondements de notre économie européenne, sociale, de marché et nous devons faire en sorte que la prochaine génération puisse construire son avenir. nous sommes en présence d’une jeune génération hautement éduquée, extrêmement talentueuse et fortement motivée, d’une génération qui a tellement sacrifié pour préserver la sécurité des autres. la jeunesse, c’est normalement le moment de la découverte, là où on fait de nouvelles expériences, où on trouve les amis de toute une vie, où on découvre son propre chemin. mais qu’est-ce qu’on a demandé aux jeunes aujourd’hui? de garder les distances sociales, de rester confinés et de faire l’école à la maison, pendant plus d’un an. c’est ainsi que tout ce que nous faisons, du pacte vert à next generation eu, vise à protéger leur avenir. c’est aussi pourquoi next generation eu doit être financée par de nouvelles ressources propres, sur lesquelles nous travaillons. mais nous devons également veiller à ne pas créer de nouvelles failles parce que l’europe a besoin de toute sa jeunesse. nous devons encourager ceux qui tombent entre les mailles du filet. ceux qui n’ont pas d’emploi. ceux qui ne suivent ni enseignement ni formation. pour eux, nous allons offrir un nouveau programme: alma. alma offrira à ces jeunes la possibilité d’une expérience professionnelle temporaire dans un autre état membre, parce qu’ils méritent eux aussi de vivre une expérience comme erasmus pour acquérir des compétences, pour créer des liens et se forger leur propre identité européenne. mais si nous voulons façonner notre union à leur image, les jeunes doivent pouvoir façonner l’avenir de l’europe. une union doit avoir une âme et une vision qui leur parle, comme jacques delors le demandait. et, je cite, «comment fera-t-on l’europe si les jeunes ne voient pas en elle un projet collectif et une représentation de leur propre avenir?». c’est pourquoi nous proposerons de faire de 2022 l’année de la jeunesse européenne. faisons une année consacrée à valoriser les jeunes qui ont tant consacré aux autres. et les jeunes doivent mener les débats de la conférence sur l’avenir de l’europe; c’est leur avenir et ça doit être leur conférence. et comme nous l’avons dit au début du mandat, la commission sera disposée à donner suite aux points qui seront décidés par la conférence. this is a generation with a conscience. they are pushing us to go further and faster to tackle the climate crisis. and the events of the summer only served to explain why. we saw floods in belgium and germany. and wildfires burning from the greek islands to the hills in france. and if we don’t believe our own eyes, we only have to follow the science. the united nations recently published an ipcc report, the intergovernmental panel on climate change. it is the authority on the science of climate change. the report leaves no doubt. climate change is only man-made. but since it is man-made, we can do something about it. as i heard it said: it’s warming. it’s us. we’re sure. it’s bad, but we can fix it. and change is already happening. more electric vehicles than diesel cars were registered in germany in the first half of this year. poland is now the eu’s largest exporter of batteries and electric buses. or take the new european bauhaus that led to an explosion of creativity of architects, designers, engineers across our union. and if the european green deal has a soul, then it is the new european bauhaus. so clearly something is on the move. and this is what the european green deal is all about. in my speech last year, i announced our target of at least 55% emissions reduction by 2030. since then we have together turned our climate goals into legal obligations. and we are the first major economy to present comprehensive legislation in order to get it done. you have seen the complexity of the detail. but the goal is simple. we will put a price on pollution. we will clean the energy we use. we will have smarter cars and cleaner airplanes. and we will make sure that higher climate ambition comes with more social ambition, because this must be a fair green transition. this is why we proposed a new social climate fund to tackle the energy poverty that already 34 million europeans suffer from. so i count on both parliament and member states to keep the package and to keep the ambition together. when it comes to climate change and the nature crisis, europe can do a lot. and it will support others. i am proud to announce today that the european union will double its external funding for biodiversity, in particular for the most vulnerable countries. but europe cannot do it alone. the cop26 in glasgow will be a moment of truth for the global community. major economies, from the us to japan, have set ambitions for climate neutrality in 2050 or shortly after. that’s good. but they need now to be backed up by concrete plans in time for glasgow. because current commitments for 2030 will not keep global warming at 1.5°c within reach. every country has a responsibility. the goals that president xi has set out for china are encouraging. but we call for that same leadership on setting out how china will get there. the world would be relieved if they showed they could peak emissions by mid-decade and move away from coal at home and abroad. but while every country has a responsibility, major economies like us do have a special duty to the least developed and the most vulnerable countries. the so-called climate finance is essential for them, both for mitigation and adaptation. in mexico and in paris, the major economies committed to provide usd 100 billion a year until 2025 to the least developed and most vulnerable countries. we deliver on our commitments. team europe contributes usd 25 billion a year. but others still leave a gaping hole towards reaching the global target. so closing that gap will increase the chance of success in glasgow. my message today is that europe is ready to do more. we will now propose an additional eur 4 billion for climate finance until 2027. but we expect the united states and our partners to step up too. this is vital because closing the climate finance gap together, the us and the european union, would be such a strong signal for global climate leadership and it is time to deliver now. we have no time to wait anymore. this climate and economic leadership is central to europe’s global and security objectives. it also reflects a wider shift in world affairs at a time of transition towards a new international order. we are entering a new era of hyper-competitiveness. an era in which some stop at nothing to gain influence, from vaccine promises to high interest loans, from missiles to misinformation. an era of regional rivalries and major powers refocusing their attention towards each other. recent events in afghanistan are not the cause of this change, but they are a symptom of it. and first and foremost, i want to be clear. we stand by the afghan people. we stand by the afghan people, the women and children, prosecutors, journalists and human rights defenders. i think in particular of women judges who are now in hiding from the men they jailed. they have been put at risk for their contribution to justice and the rule of law. we must support them and we will coordinate all efforts with member states to bring them to safety. and we must continue supporting all afghans in the country and in neighbouring countries. we must do everything to avert the real risk that is out there of a major famine and a humanitarian disaster. and we will do our part. we will increase again humanitarian aid for afghanistan by eur 100 million. this will be part of a new, wider afghan support package that we will present in the next weeks to combine all of our efforts. witnessing events unfold in afghanistan was profoundly painful for the families and friends of fallen servicemen and servicewomen. we bow to the sacrifice of those soldiers, diplomats and aid workers who laid down their lives for our common cause. to make sure that their service will never be in vain, we have to reflect on how this mission could end so abruptly. there are deeply troubling questions that allies will have to tackle within nato. but there is simply no security and defence issue where less cooperation is the answer. so we need to invest in our joint partnership and draw on each side’s unique strength. and this is why we are working with secretary-general jens stoltenberg on a new eu-nato joint declaration to be presented before the end of the year. but this is only one part of the equation. europe can, and clearly should, be able and willing to do more on its own. but if we are to do more, we first need to explain why. i see three broad categories. first, we need to provide stability in our neighbourhood and across different regions. we are connected to the world by narrow straits, stormy seas and vast land borders. and because of that geography, europe knows better than anyone else that if you don’t deal in time with a crisis abroad, the crisis will come to you. secondly, the nature of the threats we face is evolving rapidly, from hybrid to cyberattacks to the growing arms race in space. we see that disruptive technology has been the great equaliser in the way power can be used today by rogue states and non-state groups. you no longer need an army or missile to cause mass damage. you can paralyse industrial plants, city administrations and hospitals, all you need is your laptop. you can disrupt entire elections with a smartphone and an internet connection. and the third reason is that our european union is a unique security provider. there will be missions where nato or the united nations will not be present, but where europe should be. on the ground, our soldiers work side-by-side with police officers, lawyers and doctors, with humanitarian workers and human rights defenders, with teachers and engineers. we can combine military and civilian, alongside with diplomatic and development, and we have a long history in building and protecting peace. the good news is that over the past years, we have started to develop a kind of european defence ecosystem. but what we need now is the european defence union. in the last weeks, there have been many discussions on expeditionary forces, on what type and how many we need, battlegroups and eu entry forces. this is no doubt part of the debate and i think it will be part of the solution, but the more fundamental issue is, why this has not worked in the past. you can have the most advanced forces in the world, but if you are never prepared to use them, of what use are they? what has held us back until now is not just a shortfall of capacity, it is the lack of political will. and if we develop this political will, there is a lot that we can do at eu level. allow me to give you three concrete examples. first, we need to build the foundation for collective decision-making, and this is what i call situational awareness. we fall short if member states active in the same region do not share their information at the eu level. it is vital that we improve intelligence cooperation. but this is not just about intelligence in the narrow sense. it is about bringing together the knowledge from all services and all sources, from space to police trainers, from open source to development agencies. the european union could have a unique scope and depth of knowledge. it is out there. but we can only use that information and make decisions if we have the full picture. and this is currently not the case. we have the knowledge, but it is disjointed. we have the information but it is fragmented. and this is why the european union could consider its own joint situational awareness centre to fuse all of these different pieces of information and to be better prepared, to be fully informed and thus to be able to decide. secondly, we need to improve interoperability. this is why we are already investing in common european platforms, from fighter jets to drones and cyber. you know that. but we have to keep thinking of new ways to use all the possible synergies. one example could be to consider waiving value added tax, the vat, when buying defence equipment developed and produced in europe. this would not only increase our interoperability, but it would also decrease our dependencies of today. and the third point is, we cannot talk about defence without talking about cyber. if everything is connected, everything can be hacked. given that resources are scarce, we have to bundle our forces. and we should not just be satisfied to address the cyber threat, but also strive to become a leader in cyber security. it should be here in europe where cyber defence tools are developed. and this is why we need a european cyber defence policy, including legislation on common standards under a new european cyber resilience act. so, we can do a lot at eu level. but member states need to do more too. and this starts with a common assessment of the threats we face and a common approach to dealing with them. the upcoming strategic compass is the key process to this discussion. and we need to decide how we can use all the possibilities that are already in the treaty. and this is why, under the french presidency, president macron and i will convene a summit on european defence. it is time for europe to step up to the next level. in a more contested world, protecting our interests is not only about defending ourselves. it is also about forging strong and reliable partnerships. this is not a luxury, it is essential for our future stability, security and prosperity. and this work starts by deepening our partnership with our closest allies. with the united states we will develop our new agenda for global change. from the new tech and technology council to health security and sustainability, the european union and the united states will always be stronger together. and of course the same goes for our neighbours in the western balkans. before the end of the month, i will travel to the region to send a strong signal of our commitment to the accession process. we owe it to all those young people who believe in a future, in europe. and this is why we are ramping up our support through our new investment and economic plan, with around a third of the region’s gdp. because investment in the future of the western balkans is an investment in the future of the european union. and we will also continue investing in our partnerships in our neighbourhood, from stepping up our engagement in the eastern partnership to implementing the new agenda for the mediterranean and continuing to work on the different aspects of our relationship to turkey. if europe is to become a more active global player, it also needs to focus on the next generation of partnerships. in this spirit, today’s new eu-indo-pacific strategy is a milestone. it reflects the growing importance of the region to our prosperity and our security. but it also reflects the fact that autocratic regimes use it to try to expand their influence. europe needs to be more active and to be more present in the region. so we will work together to deepen trade links, strengthen global supply chains and develop new investment projects on green and digital technologies. this is a template for how europe can redesign its model to connect the world. we are pretty good at financing roads. but it does not make any sense for europe if we build a perfect road between a chinese copper mine, that is chinese-owned, and a harbour that is chinese-owned. so we have to get smarter when it comes to these kinds of investments. and this is why we will soon present our new connectivity strategy called global gateway. we will build global gateway partnerships with countries around the world. we want investment in quality infrastructure, connecting people, goods and services around the world. we will take a values-based approach, offering transparency and good governance to our partners. we want to create links and not dependencies. and we know that this can work. since the summer, a new underwater fibre optic cable has connected brazil to portugal. we will invest with africa to create a market for green hydrogen that connects the two shores of the mediterranean. we need a team europe approach to make global gateway happen. we will connect institutions and investment, banks and business community. and we will make this a priority for regional summits, starting with the next eu-africa summit in february. we want to turn global gateway into a trusted brand around the world. and let me be very clear about one more point. doing business around the world is good. global trade around the world, that is good and necessary. but this can never, ever be done at the expense of people’s dignity and freedom. today, there are around 25 million people out there who are threatened or coerced into forced labour. we can never accept that they are forced to make products and that these products then end up for sale here in shops in europe. so we will propose a ban on products in our market that have been made by forced labour, because human rights are not for sale – at any price. human beings are not bargaining chips. look at what happened at our borders with belarus. the regime in minsk has instrumentalised human beings. they have put people on planes and literally pushed them towards europe’s border. this can never be tolerated. and the quick european reaction shows that. and rest assured, we will continue to stand together with lithuania, latvia and poland. and, let’s call it what it is: this is a hybrid attack to destabilise europe. we’ll never tolerate that. these are not isolated events. we saw similar incidents at other borders. and we can expect to see it again. and this is why, as part of our work on schengen, we will set out new ways to respond to such aggression and ensure unity in protecting our external borders. but as long as we do not find common ground on how to manage migration, our opponents will continue to target this. meanwhile, human traffickers continue to exploit people through deadly routes across the mediterranean. and these events show us that every country has a stake in building a european migration system. the new pact on migration and asylum gives us everything we need to manage the different types of situations we face. all the elements are there. this is a balanced and humane system that works for all member states in all circumstances. we know that we can find common ground. but in the year since the commission presented the pact, progress has been painfully slow, and i think this is the moment now for a european migration management policy. so i urge this house and the member states to speed up the process. this ultimately comes down to a question of trust. trust between member states. trust for europeans that migration can be managed. trust that europe will always live up to its enduring duty to the most vulnerable and most in need. i know that there are many strongly held views on migration in europe but i believe the common ground is not so far away. because if you ask most europeans, they would agree that we should act to curb irregular migration but they would also agree that we have to act to provide a refuge for those forced to flee. they would agree that we should return those who have no right to stay. but they would also agree that we should welcome those who come here legally and make such a vital contribution to our society and our economies. and we should all agree that the topic of migration should never be used to divide us. i am convinced that there is a way that europe can build trust amongst us when it comes to migration. meine damen und herren abgeordnete! gesellschaften, die auf demokratie und gemeinsame werte bauen, stehen auf einem stabilen fundament. sie trauen den menschen etwas zu. und so entwickeln sich neue ideen, so entsteht veränderung, so überwinden wir unrecht. das vertrauen auf genau diese gemeinsamen werte, das führte unsere gründerväter und gründermütter nach dem zweiten weltkrieg zusammen. und es sind genau die gleichen werte, die die freiheitskämpfer einten, die vor nun mehr als 30 jahren den eisernen vorhang niederrissen. sie wollten demokratie. sie wollten ihre regierung frei wählen. sie wollten den rechtsstaat, vor gericht sollen alle gleich sein. sie wollten der bespitzelung und staatlichen spionage ein ende setzen und die korruption bekämpfen. sie wollten die freiheit, anders zu sein als die mehrheit. oder, wie es der ehemalige tschechische präsident václav havel auch so wunderbar auf den punkt gebracht hat, sie wollten – und ich zitiere – „alle diese großartigen europäischen werte“. es sind diese werte, die dem kulturellen, religiösen und humanistischen erbe europas entstammen. sie sind teil unserer seele, teil dessen, was uns heute ausmacht. und diese werte sind nun in unseren europäischen verträgen verankert. und wir haben uns alle dazu verpflichtet, sie einzuhalten, als wir als freie und souveräne staaten teil dieser union wurden. wir sind entschlossen, diese werte zu verteidigen. und wir werden in dieser entschlossenheit niemals nachlassen. unsere werte sind durch unsere rechtsordnung garantiert, und die urteile des europäischen gerichtshofs sichern sie. und diese urteile sind bindend. und wir achten darauf, dass sie eingehalten werden, und zwar in jedem mitgliedstaat unserer union. denn der schutz der rechtsstaatlichkeit ist nicht nur ein nobles ziel, er ist auch harte arbeit und ein tägliches ringen um verbesserung. unsere berichte zur rechtsstaatlichkeit sind durch die reformen ein teil dieses prozesses. ein positives beispiel dafür sind jetzt die justizreformen in malta oder die korruptionsuntersuchungen in der slowakei. und ab 2022 werden diese berichte zur rechtsstaatlichkeit zusätzlich konkrete empfehlungen an die mitgliedstaaten enthalten. trotzdem gibt es in einigen mitgliedstaaten besorgniserregende entwicklungen. und hier ist mir eines wichtig: am anfang steht immer der dialog. aber der dialog ist kein selbstzweck, er muss auch zu einem ziel führen. und deshalb verfolgen wir den dualen ansatz aus dialog und entschlossenem handeln. und genau das haben wir letzte woche getan, und das werden wir auch weiterhin tun. denn das recht auf eine unabhängige justiz, das recht, vor dem gesetz gleich behandelt zu werden, auf diese rechte müssen sich menschen verlassen können, und zwar überall in europa und unabhängig davon, ob sie einer mehrheit angehören oder einer minderheit. das ist die seele unseres europas, und die müssen wir verteidigen. und, meine damen und herren abgeordnete, der europäische haushalt ist die in zahlen gegossene zukunft unserer union. und deshalb muss auch er geschützt werden. wir müssen dafür sorgen, dass jeder euro und jeder cent seinem zweck zugutekommt und nach rechtsstaatlichen grundsätzen ausgegeben wird. investitionen, die unseren kindern in zukunft zugutekommen werden, dürfen nicht in finsteren kanälen verschwinden. korruption – korruption bedeutet nicht nur den diebstahl am steuerzahler. korruption bedeutet nicht nur, dass investoren abgeschreckt werden. korruption führt dazu, dass großes geld sich große und kleine gefälligkeiten kaufen kann und dass die mächtigen demokratische regeln aushebeln können. und wenn es um den schutz unseres budgets geht, werden wir jeden fall verfolgen, mit allem, was in unserer macht steht, und in kürze damit beginnen. meine damen und herren abgeordnete, wenn wir unsere werte verteidigen, dann verteidigen wir auch die freiheit. die freiheit, zu sein, wer man ist, die freiheit, zu sagen, was einem durch den kopf geht, die freiheit, zu lieben, wen man will. freiheit bedeutet aber auch die freiheit von angst. während der pandemie wurden zu viele frauen dieser freiheit beraubt. es muss eine besonders schreckliche zeit für diejenigen gewesen sein, die sich nirgendwo verstecken konnten, die nirgendwo vor ihren peinigern fliehen konnten. wir müssen licht in dieses dunkel bringen. wir müssen wege aus dem schmerz aufzeigen, ihre peiniger müssen vor gericht gestellt werden. und diese frauen müssen wieder frei und selbstbestimmt leben können. wir werden deshalb bis ende des jahres ein gesetz zur bekämpfung von gewalt gegen frauen auf den weg bringen. es geht um wirksame strafverfolgung, um prävention und schutz, online wie offline. es geht um die würde jeder einzelnen, und es geht um gerechtigkeit. und auch das ist die seele europas. und dafür werden wir kämpfen. meine damen und herren abgeordnete, lassen sie uns zum schluss auf eine freiheit blicken, die allen anderen freiheiten eine stimme gibt – und das ist die medienfreiheit. journalistinnen und journalisten werden angegriffen, einfach nur, weil sie ihre arbeit machen. einige werden bedroht und verprügelt, andere tragischerweise ermordet – mitten in unserer union. ich möchte hier einige namen nennen: daphne caruana galizia, ján kuciak, peter de vries. ihre geschichten mögen sich in den details unterscheiden. doch eines ist ihnen gemeinsam: sie haben für unser recht auf information gekämpft, und dafür sind sie gestorben. information ist ein öffentliches gut. wir müssen diejenigen schützen, die transparenz schaffen: die journalistinnen und journalisten. und deshalb haben wir heute eine empfehlung zum besseren schutz von journalistinnen und journalisten vorgelegt. und wir müssen denjenigen einhalt gebieten, die die medienfreiheit bedrohen. medienhäuser sind nicht einfach x-beliebige wirtschaftsunternehmen. ihre unabhängigkeit ist essenziell, und deshalb braucht europa ein gesetz, das diese unabhängigkeit sichert. und genau ein solches medienfreiheitsgesetz werden wir im nächsten jahr vorlegen. denn wenn wir die freiheit der medien verteidigen, dann verteidigen wir auch unsere demokratie. honourable members, strengthening schuman’s european ideal that i invoked earlier is a continuous work. and we should not hide away from our inconsistencies and imperfections. but imperfect as we might be, our union is both beautifully unique and uniquely beautiful. it is a union where we strengthen our individual liberty through the strength of our community. a union shaped as much by our shared history and values as by our different cultures and perspectives. it is a union with a soul. trying to find the right words to capture the essence of this feeling is not easy. but it is easier when you borrow them from someone who inspires you. and this is why i have invited a guest of honour to be with us today. many of you might know her – a gold medallist from italy who captured my heart this summer. but what you might not know is that only in april she was told her life was in peril. she went through surgery, she fought back, she recovered. and only 119 days after she left the hospital, she won paralympic gold. honourable members, please join me in welcoming bebe vio. (sustained applause) bebe has overcome so much, so young. her story is one of rising against all odds. of succeeding thanks to talent, tenacity and unrelenting positivity. she is the image of her generation, a leader and an advocate for the causes she believes in. and she has managed to achieve all of that by living up to her belief that, if it seems impossible, then it can be done. se sembra impossibile, allora si può fare. (applause)and this was the spirit of european founders and this is the spirit of europe’s next generation. so let’s be inspired by bebe and by all the young people who change our perception of the possible. who show us that you can be what you want to be and that you can achieve whatever you believe in. honourable members, that is the soul of europe. that is the future of europe. let’s make it stronger. viva l’europa! (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, debating the state of the union means today the first focus on what the pandemic has brought. not everything went well and smoothly, but all in all, europe has managed the crisis well. no other continent has developed a vaccine of a better quality. no other continent has a higher vaccination rate. no other continent has shown more solidarity and willingness to help each other, and no other continent has provided other parts of the world with more vaccines than we have. all europe is proud of our everyday heroes, the doctors and nurses, researchers and many others, and we thank them for their contribution. the crisis defence began in china. in europe, we found the solutions. we can be proud about what europeans achieved in the past. when we look now what is in front of us, there are two main issues. we are emerging stronger from the crisis, but this crisis has caused and left deep social and economic wounds. many people fear for their existence, for their jobs. only if we create jobs, then we can secure our prosperity and we can care about the weakest in our society and we will defend the european way of life. alongside the green deal, we are thinking as epp that now is also the time for a jobs deal. in addition to this, after afghanistan, we now really need a common foreign and defence policy. joe biden is clear, the us is no longer a world policeman. but where is europe? russia and china are just waiting to fill the vacuum, and that would be fatal for the future. we would wake up in a world in which we and also our children will not want to live. based on these two points, i want to make very concrete proposals for what we have to do now. firstly, the rapid development of a vaccine was only possible because the authorities worked quickly during the approval process. that is what the biontech founders told us; no blockades. but this speed is what we also need now in other fields of the research sector and in the investments for the climate protection. with an immediate action plan for cutting bureaucracies in the european union, we should work together with all stakeholders to identify 300 eu regulations that we will abolish or simplify in the next 12 months. secondly, for the production of an electric car, only half the number of employees is needed. many industrial jobs in the european union are under threat. new jobs are urgently needed in today’s european union. international trade was and is a job machine. why not now pick up this debate with our american friends? let us negotiate an eu-us trade emergency programme on the mobility sector, on mechanical engineering in the digital economy as soon as possible, as a first step for a broader comprehensive trade agreement. and only this will be the way to strengthen the western economy, key industrial sectors. and together we can protect ourselves against china. the european union and the us together represent 50% of the global economy. together, we can start the growth machine that benefits the whole world. thirdly, the pandemic has shown us how important the health sector is. the coming decade will bring a wave of innovation in medicine. we can beat cancer. i want europe to create 10 million new jobs in the next four years with an immediate innovation offensive in this field. at the beginning of the digitalisation 20 years ago, we, as europeans, overslept the innovation on internet and jobs were created in the us and in china. today, neither the chinese nor the americans are ahead with the covid vaccines, but we are. so let us use our know-how right now. fourthly, defence. we and i fully welcome the initiatives from ursula von der leyen today and also the decision of the defence council in ljubljana. but, what are we waiting for? the lisbon treaty gives us all options if we want to create a reaction force. so let’s do it and let us do it now. fifthly, global responsibility. some 15 000 children die of hunger worldwide every day. the everyday horror, and we hardly speak about it. the weakest suffer most from the covid crisis. that is why we must reallocate and free up funds. like we are doing in afghanistan now. to invest, we need to stop the silent and daily mass deaths in this world. finally, without law and security, the rest means nothing. that is why we stand for a robust application of the rule of law mechanism inside of the european union, but that is not enough. cross-border tax fraud, money laundering and criminal organisations, mafia make its way through our societies, and the terrorist threat is still high in europe. why don’t we finally transform europol into a real european fbi? the european commission should present in the next 12 months a legislative package to strengthen security in the european union. ursula von der leyen was clear that we can lead the world with the green deal. i want to put on the table that we have to have the same ambitions now for new jobs, for our international responsibility and for security. let’s do it.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, madam president von der leyen, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago we had this debate in exceptional circumstances. we faced important challenges: to stop the spread of the pandemic, to ensure vaccination in europe, to make historic investments to mitigate the economic effects of the crisis, accompanied by social measures that leave no one behind, and, at the same time, to strengthen our democracies in the face of attacks that weaken the rule of law. looking back, we can take a positive balance: 70% of the european population is vaccinated, the digital certificate has allowed us to recover one of the fundamental freedoms of our union - freedom of movement - we have passed the next generation eu and money is starting to reach individuals, families and businesses. we have been insisting ever since in the socialist family that these investments should be made with a view to the future. they must be the beginning of a transition towards a more sustainable economic and social model, a true sustainability pact. the climate act is an important milestone towards achieving climate neutrality by 2050, and this parliament has succeeded in raising the greenhouse gas reduction above 55% by 2030. but we cannot fall into complacency. we've done a lot, yes, but we're only halfway there. one of the most important aspects of the european union - the health union - needs to be strengthened. president von der leyen, when she presented to this house the political guidelines for her term of office, promised to make a transition to a social green market economy. but let me tell you that these three elements are not even remotely balanced yet. it is certainly in the area of environmental sustainability that the european commission's agenda has made the most progress, with a whole battery of laws, with the package of measures objective 55. it is a team effort led by vice-president timmermans and a demonstration that collegiality works when all the ideas and energies of the whole college are combined. among them, we socialists are missing a law to protect biodiversity. the fires and floods this summer are a clear example of that need and you have referred to it. but what worries me most is that there is an imbalance between the three pillars of this new economic and social model that we want to build, a resilient model that guarantees people's well-being. to avoid a social fracture as we move forward with environmental policies, it is essential to strengthen the social climate fund. and when i say to strengthen the social climate fund, i mean to give it more financial means and clear criteria for its distribution. in its outlook report a year ago, the commission said that a resilient europe will emerge earlier and emerge stronger from any crisis to implement the sustainable development goals. because let us not forget that this is the ultimate goal of any policy, of any strategy: the well-being of the people. that is what we should devote our time to, our effort to. i think we haven't done enough yet, because the pandemic has exacerbated the difficulties and inequalities of an unfair economic model. the most vulnerable groups are those who have suffered the most and are still suffering: the elderly, children, health and care workers, people with fewer resources and less training, immigrants, who, let us not forget, are also at risk of being scapegoats for populist and xenophobic messages. more reforms are needed to reduce the level of uncertainty. but this people-centred economy also requires governance reforms, with indicators that take human development into account, and it requires a real social pillar. the porto summit was a first step, but we need clear objectives to continue its implementation. i would also like to reiterate a fundamental point: the gender dimension. you made a lot of announcements, mrs von der leyen, this morning. let me say that for my group the announcement of the commission's commitment to present a law against gender violence in europe is certainly great news, excellent news. we have been calling for this european law for years to combat the worst scourge that exists at the moment, because in the world, in europe, there are women who lose their lives, who are killed simply because they are women, and we cannot remain indifferent to this reality. and let me say that i still do not understand how there can be groups in this house who are not willing to incorporate gender-based violence into the european legal order. let's work to make it so. it is also a moral duty - speaking of moral duties - to have a policy on migration and asylum, because it is fundamental, because we are seeing what is happening in afghanistan, and also the need for europe to speak with one voice on foreign policy. let us be brave, it's time to move beyond unanimity to decide on foreign policy. and the rule of law is fundamental. the european union is a value, it is a defence of the rule of law, and we must be firm. the commission has taken steps, but it must be even more courageous. the socialist and democratic group will be in it. finally, reflecting on the great upheavals with which we began the 21st century, jorge sampaio, a great european and a great socialist, said that he did not know what the world would look like in a few years' time, but only hoped to look back and see that we had succeeded in preserving the values of democracy, fundamental rights, freedom and tolerance. he is no longer with us, but his fight for those values is also our fight, for the europe of today and for future generations. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, we are approaching half of the mandate that the european voters gave us in 2019 and i must confess to you that i am impatient. of course, you are right to remind us of the progress of the union, the progress that the union has made during the pandemic, a historic recovery plan, it must be admitted, a new role of the union in health... but these advances have often been dictated by events, and on matters that are purely a matter of will, and i can hardly see you doing that. too often you are engaged in diplomacy with the council instead of politics with the european parliamentarians. take the european values, for example, which are the basis of our union. in many parts of europe, there are growing centres of illiberalism. the independence of judges is being undermined, journalists are being murdered and minorities are being discriminated against. these fires of illiberalism must be extinguished, madam president, before the fire spreads. this is your responsibility, and you have the means to do it. now, i hear you, but i don't see the effects yet. i do not see you using, for example, the rule of law protection mechanism requested by the european parliament to protect our budget and stop funding illiberal abuses in europe. you must find the political courage to use this mechanism, because that is why we decided to do so. it has been in force for almost a year and is still not being applied. if you do not have the courage, we simply remind you of your obligation to enforce european law before the court of justice. madam president, you are engaging in diplomacy with the council instead of engaging in politics with us and i think that is a mistake. on the green agenda and the implementation of the climate package, which we discussed at length yesterday, but also on the negotiations on the migration package or on the digital agenda, you will need us to get the council moving. your role is not just to make proposals, but also to get results. only then will trust in europe become a natural thing. finally, i look forward to seeing you give substance to the slogan of the "geopolitical commission". we have welcomed this ambition, which you set out at the beginning of your mandate, with great enthusiasm and we look forward to seeing it put into practice. the events in afghanistan remind us how much we need a real vision of defence in all its complexity in the 21st century, as you mentioned in your speech. they also remind us of how much our strategic autonomy and, dare we say it, our sovereignty must be asserted so that we are never again at the mercy of decisions taken in washington, beijing or moscow. charles michel has grasped the scale of this issue, but i am not sure that the 'geopolitical commission' has. one way to give some substance to that slogan, madam president, would be to take command of the battle for vaccination of the part of the world that cannot do it alone. we welcome, of course, the vaccination rate of 70% of the adult population in europe, whereas in africa only 3% of the population has received at least one dose. we wrote to you last week to explain how our budget could speed up vaccination in the poorest countries. that, madam president, is what the 'geopolitical commission' could be aiming at. in conclusion, last week our renew europe group proposed to the pro-european political forces in this house that they conclude a coalition agreement. a coalition contract to renew europe, for a europe of values, for a europe that is strong in an unstable world and for a europe of results. my question is simple, madam president: do you want to be in that coalition?
madam president, i say to president von der leyen: in 2019 as a candidate for the office you are holding right now, you said in this plenary, and i quote: ‘the foundation of our european civilisation is greek philosophy and roman law’. what you did not mention in that speech is the fundamental role that christianity, and implicitly the judeo-christian values, had in developing the european civilisation. based on these christian values and the belief that all human beings are created in the image of god, the fundamental and inalienable rights were developed which later were specified in treaties and conventions, as well as national constitutions and laws. reducing the european civilisation only to greek philosophy and roman law and ignoring the judeo-christian values you will find arguments for inequality and slavery, as there was in ancient greece, and tyranny, as there was in ancient rome. under your leadership unfortunately, the european union became from an area of freedom, a concentration camp in which people cannot travel, eat in restaurants or go to movies unless they have a green certificate. i urge you, therefore, to promote and defend in the european union the christian heritage and values based on which we are all created by god, equal and born free.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. one minute, three quick thoughts. firstly, this house applauds the new own resources you propose. i'm sad about that. there should be voices of protest. but unfortunately we are dealing here essentially with statists and redistributors. the second idea is that the european youth - much talked about here - should be free and not be guided by their youth on the conveyor belt of any programme. let them do it. they can do it without the eu, and they can do it much better on their own. i am very sad to see young people leaving this country, leaving this eu. they're not going to eu countries. many well-educated young people are leaving the eu in germany this is particularly stark. third thought: if you really want to prevent the exploitation of nature, and i believe you, you have to do it differently. you can't do that with wind power. and, mrs von der leyen, electric mobility is not going to work either. if you really look at the resource consumption, you'll be surprised. wind power is a disaster. offshore is completely out of the question. they cannot provide a permanent supply of energy, it is a robbery of nature. that's the problem.
mr president, madam president, you are right to point out that you are in the third part of your term, not the half. i would like to say that, despite the pandemic, the easiest part has been done, namely to open the files and submit proposals. now we have to make the ambitions, which are many in the environmental field, in the social field, in the field of the rule of law and the defence of democracy, a reality. in the field of migration, they may be a little less common. we're going to have to make all of this happen. and here i want to say that we should not underestimate the fact that there is a dose of conflict, even if we want to be as inclusive as possible. so at some point, we're gonna have to count ourselves and find majorities. and then you're going to have to weigh in with all your might to build those majorities and accept that not everyone is going to be part of it, that there are people who won't want more financial solidarity, people who won't want more climate action, people who won't want real action on the rule of law issue. we'll have to take on this conflict to build majorities. i want, like you, to be as inclusive as possible. at some point, we will have to rely on each other and be able to count on you and your commitment to build these majorities.
madam president, you have heard the speakers at the meeting: you have, indeed, the right words. what we are now looking for is action and i am fully aware that we must do this together. you will have the full support of the renew group and i am sure that you will have a majority here in parliament to implement as quickly as possible what is already on the table. it is true that you have about three years left in your mandate, so i think there is still a year to put the new proposals you have on the table and then to put things into practice. i also heard your message on the rule of law mechanism and i thank you for it. i think that's the signal that a lot of people are waiting for because it's true that the economy matters, money matters, jobs matter and people expect a lot from it. but we must build it on a solid foundation. one last word: do not forget the conference on the future of europe. we have committed ourselves to follow up on the conclusions that will emerge. we are with you on this too and we expect the commission to put forward proposals once these conclusions are on the table. thank you very much, i know you are aware of the fact that people expect you to leave a better european union than the one you found.
in writing. the success of the union in promoting its interests on the global political stage is a crucial factor in assessing the state of the european union. unfortunately, we have to see that europe is constantly losing space. however, the western balkans region is a part of the world where the eu could very quickly and very easily strengthen its position, in particular by accelerating the enlargement processes. we must understand that for europe to be a strong player on the world stage, it must first be strong at home, in europe. in the past, each wave of expansion has brought new energy and momentum. the enlargement of central and eastern europe has not only created an internal unity for europe, but has also strengthened its global position. the same would be true of enlargement to the western balkans, with serbia at the forefront, a key country in the region, which is patiently waiting its turn and sticking to the european integration path, despite the fact that it will be a candidate country for 10 years next year and unfortunately is still far from the end of the accession process. the primary reason for the slowness is that the sceptics of enlargement are constantly hiding behind technocratic criteria systems defined during the accession negotiations, deliberately delaying strategic decisions for a variety of domestic policy reasons and interests. but time is of the essence. i hope that in the coming year's speech we will hear more decisive political views.
in writing. the epidemic has had extraordinary and unpredictable consequences on our lives: social, economic, cultural... it has deepened inequalities in society in almost every area. we in the socialist and democratic group work well with the commission and are pleased that they have incorporated many of our progressive proposals and policies into their programme, such as the proposal to introduce a european minimum wage and more ambitious climate targets, which are also being achieved. our support for the european commission has never been a blank cheque. so today we expect to deal with the eu situation not only in the face, but to insist on a fundamental transformation of our society and economy. we always want to put sustainable development and prosperity, including environmental, health and social progress, at the forefront. we need to address the gender gap, which has been exacerbated by the health crisis. we must also ensure that the eu becomes a leading partner for third countries in the international arena. the president thus touched on all the key areas in her speech. but we've seen in the past that many ideas have not been realized. this is also due to the wrong priorities in some member states. so, did president von der leyen manage to seize the moment to convince her to stay in office and move on?
in writing. you devoted a great deal of your speech to security, reiterating the calls you have made for years for a full european defence union and a european army. you announced a summit on european defence. in presenting these far-reaching plans, you never mentioned russia, you never mentioned aggression against ukraine or occupation of parts of georgia. it is the scale of the global threats - in europe's case, mainly from the russian federation - that really requires investment in defence and close cooperation. these investments are being made by the countries in my region. the problems of the union will not be solved by the creation of a brigade of the union army. the union has recently been given new instruments, such as the european peace facility (epf). unfortunately, these instruments are not being fully used to support our strategic partners in the east. the union should not seek new competences but rather be effective in those areas where the treaties give it a strong position. in your speech you completely omitted the energy security of the union. the energy blackmail that europe is currently undergoing only proves how dangerous the nord stream 2 project is. the commission's silence on these matters means that no one in charge will agree to hand over more security powers to brussels. i therefore remain convinced that nato, strong transatlantic ties and the defence potential of individual countries are the only guarantees of the security of the euro-atlantic area.
written. mr president, mrs von der leyen, thank you for your reflection on the past year. i welcome the commission's efforts to respond to the many challenges we have faced, and there have been many. together we have started to build the european health union, we have adopted the european climate law committing ourselves to become a climate neutral continent by 2050, and the covid crisis has only accelerated the digital transition of our societies and economies. in our efforts to respond to the many existential challenges, we must not forget that many of our citizens are still suffering the severe consequences of the covid crisis. it is therefore crucial that union legislation, at all levels, recognises the importance of the social dimension and that we ensure that the transition ahead is socially sensitive and just. initiatives such as the social climate fund, through which member states will help citizens to finance investments in energy efficiency, new heating and cooling systems and cleaner mobility, can make a significant contribution to strengthening collective capacities to meet the challenges posed by climate change and digitalisation. our citizens are the backbone of the green and digital transition, and all our efforts to implement it should reflect their well-being.
in writing. dear president von der leyen, i would like to welcome the announcement of the proposal for a new strategy for the future of the schengen area and remind you that your country of origin, romania, has been fulfilling all the necessary conditions for the application of the schengen acquis since june 2011. this has been recognised by heads of state or government in the council on numerous occasions, as well as in european commission communications and european parliament resolutions in recent years. however, ten years later, romania is still outside the schengen area, and romanian citizens, perhaps the most pro-european in the entire eu, still stand in line at border controls for every exit or entry into the country. this unjustifiable situation is difficult to accept and difficult to explain to the romanian citizens. i therefore ask you, ms von der leyen, both as president of the european commission and as a member of the european council, to address this issue in the new schengen strategy and to send a message to the romanian people during your visit to bucharest on 27 september.
in writing. europe must become more crisis resilient. this has been clearly demonstrated by past challenges, from the debt crisis, to the migration crisis, to the unresolved and very challenging climate crisis or the pandemic. now is the time to take the necessary steps to actively meet the challenges of the future. in several situations where swift action was needed, the european union acted sluggishly and immobile. the aim must therefore be to reduce unnecessary red tape at all levels in order to be able to react quickly to new challenges. the fight against illegal migration must be given special priority. we must actively combat the movements of smugglers and close the illegal escape routes. at the same time, it is necessary to provide aid on the ground in the crisis regions. we must therefore, as the european parliament, send a strong signal and implement many of the tasks we have mentioned as quickly as possible.
in writing. – one understands that a state of the union message should emphasise positive results. however, this is best done against the background of a realistic assessment of arising uncertainties and challenges. i doubt whether in her address, the commission president successfully achieved this. the emerging management dilemmas in the euro area were glossed over. proposed responses to tackle growing social inequalities are inadequate. the paralysis over a common migration policy got scant acknowledgement. on the green deal and digitalisation, one still needs to know more clearly how much progress is really being achieved. true, the eu had to overcome the disruption caused by the covid-19 pandemic, and it did this quite well. still, too many policy areas are operating in a suboptimal mode. the realisation is spreading among some that the union is being expected to play a leading role over matters for which it was not equipped. in response, to cope, others are eyeing further levels of european integration. but, as in the proposals for a defence union, this is also problematic, possibly dangerous. the commission president thinks otherwise. before heading for new major projects of integration, eu policymakers should focus on strengthening the current modus operandi, while aiming to attain a more meaningful level of democratic legitimacy.
in writing. for the european union, the pandemic is an opportunity for reform in those areas where citizens can feel it most positively. one of them is the health union, which, although not originally planned, is a living entity that is adapting to the times. connecting health systems and building shared capacity will improve care for the sick and save many lives. i am glad that this objective, this dimension, has been emphasised by the president of the european commission on several occasions in her speech. but it also stressed the fight against corruption and freedom of expression, another area that the european union has not yet addressed. but our european space cannot function without democratic values. ursula von der leyen mentioned slovakia and ján kuciak by name as examples of the fight for freedom of expression and against crime that we must support.
in writing. i am pleased that the proposals put forward by the president of the european commission have addressed some of the concerns of citizens and myself - for example, on the acceleration of vaccination, the european semiconductor strategy, the connectivity project global portal and digital education. but there were also some surprising points, such as the announcement of doubling eu funding for global biodiversity and increasing the european contribution to supporting the ecological transition in the world's least developed countries. this is because the eu risks unprecedented internal social and economic fracturing in the coming decades, in the absence of a serious analysis of the impact of the green transition. first of all, there must be real solidarity within the union, including in the form of a social pact for the climate, which we, the european social democrats, are proposing. secondly, a global partnership is needed to save the planet, of which the eu contributes only 9% of pollution. as regards mrs von der leyen's call for a european defence union, i would point out that from the necessary creation of a european cyber defence policy and capability to the fatal risk of duplication and undermining nato is a step that must be avoided categorically.
madam president, i have come from a meeting with journalists from gazeta wyborcza and other publications which are literally suffocated by illiberalists, and with judges and civil society who are in mourning for their freedom, their profession and basically all the things they believe in. and i must confess, i had no relevant answers for them. for those people there, rule of law now means hope, and it means survival. they were telling me how in poland, high-level officials from pis are comparing the union with hitler, and they are doing public polls to exit the union, which invaded poland. i don’t know where those fellows are who are actually getting paid with public european money while they’re stating what they’re stating here. maybe they call that patriotic. so my question is: what’s next? because what we are doing now is not enough. this is not enough. direct, solid support on the ground would be one answer. solid anti-slapp legislation would be another answer and, by all means, let’s make that conditionality a reality. because if values are ignored and thrown into the bin, maybe money hurts.
mr president, commissioner, we are talking about how the union's strategies and its farmers could become a model for the wider world. it's just that after we've imposed strict rules on them, and let them fend for themselves during the pandemic, when we were on the verge of a food crisis, we're doing it now, when they're struggling to put the same cheap, sustainably produced food on our table in the cruel conditions created by the explosion in energy prices. the state of the union address never mentioned the farmer or agriculture. we talk about how the european agricultural sector can contribute to the world's sustainable development goals, but we ignore a tool that our farmer urgently needs to produce affordable food sustainably and remain globally competitive. i am referring to reciprocity in food imports, because the absence of this principle could be the last blow to the european producer, which we want to model. the future europe needs both a soul and a vision, as president von der leyen said, but above all it needs food. a food that, no matter where it's produced, has to play by the same rules.
mr. president, thank you. 'leave no one behind' is the principle underlying our actions. however, we note that the current covid-19 crisis has had catastrophic effects on the european economy, affecting the living standards of citizens, especially the most vulnerable. the labour market has been strongly impacted, the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion has increased dramatically. growing social inequalities have deepened, affecting mainly low-wage workers but also low-income families. unemployment has risen alarmingly among eu citizens, and millions of europeans cannot afford their daily shopping basket or are unable to pay for utilities. in eastern europe, 25 million children were unable to benefit from some form of education due to lack of access to equipment and technology. unfortunately, the alarming number of children who have not had access to distance learning will lead to poor vocational training for them, with a devastating impact in the future on the quality of the workforce and, ultimately, a negative impact on the economies of all eu countries. so we have to move from the logic of speeches to the logic of deeds. the financial resources made available to the member states by the european commission must be used judiciously. at the same time, we must be very clear about one thing: creating new, well-paid jobs and consolidating existing ones is the best form of social protection. the european commission has to make sure that the european funds for the member states, whether we are talking about the recovery and resilience plan or we are talking about the multiannual financial framework, are used to fight social exclusion, poverty and this means, as i said, well-paid jobs in every region of the european union. and so i ask you, commissioner, how will the european commission ensure that this is implemented effectively in every member state of the european union?
mr president, the most important strength of europe is not the millions of europe in its budget; it’s the millions of people, defining every moment of its past, present and future. as president ursula von der leyen rightfully said today, in this same room, they are our spirit and our soul. but there is one part of our soul that needs to be taken care of – caressed, supported and encouraged, especially after the pandemic. it’s our next generation, our children and youth. strategic investment in children and youth should become a new norm. this is why renew promoted in the recovery and resilience facility a pillar dedicated to that. member states did not really rise to our expectations on the matter, and the commission knows that, and we hope that the commission will still keep the bar high in the implementation phase. it is essential to secure cohesive societies, labour stability and economic prosperity in the future, but care also needs to define all citizens concerned in these uncertain times. in this sense, we need to listen to our entrepreneurs, to our workers, to our self—employed, to vulnerable people across europe looking for jobs to exit poverty. many people feel increasingly threatened by the current crisis, which is fuelling inequalities, poverty, indebtedness and unemployment. populist and extremist politicians tap such fears irresponsibly in a world of fake news and lies. the question is, commissioner, how will the commission ensure that these endeavours related to the european pillar of social rights and the social agenda will be implemented?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the european commission is facing one of the greatest challenges, because the public health crisis generated by covid has presented us with a great challenge. you have a huge responsibility, commissioner, because, of course, we heard today from the president, here in the plenary of parliament, that your commitments are extremely important, extremely serious, extremely well thought out and well founded, but it is essential that from the commitment to the implementation you work together with national governments so that all the areas that have been heavily affected by the coronavirus, all the social categories that have been heavily affected by the pandemic are supported. it's clear that there have been powerful socioeconomic imbalances in our societies that have accelerated inequalities between people. some 91 million people, including 18 million children, are at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the european union. we must give them the attention they deserve to further the european union's commitment that no one should be left behind in this crisis by going through this crisis. one of the industries that has been hit hard across the european union is horeca. in my country, experts say that 30 percent of this industry will never recover. that is why you need to put the necessary pressure, work with national governments, so that recovery and resilience plans achieve the effect that the commission is aiming for.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard here in this house that these vaccine contracts are classified to protect the interests of companies. but i ask you: who protects the interests and rights of the citizens of the european union? eu citizens have the right to know the price of these vaccines and, in particular, the contractual clauses on who is responsible for adverse side effects of these vaccines. when the digital green certificate was discussed, commissioner reynders didier said in this plenary, and i quote, 'at this point in time, the effects of vaccines are not fully known.' is it right, then, for european bureaucrats or politicians to expose european citizens to risks and adverse effects of vaccines that are not yet fully known, and for citizens to not know who is effectively responding if such adverse side effects exist? pfizer, for one, has changed its prospectus and acknowledged that its vaccine can cause myocarditis and pericarditis, especially among young people. it is therefore unfair to make the exercise of rights by eu citizens on the basis of injection of such a medical product, the side effects of which are not yet fully known, subject to the digital green certificate. beyond the lack of transparency about these vaccines, there's another problem: for months, it's been publicly said that these vaccines are the only solution to stopping the coronavirus pandemic. but we see that countries with the highest vaccination rates also have the highest infection rates in the world, which contradicts all the rhetoric we've been told for months. the eu has now gone from an area of freedom, where the fundamental rights of everyone, of every person, are respected and protected, to a camp where the exercise of fundamental rights depends on obtaining a green certificate. this certificate is issued on the basis of receiving this vaccine which does not prevent the vaccinated person from getting sick or spreading the disease or on the basis of an artificial test which gives very high errors. this is not the first time in history that europe and the world have been in a pandemic. but this is the first time that the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms has been conditioned by medical products that do not stop the spread of the virus that caused this pandemic. i ask you not to lose sight of the fact that europe was conceived as a space of freedom. therefore, you have an obligation to respect and protect the rights of all and not to create a europe where people are discriminated against or segregated based on whether or not they have received a vaccine whose effects are not yet fully known.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank you for this report and a special thanks to mr petar vitanov for this report. i hear, i know that you are concerned about fundamental rights, and so am i. this summer, gangsters shot down and killed dutch journalist peter r. de vries in cold blood. an attack on a human being. an attack also on our society and our values, on our fundamental rights: the right to life, freedom of expression, freedom of the media. police caught the suspects within the hour with only a fragment of the getaway car’s registration number. using state-of-the-art camera systems, the police forced the car to a standstill on the motorway. smart digital technology used in defence of citizens’ and our fundamental rights. without this technology, these criminals would have quite simply got away. to protect both our people and their rights digital technology is no longer a ‘nice to have’, but a ‘need to have’ for law enforcement. first, because of the massive amounts of data. in one german state last year, the police seized 3 000 terabytes of data in child sexual abuse investigations alone. they estimated it would take one police officer more than 2 000 years to review, and that’s assuming an officer working eight hours a day looking at one picture every second. a computer processes these images 10 to 20 times faster at least, 24 hours a day, never gets tired, makes fewer mistakes, doesn’t get sick from what they see, does not need therapy. and time is of the essence. in the encrochat case, sky ecc and trojan shield, the police captured hundreds of millions of messages with criminals plotting drug deals, violent crimes and even murder. delays can cost lives. second, criminals increasingly use artificial intelligence to commit deception and fraud, cyber attacks and ransomware attacks. we can’t ask the police to bring a knife to a gunfight. we must equip the police with modern tools to fight modern crimes. third, we need up-to-date information exchange to fight cross-border crime, and i will address this in the upcoming proposals on a police cooperation code and the update of the prüm framework. i know you are concerned about the rights to privacy and data protection, and i must stress that we must both protect security and respect fundamental rights at the same time, that’s essential for the trust of our citizens. we need to demystify technology and explain the strong safeguards that already exist. a balanced approach and strong safeguards should govern law enforcement’s use of technology, anchored in national laws, guarded by data protection authorities, subject to redress mechanisms and parliamentary oversight. there is oversight on european level by, for example, the european data protection supervisor and the joint parliamentary scrutiny group on europol. the court of justice of the european union and the european court of human rights have built up a body of case law that is relevant for the use of technology by law enforcement. procedural rights are already guaranteed: the right to effective remedy, to a fair trial, the rights of defence and the presumption of innocence. i also agree that ai applications must fulfil robust legal and technical requirements, in particular when they are used by public authorities. the legal accountability for the eventual harmful effect of such systems must be clearly assigned. and this is why these issues are addressed in the commission’s proposed ai regulation. we need a european approach to ensure safety and full respect of fundamental rights when artificial intelligence is used. the proposal recognises ai as a strategic tool for law enforcement, to fight terrorism and organised crime. the regulation will facilitate the use of artificial intelligence in a transparent, reliable and secure way, also for law enforcement authorities, by providing clear rules. and i completely agree with you: there is no room for mass surveillance in our society. our proposal bans mass social scoring and prohibits live biometric identification in public spaces, with a few very well-defined exceptions. but the police must be able to use ai and digital technology for high risk cases with a potential adverse impact on fundamental rights. ai must live up to the highest standards. it must be robust, secure and accurate. the quality of data must be exceptional. its use must not lead to a discriminatory or racist outcome, and it must be subject to human oversight. when artificial intelligence affects people, people must have the final say. let me end by saying again that we must protect both security and fundamental rights, and i am convinced that we can, and this is what our citizens want. i hope that you are ready to work together with me to uphold our values and keep our citizens safe.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. mr the president, colleagues, and i join in thanking our colleague rapporteur vitanov for his work on this subject. congratulations, colleague! i agree with you that the points made in his report about the need to protect fundamental rights in the use of artificial intelligence in the field of criminal law and the use of the police and judicial authorities in criminal matters are useful. as i have already stressed in the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, ai and related technologies would have many benefits in reducing crime rates, combating human trafficking and the sexual exploitation of children, data analysis, etc. but even when we have to praise them, colleagues, we come to paragraph number nine. it highlights that many of the algorithm-based identification technologies currently in use are disproportionately error-prone in identification and classification and thus cause harm to people who are disadvantaged by racism, people belonging to certain ethnic communities, lgbti people and so on and so forth. fellas, is there anyone here suggesting that the ai is a racist, misogynist, and lgbt-hating person? i have heard many times in this hall that some people outside have spoken against this union and tried to destroy it. no, colleagues, that is not necessary! such paragraphs and statements do more than all the enemies of this union. think about it!
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, ai will shape our future. it will change how we work and live, whether it is in health care, agriculture or, yes, law enforcement. the question isn’t whether we like it or not, the question is how europe will deal with this change. and one thing is clear: ai is here to stay. already today, criminals are shifting their operations. whether it is in organised crime, terrorism, child porn, money laundering or human trafficking, it happens online. for me, law enforcement authorities must be able to use the full potential of ai to fight criminals. it will allow them to fight criminality faster, more efficiently and in a more targeted way. and yes, that includes facial recognition in public spaces – on the condition that all fundamental rights are guaranteed and that there is no room for bias. and, colleagues, don’t get me wrong. this does not mean that we want to give police forces carte blanche to do whatever they want. it’s our duty as policymakers to set up a strong legal framework within which they can safely use ai while guaranteeing the safety of our citizens. it’s too easy to argue for moratoria or bans without taking into account the challenges our police officers deal with on the ground. if we really want to be serious about setting up, putting people at the core of trustworthy ai, as we said we would, then it is also about their safety and the benefits ai can bring to better protect ordinary citizens and police officers alike. how do we do that? it’s simple. let’s not get trapped in focusing on certain ai applications and tools, but let us assess each use in its specific context against a set of principles and values, and that is what we should be discussing. proportionality, necessity, limiting the use in time and place, transparent and strong democratic oversight, and prior legal authorisation where necessary. that’s why i think this report falls short of the expectations people have and why my group presented amendments to it. digitalisation of our society is inevitable. we cannot be blind to this new reality. it is our duty, all together here in this house, to find the right balance between the use of new technologies on the one hand and the protection of our fundamental rights on the other hand. we have to remain vigilant, but we should not throw the baby out with the bathwater.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. we believe that there is no place in europe for mass biometric surveillance and that security and the fight against crime must not be at the expense of the fundamental rights of citizens. the identification by biometric data in publicly accessible places risks leading to serious abuses of the right to privacy and other principles underlying our democratic systems. the european privacy ombudsman said this: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections. let us then think about what might happen in places that are not so attentive to the separation of powers or to fundamental freedoms, whether they are states or cities. the risk of abuse is too great. we therefore believe that the exceptions to article 5 on prohibited practices in the proposal for a regulation should be deleted. similarly, predictive techniques for law enforcement activities carry a very serious risk of discrimination, as well as a lack of evidence on their accuracy, undermining one of the fundamental foundations of our democratic systems, namely the presumption of innocence. no human oversight or error-free data sets will be sufficient to ensure that such decisions by ai systems are taken in compliance with constitutional guarantees and fundamental rights of the union, even where these decision-making processes are reversible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the products is not compromised. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the union already has the most advanced data protection laws in the world. it's a model for us, a model that we want to take to the rest of the world, and we can't afford to fall back one millimeter from this setting when we're regulating artificial intelligence. we must also protect the rights of citizens in this area to the full. i think that is the way we can act for a europe that has its own human rights-centred model of artificial intelligence.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, the use of artificial intelligence in law enforcement is a political decision, not a technical one. our duty is to apply our political worldview to determine what are the allowed uses of artificial intelligence and under which conditions. europe is built on a set of values. they constrain the realm of the possible, dictating what we cannot do. and our values also guide our way into the future, dictating what we can and what we should do. what we cannot do is to allow the use of technology to lead to a breach of our values. we must only allow ai technologies to be used with straight safeguards and oversight, and we must ensure that human rights are protected throughout. what we also cannot do is to allow authorities to use technology for mass surveillance, mass social scoring or any type of government control over citizens. we must be doubly cautious in protecting our values when dealing with law enforcement, as law enforcement is the prerogative of the state. on the other hand, what we can – and should – do is to seek to use ai to reduce the biases and discriminations plaguing our society, including in law enforcement. technology is a tool. we should invest in it until it is good enough to serve our values. what we also can and should do is ensure law enforcement is competitive and has the best tools at its disposal to fight crime. fighting crime is also a way to protect our values and should be a top priority for us. we must therefore strengthen the democratic fibre and resilience of our institutions. and tomorrow’s challenges will not come from the tools themselves but from our ability or inability to use them in accordance with our values.
mr president, this report is another brick in the social engineering construct intended in the european union that places marxist ideology over biology and physiology, which, at the end, would lead to chaos. an important topic like domestic violence or child custody, which affects many couples especially now due to the pandemic, was hijacked by this report and transformed into an ideological weapon that is disregarding the eu treaties, the solidarity principle and the biology. firstly, the proposals from this report are violating the eu treaties, which say that according to the subsidiarity principle, the european union has no competence for the development of policies related to family, criminal law, education and healthcare. all of these are prerogatives of the sovereign member states and any intrusion of the institutions into these prerogatives is undermining the foundation of the european union. the report fails to identify and propose real solutions for women and their children faced with domestic violence, but proposes instead redefining norms and terms which lead to more confusion. a woman and her children that are abused do not need a redefinition of terms, but concrete measures to protect and safeguard them – measures which are not mentioned in this report. in conclusion, parliament proved once again that the social engineering construct intended to redefine and redesign the european union is more important than providing concrete solutions to real problems in the european union, like child abuse and domestic violence.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members of parliament for this report. the commission shares many of the views expressed therein. we agree that the mediterranean sea is one of the areas with the greatest biodiversity in the world, but that its current worrying environmental status is seriously endangering not only this biodiversity, but also the very survival of the fishing sector that depends on it. we also share your analysis that the implementation of the new fisheries governance in the mediterranean and the efforts made by the eu to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and the protection of the ecosystem are starting to give positive results. nevertheless, strong efforts need to continue, as 87% of fish stocks in the mediterranean are still overfished. the good health of the stocks is a precondition for the future and profitability of the sector. the equation is very simple: no fish means no fishers. in the mediterranean sea, pollution and climate change have an important impact on the health of the stocks, and therefore it is necessary to tackle both pollution and climate change. however, the scientists have always explained that fishing activities continue to have the biggest impact on the health of mediterranean fish stocks. we therefore need to reduce fishing in the mediterranean and adapt fishing capacity to the existing fishing opportunities. we also need to protect juveniles and spawners, including through marine protected areas, fisheries restricted areas and more selective fishing, to ensure the recovery of the stocks. we catch not only too much fish, but also fish which are too small. in addition, we need to ensure that the rules are strictly respected. our message is zero tolerance of illegal fishing activities. to this end, more efforts are needed to improve the capacity not only of the eu and member states’ authorities but also of third-country authorities to closely monitor the fishing activities all around the sea basin. for the eu, the level playing field across the entire mediterranean is crucial. therefore, all the mediterranean countries have to participate in these efforts. i am very happy that all the mediterranean countries, upon the initiative of the eu, adopted last july a new strategy for the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. this new strategy includes concrete actions to address the challenges that you describe in your report. the strategy is ambitious, and it will facilitate a green transition, support the coastal communities and preserve food security based on solidarity between all mediterranean countries. the eu will bring its financial support to the implementation of the strategy and will work closely with the secretariat of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean in order to ensure the implementation of the strategy. the strategy will also help countries to combat illegal fishing activities through the use of new technologies, through the establishment of inspection schemes and sighting procedures, and the eu will continue, through the european fisheries control agency, and together with the member states, to fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing activities. more particularly, the eu intends to reinforce its operational cooperation with mediterranean countries such as tunisia. in order to ensure the legality of catches, the eu will also continue to monitor the traceability of fisheries products. the eu will table proposals at the next annual session of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean to establish catch certificates for turbot and red coral. i fully agree with the report that marine protected areas, such as the jabuka/pomo pit in the adriatic, are the best tool to protect the juveniles and the seabed. therefore, i encourage both eu member states and third countries within the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean to adopt new fisheries restricted areas and to reinforce the ones in place. in this context, the inclusive approach is a key issue. we need to ensure that fishermen and women, scientists, ngos and national administrations cooperate in order to put in place the marine protected areas and fisheries restricted areas. the role of the fishers is crucial in this transition to the new fisheries governance. they are – and have to be – the guardians of the sea, and their efforts have to be recognised, as they are those who perfectly understand the need to ensure the recovery of the stocks. fishers are ready to participate in co-management and to work on the improved selectivity of fishing gears. however, we need to support them to fully play their role. fishers need adequate financial support through the european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund to achieve our common objective of the sustainability of the stocks. i agree with you that science is crucial. therefore, data collection needs to be improved and solid scientific advice needs to be built. scientists need to exchange their experience and build together a common methodology for the assessment of the stocks. in this context, the state of the environment is also a key driver for the health of fish stocks. the commission will table by the end of the year a proposal for a nature restoration law, which is a deliverable of our biodiversity strategy. i am confident that this proposal will deliver synergies with our efforts to better manage mediterranean fisheries. i believe that, with the common fisheries policy, and with the support of the new tools we will put in place under the eu environmental policies, we have all the necessary tools to reverse overfishing and to rebuild stocks in the mediterranean. the commission looks forward to our continued cooperation to ensure the full implementation of the common fisheries policy in the mediterranean.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 5 october 2021.
the meeting is closed and will resume at 9.00 a.m. tomorrow, tuesday 5 october 2021, with the debate on the report by mr tonino picula on the future of eu-us relations (2021/2038 (ini)) (a9-0250/2021). the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the first item on the agenda is the report by mr picula on the future of eu-us relations (a9-0250/2021). i would like to inform the house that there will be no 'catch the eye' or 'blue card' questions in any debate at this part-session. in addition, as in previous sessions, remote interventions are planned from the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
rapporteur. – mr president, this debate could not be timelier. last november, president biden’s election provided much relief and optimism in the european union. i firmly believe, then as well as today, that we need a renewed and strengthened transatlantic partnership to tackle common challenges. some of them have been well known for decades, but some are part of the newer dynamics of the world. i appreciate the word ‛relations’. it covers all manners of virtues and sins, doesn’t it? my impression is that this has become a more self—aware relationship, with a lot of space for cooperation, and diverging challenges that remain – in trade, data protection and attitudes towards china for example. it is a relationship based on the us primarily doing what fits their national agenda, and sometimes not fully taking into account all those things that matter to the european union. take the long overdue lifting of the travel ban, for example. we may be a newer union, but we are also proud of our national histories and identities. our diversity unites us. our democratic, social and human rights standards are the most developed ones. and we should be proud of our lead to fight climate change. it goes without saying that we should not lose the sentiment about the assistance from the united states to europe’s development, prosperity and successful integration, nor all of the multilateral achievements. during the past 75 years, the transatlantic partnership has stood for freedom, democracy, human rights, the rule of law, trade, economic cooperation and security. the european union and the us have the largest bilateral trade and investment relationship and enjoy the most integrated economic relationship in the world. we should also praise positive developments like the trade and technology council that took place last week.but we must stress in parallel that the european union’s strategic autonomy should be pursued, with improved implementation of european union foreign and defence policy priorities and principles. also, with the european union’s ability to act autonomously, when needed, in pursuing its legitimate interests. moreover, we need to explore areas of convergence and seek to enhance cooperation, better coordination and consultation between the us and the european union to avoid transatlantic tensions such as those that followed the adoption of the trilateral aukus deal or the uncoordinated withdrawal from afghanistan. these events should remind us that the eu needs to catch up with the new reality and redefine our relationship with the us on a more equal footing. this means standing up for our interests whenever needed, but also taking greater responsibility. we must reinforce both: the european union’s autonomy of decision and its autonomy of action, from soft power to smart power. in concrete terms, together with the us, we should work to promote multilateral cooperation for a more equitable and healthier world, fight against inequalities, cooperate better in research and technology development, and promote ecological transformation and the peaceful resolution of conflicts. we have to enhance our parliamentary cooperation, rule-based connectivity strategies, protect and promote democracy and human rights, share best practice examples and better include our citizens in decision making. having said that, without any doubt, the us remains the european union’s closest and most important strategic partner, and i believe that a strategical autonomous union would be the best partner for the united states!
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i believe that we have found common ground with the united states, with the administration of president biden, particularly in trade policy. when the president's trade representative says: 'we are putting workers' rights at the centre of trade policy', that is what we mean. we want to make sure that trade policy also serves the people on the ground and not a few. so there is a common basis. and we also established the trade and technology council on september 29th, a platform where we can exchange on issues like this, where trade policy really benefits people, and where we can also make sure that there is a common approach: for example, on the issue of investment controls, on the issue of foreign subsidies, on the issue of products that are produced by forced labor. all of these are things that we can work together on. but we also all know that in a good relationship, the honeymoon isn't always real. it gets serious when you're in a relationship, you know, when you're arguing about what color is the couch? where's the couch? and in this phase, we are natural. we also have differences with the united states. the question of illegal tariffs on steel products from the european union is still on the agenda. and if we don't find a solution, we'll double our countermeasures by the end of november. i therefore ask the american side to find a compromise, as we did with airbus and boeing. there are other things too. the disputes over the submarine deal certainly did not help to make the relationship more stable. so we have to work on that. but we must also make it clear that we europeans have specific interests. and that's something you can make clear in a good relationship.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, we certainly all agree that the us remains the european union’s closest and most important strategic partner. it is like this and it has to continue being like this. there should be no doubt about that. this year you launch the renewed joint transatlantic agenda, after a very successful european union summit with the us, and there have been strong partnerships and engagement with the us administration, certainly much more, in a better way, than in the previous one. transatlantic partnership is vital and irreplaceable, but we need to place it on a stronger footing. august has been a wake—up call and there are changes in american society that have been in the making for many years that will certainly affect the role of the us in the world. after afghanistan, the us has been sending a clear message about how they want to reorder their priorities, mainly facing china, and we should be ready to adapt to this new situation and shoulder our part of the burden to keep peace and security in the world. i had regular discussions with secretary blinken during the un general assembly (unga) week, and i will travel to washington next week to meet him again. he is in paris today and i will be in washington next week, so our links will be increasingly important and hopefully will deliver. these meetings are important for our ongoing discussions on issues related to the transatlantic agenda that have to be put in the frame of the developments in the world because we have to think about how the 21st century will be. will the 21st century be born on tiananmen or will it be born on the fall of the berlin wall? these two events – so different – mark the different paths of the future, how the future will be. we will be depending on our capacity to strengthen the trans-atlantic relationship in order to defend democracies in the world. i take note of the references in your report to the need to foster greater self—reliance in matters of defence. on this point of view, i’m going to jump to french. il faut reconnaître l’importance stratégique de l’engagement que le président biden a pris avec le président macron lors d’une conversation qui a été courte peut-être, mais sans doute très importante à propos de la région indo-pacifique, y compris dans le cadre stratégique que l’union européenne vient de publier sur cette région du monde. dans le cadre de la lutte contre le terrorisme, les états-unis se sont engagés à renforcer leur soutien aux opérations antiterroristes au sahel menées par les états européens. dans cette communication, les états-unis ont également reconnu l’importance d’une défense européenne plus forte et plus performante, qui contribue positivement à la sécurité transatlantique, en complémentarité avec l’otan. oui, l’espace euroatlantique est au cœur de l’otan. l’otan est l’outil fondamental de notre défense collective. mais la gestion des crises dans le voisinage européen doit nous concerner nous, les européens, en premier lieu. cette communication ouvre la porte à des développements futurs, dont les chefs d’état ou de gouvernement vont discuter ce soir en slovénie et qui seront suivis par la présentation de la boussole stratégique au mois de novembre. these steps will strengthen our collective commitment to the us crisis management and enhance, as the report points out, our instruments and mechanisms. we are working on a new joint eu—nato statement by the end of the year to renew those of 2016 and 2018, but our dialogue with the us is not only in the framework of nato because not all european member states are members of nato and there are many nato members who are not european union member states. so we have to have a direct and complementary relationship and a us—eu strategic dialogue. we discussed with secretary blinken in the un general assembly about how this dialogue and cooperation can be strengthened. we agreed on the need to put in place a system to avoid issues like the one around the aukus pact between australia, the uk and the usa in the future and, as your report recommends, we must also launch a dedicated dialogue on security and defence. certainly, we also call for a closer transatlantic foreign policy coordination and you can rest assured that we will continue to cooperate and partner with the us in key foreign and security policy areas, mainly in front of the development of china, both from the economic, political and military point of view. but, as president biden also said in his united nations speech, we are not willing to restart a new cold war with china. also in the western balkans, i have to say that our cooperation with the us is much better. the recent crisis between kosovo and serbia has been solved thanks to the good work of our special envoy, miroslav lajčák. i have to say that our cooperation with the us envoy has been very positive. we also report on the significance of the transatlantic economic relationship. we had a successful inauguration of the trade and technology council in pittsburgh and it is clear that we now have a framework with the potential to make joint progress on global economic and technological challenges. i think that it is very important to seize this opportunity because the world of tomorrow will be shaped around technological developments. who masters technology will master power, and at that moment we europeans will need to develop our technological capacities much more quickly. this can be better done together with the us, but not without also talking about the issues on which we can disagree. there are some difficult issues: to secure the change of supply in the field of semiconductors, to be sure that we are not going to create in the future an overcapacity, to talk about tariffs, data protection, and artificial intelligence. these are an incredibly broad set of issues that will shape the future and on which we have to engage more with the us. a last word about cop26. we look forward to continuing our close coordination with the us to get every country to do more to fight climate change. yesterday, i was in saudi arabia talking about it. it was sometimes a difficult discussion because we europeans only have eight per cent of global emissions. even if we cancel them tomorrow – zero emissions – the problem would be the same. the remaining 92% would still be there. so we have to work together with the us, especially on the recently announced global methane pledge, because we talk about co2 but there are other gases which also have a strong capacity to destroy the atmosphere, and methane is one of these. this global methane pledge will be another occasion for us to cooperate with the us on climate change. in september, our executive vice—president timmermans and us special presidential envoy for climate kerry co-chaired the second meeting of the high—level climate action group, which is one of the key deliverables of our eu—us summit. finally – and it really is finally – let me underline that the recent announcement on the lifting of travel restrictions, croatia’s access to the visa waiver programme and the launch of the joint covid-19 manufacturing and supply chain taskforce, thanks to the good work of commissioner breton, are also positive developments linked to our joint agenda that will benefit the whole world. because if we, the us and the eu, work together, the world will be vaccinated more quickly. in conclusion, the recommendations that you make in your report are very timely. it is a long report that has a lot of issues in it. our relationship with the us is certainly the stronger pillar, our freedom and prosperity. we have to continue building on it but, at the same time, we have to continue building our autonomy because our interests will not always exactly coincide. this report is very timely. i thank the rapporteurs for that. i thank the members in this debate for their contribution to what they can do on this very important issue.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the european union and the united states share a unique bond based on common values, principles and interests. at the eu—us summit in june this year, the leadership of the two blocks called for a strong transatlantic partnership – a message that we welcome and support in our report that we will vote on this week. however, over the last weeks, we have seen some reality checks that have tested our relations in matters of foreign affairs, security and trade. the european people’s party has proposed to create the transatlantic political council as a platform to improve our communications channels and to avoid unnecessary tensions. i strongly call on members to support this. with the eu—us joint covid response, we commit ourselves as technological leaders and pursue the facilitation of global vaccination platforms. i personally see this approach as the only way to fight vaccine nationalism and inequality. but one thing is clear: the transatlantic partnership would not be complete if there is no clear cooperation on foreign and security affairs. the transatlantic alliance remains fundamental for the security and the stability of the european continent, and nato is the foundation of our collective defence. in the search of a middle way between european strategic autonomy and total reliance on our transatlantic partners, we need to grow together into new relations that we will be more beneficial for our mutual peace and security missions based on our experiences in the western balkans and the sahel. on a personal note: invest in the balkans! they have played a really great role, they still are, and will in the future. to conclude, i would like to highlight the crucial role that parliamentary diplomacy can play in building bridges with our close and important transatlantic ally. let this relationship grow based on our good communication and coordination as the anchors of stability in this volatile world. finally, i would like to say thank you for the granting of the visa waiver for croatia. all those families that helped build america are going to appreciate it as well!
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. the world needs all democratic forces to stand together, and the eu must therefore keep close to all those who share our values. this is no time to push anyone away. the eu and the us share a common history and values, and there is no doubt that we also share a common future. that is why the united states is and must be the eu's closest trading partner, partner and security ally. but the us is not the only ally of the eu, nor should it be. as the chairman of the japanese delegation, i must stress the importance of the eu also strengthening its ties with all our democratic allies throughout the world, including in the pacific. we must maintain close contact with all those who share our struggle for democracy, fundamental human rights and multilateral cooperation. with increased european strategic autonomy, we can ensure that the eu becomes a strong and equal partner with everyone, including the united states. the two go hand in hand, they are not opposites.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, this very comprehensive report speaks to europeans and american friends alike about our privileged relationship and about the benefits of building a world shaped by the values that unite us. as shadow rapporteur, i fully share its optimism and its level of ambition. i am a firm believer that a technological partnership between the eu and the us based on shared democratic values is a very solid foundation on which to consolidate our transatlantic future, and our report welcomes the start of the trade and technology council (ttc), its first meeting in pittsburgh and the commitments outlined in the inaugural joint statement, highlighting the key areas of potential tech cooperation: regulatory convergence, joint work on standards, security of supply chains – this is the direction that we need to take. but beyond the many areas of cooperation highlighted in the report, i also wish to acknowledge the elephant in the room, because friends and allies are honest with one another. first, and in the light of recent events, our american friends need to understand that trusted partners and allies consult one another before making strategic decisions. the world is no longer unipolar or bipolar, and acting alone is no longer a recipe for success. our american friends should also understand that in their contest with china, europe can be a powerful ally. but europe does not seem to take sides out of inertia or reflex. europe has its strategic priorities, and they need to be factored into our transatlantic dialogue as well. they need to nurture our relationship and alliance. equally important, our american friends need to understand that our objective of strategic autonomy signifies a europe that is strong and capable, equipped politically and technologically to defend itself, and able to look out for its priorities in its own backyard and worldwide. this is in our common interest on both sides of the atlantic. but the elephant, of course, has two sides. we in europe also need to understand a few things and, most importantly, on these we can actually do something. we europeans need to understand that we are very slow to act, if we do act at all, and we speak with 27 different voices on the world scene. we need qualified—majority voting in our foreign policy and we need to reform the way we make strategic decisions. we need to deliver a united european voice if we want to be consulted. we also need to acknowledge that there is no european strategic autonomy until this autonomy has a positive impact for all 500 million of our citizens in all of our 27 member states. we need one another and we both need to do our part.
the respected chairman! our countries in the european union have different historical experiences and geopolitical views, and there are countries that have regained their freedom largely because of the desire of washington to dismantle the soviet union, and there are countries in the european union that have different geopolitical views and different histories. nato is what works, and any movement to erode it also weakens the european union geopolitically, because strategic autonomy can be established at best several decades from now into the future. and at a time when there is talk of a new possible cold war with china or a failure in the pacific, at the same time russia is testing, testing hybrid weapons right in the european union, and we as the european union are not reacting adequately to this step. so we have no other partner with historical roots, with historical values, like the united states, and we have to overcome all the barriers that we have to trade, to technology, that we have to deal with in our relationship with the united states. thank you very much.
mr president, the us is without any doubt one of the closest allies of the eu, and we don’t want to jeopardise this relationship. france tried to sell submarines to australia, but it didn’t work out. i feel sorry for the french, but that doesn’t mean that we should all get upset. australia needs allies to cope with the chinese. that is understandable and completely acceptable. there is no need for an eu defence force. we still depend on nato, and that’s a good thing. the eu should not be used for political appetites and power play. the eu was created on the premise of bringing about peace in the continent. history shows that militarisation of europe on its own leads to conflict and bloodshed. we don’t want to go that way.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur, mr picula, for his report. the relationship with the united states is the most important strategic partnership for the european union, and we are at a very opportune moment to strengthen it following president trump's departure. we now have a less nationalistic administration in washington and one more willing to work with europe. the united states remains the indispensable power, at least for the european union, although a certain retreat in its foreign policy and its prioritization of asia has been noticeable since obama. i welcome the recent launch of the trade and technology council, but i also believe that a transatlantic political council is essential to strengthen coordination in foreign and security policy. recent events, such as afghanistan and the aukus agreement, demonstrate the need for better dialogue and consultation. we have tabled an amendment to this effect, amendment no 9, which i hope the house will support, because it reflects its traditional position. we need new institutional mechanisms to avoid unilateralism and lack of coordination. i think that coordinated action by the european union and the united states is particularly necessary in defence of democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law in countries such as venezuela and nicaragua.
mr president, with the challenges of today, it is so crucial that we work together with other democracies. it gives us more strength to defend our values and our safety. climate change, technological transformation and international trade tensions are just few of the policy areas where we cannot afford to have disputes, but seek full cooperation across the atlantic. after some rough years, the trade and technology council (ttc), held last week in pittsburgh, is an extremely promising step towards deepening trans-atlantic resolve on these important issues. if the ttc succeeds in finding a way to fight together for human—centric ai, like emerging disruptive technologies, to find good common standards, to set and speed up markets for green technology to cut emissions and to solve the climate crisis, we will not only have the brussels effect, but we can have, even better, a trans-atlantic effect for climate, for democracy, for human rights and for decent work. i also welcome mr biden’s decisions to take the usa back to international organisations. that is very much needed. as the vice-chair for the transatlantic legislative dialogue (tld), i welcome here what is written in the report: to call for the establishment of a subcommittee on tech and trade within the tld to complement the executive part of the ttc and to exercise democratic oversight in the european parliament. we are ready to do that.
mr president, colleagues, i condemn the us-bashing coming from some parts of this house on this floor. the united states has no better friend in the world than the european union. we have built a relationship based on history, on values and on interests, but now it’s time for the big game. we can no longer think regionally. nato is the foundation for our collective defence, but america also needs a strong europe that has strong military interoperability and mobility. a tank cannot take a month to travel from constanța to riga, and then we call that mobility. that is a lame duck for me, and that is not what america needs or what europe needs. i support what radosław sikorski said, namely that we make a useful ally when we are a strong ally. only together can we respond to russia’s threats in our region, in ukraine, in georgia and in moldova. in the event of a massive global outage like the one we saw yesterday affecting social media, how do we fight fake news if not together? we might not be america’s nearest partner, but we are for sure their closest.
mr president, mr high representative, the report and resolution we are about to adopt create the conditions for a real strategic partnership for the 21st century between the union and the united states, generating a strong integration of the economies on both sides of the atlantic. within this partnership, the european union is obliged to increase its contribution to nato's defence capability. the union is partnering with the united states with a strong energy dependence on the russian federation, which entails economic, social and political risks. to mitigate these risks, we need to develop alternative energy supply systems, such as: investments in the development of the southern gas corridor from the caspian and middle east, the recognition of nuclear energy as a clean energy, massive investments in the production of electricity from renewable sources and, not least, the massive import of liquefied gas.
mr president, the united states has always been the european union’s closest and most important strategic partner, and so it should remain. however, looking to the developments on the global stage in the last decade, it is clear that the eu is lagging behind in policy areas that represent a priority for the us. the australia–united kingdom–united states (aukus) deal and the abrupt us withdrawal from afghanistan must be a wake-up call for the eu to place this partnership on a new footing. we must be aware that america will always place its own interests at the forefront. the us security pledge makes us dependent on washington to act. the rhetoric may have changed with the new administration, yet its intensifying focus on its rivalry with china has not. as strange as it sounds, the eu needs to become more egoistic. the us will accept us as a partner on the global stage if we are able to defend our own economic and trade interests, if we are able to develop a robust eu defence policy. filling up this partnership with content depends today more on us than on our transatlantic partners.
mr president, it’s been one year since brave belarusians took to the streets to demand democracy for their country, and the dictator is still there. he and his illegitimate regime keep suffocating the democratic revolution, whilst our response so far has failed to make much of a difference. what is happening at the border between the eu and belarus is completely unacceptable: the instrumentalisation of migrants by lukashenko’s regime, but also the response of some member states, particularly poland. it should not overshadow the fact that in europe, in our immediate vicinity, there are 700 political prisoners in jail for defending democracy and freedom, that human rights defenders, opposition politicians, civil society, independent journalists keep being systematically repressed, and that people live in fear and under oppression. the question is: have we, the eu, done everything possible? to be effective, sanctions must target the economically crucial sectors and companies supporting lukashenko. the international approach must be consistent. is it reasonable that while we adopt more sanctions, the imf grants lukashenko’s regime usd 1 billion? stepping up our efforts may not immediately achieve the goal of a democratic belarus, but it will show the belarusian people that the eu, with its entire means, stands with them and with their struggle for freedom and democracy.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! in one of his novels, ernest hemingway quoted a 16th-century english poet as his motto, who wrote: "ask not for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee". what's happening in belarus is part of a larger geopolitical plan. russia is behind this. we have to be aware of that. i thank all those mps who spoke before me and who will probably speak after me for human rights in belarus, for freedom in a european country, in a country that is part of european culture. this is very important. but we, as politicians, have to see this in a broader geopolitical context, because really in the shadow of what's going on there, in the shadow of all of this, is mr. putin, the russian federation, the kremlin. it's part of the fight against the west, and therefore the fight against us, against our values. it's worth remembering.
mr president, the problems of migration in europe are getting out of hand. lithuania and poland are facing an influx of asylum seekers, who were dropped by lukashenko. the netherlands also has a severe shortage of affordable housing, but there too, on average, 2,500 applicants knock on the door each week. the situation in greece is still unresolved after so many years. it is our responsibility to solve this problem in europe, and that means we have to do things differently, because the way we are doing things now is simply not working. we must counteract the growth of new flows of refugees by taking a hard line on regimes like belarus, which are causing flows of refugees. we must work to protect our common borders. we must organise reception in the region and, finally, the eu must organise the processing of asylum applications outside the eu. the entry into europe without valid documents can then be effectively blocked. it's time to act! (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, dear colleagues, the lukashenko regime just prevented my arrested innocent friend pavel sieviaryniec from attending his father’s funeral. my sincere condolences to his family. such behaviour shows the evenly stalinist and fascist character of this regime. we must keep the belarus issue on the agenda. personal sanctions must be extended to all involved in the persecution of political prisoners. they must be more effectively implemented and extended to private economic profiteers and those state industries that create income for the regime. and let’s add those russian entities that buy industries in belarus as we speak. what we need is to strengthen the legitimacy of the opposition. i wish that the commission prepares the suggested conference on the future of belarus, which would involve the leaders of the opposition and civil society to discuss how to implement the pledged financial package for a democratic belarus once it is emerging. what we do not need is ambassadors from member states who refuse to meet svetlana tsikhanouskaya, and i wonder whether that is an act of appeasement rather or of personal convenience not to be declared persona non grata. in both cases, not acceptable. (exclamation in bielarusian)
mr president, commissioner johansson, the tremendous challenges posed by belarus's european union neighbourhood under the infamous lukashenko regime are not, of course, limited to migration issues. but it is impossible to ignore, from the perspective of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, the rights of potential asylum seekers at the external borders of the union, which include lithuania, latvia and, of course, poland. and it is crucial to ensure transparency and oversight in all border operations, particularly those that call into question the effectiveness of the common european asylum system. the commission is the guardian of the treaties and must ensure that asylum procedures and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union are also observed and respected by the european union agencies, including frontex operations. and of course it would be good if the european union's asylum agency were also involved, because that is why we have adopted the regulation that enlarges it to monitor compliance with the common european asylum system at all the external borders of the union, including those borders that touch on the infamous lukashenko regime.
mr president, does anyone still remember the outrage we felt when we heard about the hijacking of a ryanair flight? can anyone still relate to the terror a young freedom fighter must have felt when he found out that the plane he was on would be landing in minsk? our foreign affairs agenda moves on but, unfortunately, for those imprisoned in belarus the terror is still real. the torture has been going on for months or even years, and justice has not been served. we cannot turn a blind eye. our lack of action or reaction is what gives dictators of the world, near or far, the audacity to continue attacking the eu and the values it stands for with all the means available at their disposal. the cynical use of migrants as a political weapon is only one example of what such means can be. we should therefore continue to hit the belarusian regime where it hurts the most and add more sanctions, better targeting the economic interests of those oligarchs propping up lukashenko. moreover, we should not forget the puppeteer behind lukashenko. we should specifically name the kremlin regime an accomplice in this clear breach of international law. as we talk about strategic autonomy and being geopolitical on the world scene, we have a responsibility to protect those that share, fight and suffer for the very values we promote as europeans, particularly in our immediate neighbourhood. we must help and support the belarusian people, we should help journalists and activists, who are being silenced by the regime, and we should do so both financially and politically.
mr president, for over a year we have been counting the deaths, political prisoners, torture, disappearances and exiles from europe's last dictatorship, and the sanctions against belarus are having little effect: the independent press has disappeared, human rights are deteriorating, europe is the target of a hybrid threat, and under putin's pulpit, lukashenko is preparing his new constitution, which will make him master over 9 million people. a different strategy is urgently needed, because this is not a conflict between states, but between two worlds, one of which is anachronistic. a new package of sanctions against lukashenko is needed, but this time we must act together with our allies, coordinated, concerted, simultaneously and not only the minsk regime must be sanctioned, but also its main sponsor, also anachronistic, who is helping lukashenko cover his losses caused now by disparate measures. it is imperative that the european union take up this mission, not only because it has a dangerous enemy on its border, but because for more than a year now millions of people have been putting their lives on the line, waiting for real help from the world they want to be a part of.
madam president, madam commissioner, please do something! it's getting worse, a doctor told me today from my home in sibiu. the government of romania, which was defeated by a vote of no confidence, has requested emergency assistance from the european union, because today we have 15,000 new cases and 254 deaths, an absolute record. unfortunately, the authorities only ask for help when it's too late, because they don't want to appear weak and incompetent in front of the people. we have already asked for this help here in the european parliament a week ago. i hope with all my heart that european solidarity will work this time too. i hope that all of you, all europeans, will help romania, as romanian doctors helped italy in the first wave of the crisis in 2020. we can only rejoice for hera and support it wholeheartedly, but for romania it is too late now. we need the european institutions to be present at home, in the hospitals at home, in constanta, in sibiu, because romania is losing air at this moment and we need a lot, a lot of help.
madam president, commissioner, i congratulate the rapporteur for presenting an accurate picture of the cybersecurity situation. but just look back to yesterday, when virtually all of us saw what it means to have a cyber crisis, when the big players in the market are facing security or management issues. the entire globe has been affected. that is why i believe it is essential that the commission takes all the steps to make the cyber security competence centre, which was set up in my own country, bucharest, functional, because we need the antibodies to deal with these challenges that exist. there are not just interest groups that pursue political, economic or social objectives through which they cyber-attack our states. what's worse is that there are states that are using technology to attack other states, and that's where we are most vulnerable, and we need to act more decisively to defend our citizens, to defend our institutions, to defend our democracy.
madam president, commissioner, i think we have a code red for disinformation in the european union and we need to wake up, because i recommend something that i do regularly: read the press magazine of the russian federation every week and you will see how a state constantly encourages disinformation and distortion of reality. this is not just about media institutions, this is not just about platforms, this is about politicians who are encouraging hate speech and trying to present the european union differently than we know it. and it is these realities that compel us to act with great responsibility and courage to further the objectives for which the european union was created. and that's why i think we need modern tools to combat misinformation.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to welcome the discussions on the energy crisis on the sidelines of the extraordinary european council meeting in slovenia last night. energy prices are an undeniable global phenomenon today, which is why, for me and many citizens, some ideologies have lost. we now know that the european energy market is influenced by the rise in green certificate prices and the rise in natural gas prices which is in turn influenced by the policies of the russian federation. in the context of the european taxonomy debates, i support investing in technologies that produce nuclear energy and natural gas. and today the european commission should facilitate investments in natural gas and avoid creating additional barriers. as a solution for the near future, it is imperative to exploit the natural gas from the black sea, from which one billion cubic meters can be extracted per year. knowing the negative impact of the increase in energy prices, it is imperative and urgent that the european commission and the member states identify solutions to protect the population affected by this increase and to support the economic environment. that is why i expect a serious reaction from you next week, commissioner.
madam chair, the discussion of the rising energy prices is urgent because it is an issue that directly affects many families. energy prices have risen by more than 100% this year, and citizens are feeling the price shock on a daily basis when going to gas stations, when doing construction work at home or when going to buy basic groceries, which have risen by up to 30%. we need to take urgent targeted action to protect socially vulnerable groups and the economy, without compromising the european union's ambition to become a climate neutral continent by 2050. in order to ensure affordable energy use for citizens and to ensure the competitiveness of our businesses, we need to reduce our dependence on imports and increase energy efficiency and use national recovery plans to increase investment in renewable energy sources. and finally, for the energy transition to be successful, it must be socially sensitive and equitable. we're taking that into account.
vice-president barley, commissioner simson, minister logar, the increase in energy prices at the beginning of the cold season is alarming and most of you, honourable members, have said so in your discussions today. it's all the more alarming that energy efficiency and renewable energy use are so far from where we want them to be. in the short term, we can solve the problem of the few million people who will not be able to pay their energy bills this winter by subsidising them, but in the medium and long term, we need to come up with strong strategies and action plans that give due importance to domestic energy production, so as to achieve the greatest possible energy independence of households throughout the european union. do we have the financial resources in the multiannual financial plan? do we have the desire to make the energy sector green and have demonstrated that in 2019 in this room? all that remains is the political will to finance the effort of all european union citizens to produce, use and even supply energy from renewable sources.
madam president, commissioner, we are seeing an increase in the price of energy due to market instability. why did we end up here? the answer must be sought in our own decisions, objectives and proposals communicated to the market, industry and the public, without an analysis of the effects, as for example: emission allowances are traded on a free but speculative market, which the commission refuses to regulate. also, the commission's refusal to accept nuclear energy as clean energy is what is both hard to understand and hard to accept. we are rushing to announce possible transport certificates without knowing whether we have the means to replace heavy fuel propulsion in ships and diesel in heavy-duty trucks. so we need realistic targets and we need to keep gas and nuclear until we have green energy to replace them. renewable energy is a necessary goal, but if we just declare it without having it, it will result in market instability, an increase in energy poverty and, implicitly, a rejection of the green deal by the population, and perhaps a highly effective measure would be for mr timmermans to deal with another area than the green deal.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my country is now in the midst of a 'perfect storm'. the health and energy crises have triggered a political crisis and, more importantly, an unprecedented social crisis. overnight, millions of romanians received energy bills of 10-20 and in some hallucinatory cases 100 times higher. many will find themselves in the inhuman situation of choosing between food and paying the bill. this is unacceptable, because unlike the pandemic, the energy transition to meet the green deal targets was announced, and the commission had solemnly promised citizens that it was not they who would pay the price of change, but companies, and yet people are paying hard. as this price explosion can only be partly explained by the rise in the price of carbon credits - the rest is speculation by entities inside and outside the european union - i therefore ask the european commission to urgently find the solution to redress the situation, but not a solution that rewards speculators, but a real one, that saves millions of europeans from poverty and hunger, and the union from a wave of social turbulence and euroscepticism.
in writing. the european union has been facing its biggest energy crisis in recent years, due to the skyrocketing prices of commercial natural gas and electricity. the phenomenon affects almost all citizens in most member states, due to rising district heating prices and the upcoming heating season. responsible action is needed, with a focus on three elements: analysing the situation, identifying those responsible and developing good solutions. the situation is desperate. the price of natural gas futures on the metered gas exchange increased by more than 10% during the european parliament debate alone. the european union is expecting the start of the heating season with low gas storage levels and record energy prices. the left-liberal parties and the european commission have a huge responsibility in creating the conditions for the current crisis. in recent years, the left has turned energy policy into a debate, pushing common sense to the background. his ideology is currently causing an explosion of recessionary costs in the union, which will lead to economic stagnation in the near future. and the commission has added to the gravity of the situation with a series of misguided policies and an overly ambitious climate package. action by national governments can help to resolve the situation. in the face of brussels' passivity in the crisis, some member states have taken action. the consistent policy of austerity pursued by hungary is a good practice for all, as it is the best means of keeping consumer prices low.
in writing. what is happening these days shows that the energy market cannot be liberalised like any other market. energy companies wanted to make a profit now, not after the "get ready for 55" package of laws is implemented. the energy market needs to be regulated. energy is not a luxury, heating homes is not a luxury. it's a basic right. it is the responsibility of each european government and the eu to ensure that every citizen can heat their home at reasonable prices. beyond that, we need to put more reason into the green deal. the commission has to be open to the use of gas and nuclear energy, since we cannot meet even half of our consumption needs from renewable or green sources. otherwise, crises like this one will happen again. the black sea alone can extract 1 billion cubic meters of gas a year. until we have other green energy sources available, the gas must be exploited. yes, we should have common european gas storage and joint purchasing so that we can negotiate better prices. but before it is too late, i ask the european commission once again to answer the questions i have also put to it in writing, namely: - what are the consequences of the green transition for jobs; - what the consequences of the green transition are for the right to individual mobility; - what the consequences of the green transition are for the competitiveness of european companies; - what the energy needs will be in 2050, from which sources we will cover them and what the costs will be.
in writing. i welcome today's european commission proposals to support those affected by higher energy prices, in particular emergency income support for energy-poor consumers, temporary reductions in duties and taxes for vulnerable consumers, and support for businesses and industries, in line with eu state aid rules. however, i would like to stress that member states should be able to use the unused european funds from the 2014-2020 period, in addition to the eu ets allowance funds, for capping and subsidising energy prices, under the n+3 rule. this is vital for successfully overcoming the energy crisis in the less developed european states. in addition, they support the creation of a common eu gas purchasing and storage platform. this instrument would allow us to buy gas at competitive prices and to build up reserves, including reserves for emergencies such as the one we are in.
in writing. addressing rising energy prices for businesses and consumers is particularly important in the time of economic recovery after the covid-19 crisis. the green deal proposals are crucial, especially in the long term. it is necessary to focus on renewable sources and strengthen the eu single market by increasing energy efficiency. the interim solution from the european commission will offer direct payments to consumers and shift charges to general taxes and provide rebates for smes to reduce the social impact of energy poverty. the commission's priority is to ensure a transparent and fair gas market, while investing in energy storage to prevent energy crises and dependence on gas.
in writing. the sharp rise in energy prices is a matter of great concern. already, europe's gas supplies and reserves are in short supply, but winter is coming and we are facing a severe energy crisis. first, the security of energy supply must be guaranteed and second, the consumer must be guaranteed an affordable price, since astronomical energy prices have a devastating effect on both the private consumer and industry. if supply is significantly below demand, energy prices rise sharply. i would remind you that in the course of the turning of the grass, we must not stigmatize or dismantle too quickly the existing controlled energy sources. otherwise, supply will again fall far short of demand and we will again be in an energy and price crisis. the current situation has been influenced by several factors, such as the lack of availability of renewable energy and the lower than expected gas supply from russia. we certainly need to reduce europe's dependence on russian gas, because in the current situation, russia's influence on the whole of europe's energy consumption is criminal. russia has used energy as a political weapon in the past, for example against ukraine, and there is no reason to exclude that the same fate may befall europe. already, it is suspected that russia has been supplying less gas to europe than expected precisely to push for faster entry into service of the nord stream 2 pipeline. the situation in the energy sector needs to be brought under control as a matter of urgency, as rising energy prices will also lead to overall inflation, which in turn threatens the european economy as a whole. thank you.
in writing. mr president, in recent months we have seen a worrying rise in electricity prices in the european union, especially for individual consumers. the price of heating in apartments is also rising, with an increase of 33% across the eu in september this year, as are the wholesale prices of natural gas. this is true for my country, lithuania. these negative trends are clearly dangerous for the economy and will increase the prices of goods and services, as they are directly affected by energy prices. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. remember, it is already very large, affecting 11% of the eu population. the seriousness of this phenomenon is shown by the very definition which defines energy poverty as a situation where a household or an individual is unable to access the basic energy services that ensure a decent standard of living. in view of the rising energy prices, the union must therefore implement an aid scheme to compensate people for the difference between the old and new energy prices. it's like the support mechanism that was implemented in response to the covid crisis. better monitoring of the problem at member state level should also be initiated through the development of integrated national energy plans based on in-depth market analysis and forecasts of energy and raw material consumption and prices.
in writing. i regret that we had to come to an energy crisis to discuss the issue of eu gas supply, given that for more than half a year the level of storage has been at an alarming level compared to the average of recent years. i am afraid we will also have to see the use of energy supply as a lever to realise the danger of energy dependence and to understand that we need, as a matter of priority, to exploit all the resources available in the eu and to diversify sources of supply. unfortunately, the explosion in energy prices and the prospect of winter shortages show us how unrealistic the energy union project and the european energy security strategy are. the energy poverty that increasing numbers of european citizens are suffering is a sad irony of the present replica of the hydrogen-fuelled dreams... in this serious context, i call on the commission and the council to act more coordinatedly, firmly and swiftly than they usually do in order to provide concrete support to citizens and to identify solutions to the energy crisis, which is unfortunately only at an early stage. let us exploit all the natural resources we have and break out of the captivity of the single source of imports!
in writing. energy prices have risen significantly in recent weeks and there are few european households that have not felt this. a large number of consumers are in a vulnerable situation. the most vulnerable are the families in need, but there is no sector that will not be affected by the price increase. the increase in energy prices leads to an increase in consumer prices, including food prices. member states do not wait for the eu solution, and in several member states governments have decided to help households. romania followed suit when it adopted the law on consumers at risk in september, which allows 500,000 households to receive subsidies to cover the costs of electricity, natural gas and heat. my organization, the rmdsz, has proposed this type of support for companies in need. in the future, sensible solutions are needed to avoid the present and similar pan-european crises. it is up to the commission to propose a solution, a european approach that, among other things, takes into account the diversification of energy sources and emphasises european clean energy, effectively contributes to climate protection and at the same time avoids market pressures. a functioning eu energy policy requires taking account of the specificities of the member states, regional differences and agreements with third-country partners.
madam president, the most important strength of europe is not the millions of euros in its budgets. it’s the millions of people defining every moment of its past, present and future. it’s about the values that we are sharing. the recovery and resilience facility reflects the strengths of europe. it was envisaged by the european parliament as the most important tool the european union has to offer in order to show that our citizens, their recovery, their wellbeing represent a priority for us. our citizens never must be left in fear or deprivation, otherwise their insecurity and uncertain future will be exploited by politicians who threaten our democratic values by populist and harmful messages, from extreme left to the extreme right. by people who are irresponsibly playing with the future of citizens, who have all the right to see their health, educational and public administration systems becoming more resilient, to benefit from green transport and digital infrastructure, from training and skills to the labour market. this is what the rrf money has been conceived for. this is actually conceived in a particular article. as a co—rapporteur, i remember that vividly in article 19(c) (j), where the commission assessment is clear, whether the arrangements proposed by the member state concerned are expected to prevent, detect and correct corruption, fraud and conflict of interest. they are not the resources in the rrf at the government’s discretion for use for personal interest, and they will not enter into party leaders’ pockets for propaganda purposes. hungarian and polish citizens need the recovery and resilience facility, and their governments must respect the principle of transparency, of tackling corruption and fraud, because these principles are at the core of the rrf, and they are non-negotiable for the european parliament.
i can answer your question by saying that the connecting europe express has just arrived in strasbourg and i was able to welcome it to our house.
mr president, on my way to work this morning, i crossed the river rhine on the europabrücke. it’s a project that is co—financed by interreg, using our european funds. if our cross—border mechanism had been in place, it would have been open much earlier because, according to the expectations of local authorities and the european institutions, the cross—border mechanism would cut 50% of the administrative burden that the authorities are facing at the moment. i have had no explanation, neither for myself nor for my voters, as to why this crucial regulation is taking the council so long. so i call on the slovenian presidency to reopen the negotiations because, exactly two years ago, we voted to start negotiations, and nothing has happened. two years. two years in which many projects could have been started, finished and already in place to be used by our citizens. the reason for all regulations and funds are to serve people. when we achieve that, we do not need many arguments to convince our voters that europe is the future. so let’s reopen the negotiations and close them as soon as possible.
mr president, mr minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. in a european union which seeks the development of all its regions and the well-being of all its citizens, crossborder cooperation is a necessity. the temporary closure of borders between member states - such as between my country, romania, or your country, slovenia, and hungary or austria - and travel bans for border crossers due to the pandemic have further highlighted the interdependence of border regions and the importance of a cross-border cooperation mechanism. the european union needs all the resources, efforts and will to return to a prosperous life and a prosperous economy after the challenges posed by the pandemic. this mechanism must now be completed more than ever to allow for better cooperation and easier implementation of projects and development of border regions. mr logar, our citizens, the citizens of europe, need this. it's a need, not a wish.
author. – mr president, myanmar is not in the news every day. for a few weeks after the military coup, there was strong interest and world indignation when witnessing the atrocities committed by the new regime. colleagues, our role today is to send a very clear signal to the world, especially the states in the regions and international organisations. the truth is that myanmar (burma) is the stage of one of the world’s longest ongoing civil wars. the military junta’s rule from 1962 until 2011 was marked by the most brutal crimes and human rights abuses. one decade ago, the hope with which the burmese and the world greeted the rise of aung san suu kyi to power proved to be misplaced. her rule was also marked by continued abuse and severe persecution of smaller ethnic and religious groups. unfortunately, in recent months, things have turned even worse under military rule, in such a short time. since the coup, more than 1 100 people have been killed, over 8 000 people arrested, and over 300 people have been sentenced, a number of them to death, including children, with others dying in custody or being subject to torture. this year alone, over 200 000 people have been internally displaced, while over 3 000 000 are in need of humanitarian aid. the rohingya has been the most severely impacted ethnic group over the past seven decades. the situation of other ethnic and religious communities is no better. they are the subject of direct attacks by the army or attacks by the main population that are sanctioned or even encouraged by the army. as a christian and democratic group, we witnessed with horror the human rights abuses in kachin and northern shan states, where the majority of christians live and where churches have recently been raided, priests and pastors have been arrested, and military troops have set up camps in church compounds. one of the most recent examples of christian persecution is the murder, three weeks ago, of a 31—year—old pastor, cung biak hum, in chin state, who was shot dead as he tried to extinguish the blaze from a house fire caused by military artillery. such terrible events pose the risk of an even greater escalation of violence and a larger humanitarian emergency. the recognition of the national unity government by the un general assembly as the legitimate representative of the will of the people would be a first step in restoring the basic principles of democracy. should the elected government be restored, much more sustained effort would be needed to transition to a true democracy and a tolerant society in myanmar. as stated in the resolution, we must, therefore, use all the eu, un, asean and other international means at our disposal to avoid the loss of innocent women’s, men’s and children’s lives, and to ensure that everyone in myanmar can enjoy the right to their identity and belief without fear of persecution.
mr president, well seven months have passed since i last addressed this plenary on the human rights situation in myanmar, and sadly, here we are again. we watched in horror as the military junta staged a coup and ruthlessly set the clock back by 15 years. since then, hundreds of thousands of civilians have been displaced due to fighting and the army’s brutal campaign. political opposition, peaceful protesters are in prison being tortured and the already persecuted rohingya and other religious minorities continue to be targeted. europe’s message today must be loud and clear. we stand firmly with the people of myanmar in their struggle for democracy. we condemn the abuses by the military regime. we demand the release of all political prisoners, and we call for justice – that all those responsible for the crimes be held accountable. and we call for action, action from the european side to extend the eu sanctions. let’s show that europe stands firm by myanmar.
mr president, since 2013 the european union has, politically and financially, supported myanmar’s process towards democratic transition. regrettably, since february’s coup, the situation has been extremely aggravating. murders, arbitrary detentions, forced displacements and the use of collective punishment, the violation of freedom of religion and the increased oppression of christians are but a few examples of the abrupt deterioration of the political climate in the country. we cannot remain idle. this is why i am calling on the council to keep imposing targeted and robust sanctions, while ensuring that these do not harm the people of myanmar. the international community must relentlessly condemn countries backing the junta militarily and economically and must continue to take additional action to help myanmar citizens fighting for democracy.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, eight months since the coup which unravelled myanmar’s democratisation steps, the military remains entrenched in power. the situation remains of utmost concern. the eu condemns the overthrow of the legitimately-elected civilian government and the extreme violence against civilians. we call on the junta to respect the will of the people expressed in the november 2020 election, restore power to the elected government and respect the rule of law. the latest report of the office of the un high commissioner for human rights paints a grim picture, describing the situation as a human rights catastrophe that shows no signs of abating. ongoing violent repression, systematic and targeted killings, arbitrary detentions and ill treatment of detainees must stop. all those arbitrarily detained must be immediately and unconditionally released. freedom of expression, of association and assembly, as well as access to information, must be guaranteed. there can be no impunity. alleged violations of human rights and humanitarian law must be investigated. we note the assessment of the office of the un high commissioner for human rights that some of these may constitute war crimes or crimes against humanity. the eu continues to support the independent investigative mechanism for myanmar and the international criminal court to ensure accountability. the eu also calls on the armed forces to provide the office of the un high commissioner for human rights full, unhindered and immediate access to the international committee of the red cross to detainees. the situation of the rohingya and other minorities in myanmar remains extremely worrying. the current crisis further exacerbates their plight. our policy response is robust and coordinated with like-minded partners. we have imposed three rounds of sanctions against the military and their interests, withheld or reoriented development assistance and provided humanitarian support. the eu supports the efforts of the asian special envoy for myanmar to engage all stakeholders. it is high time that the military grants him access ahead of the asian summit on 26 october. the eu has led resolutions at the un human rights council and general assembly condemning violations of human rights and will keep calling for the end of all acts of violence.
the european union, and not just the european parliament, has no reason to be timid or cautious about kigali after the verdict in the trial of rusesabagina and the punishment that has been imposed on him. the trial in no way passes the test of international law, and the sentence imposed only adds to the injustice. the way in which rusesabagina was arrested alone would actually justify a strong and very principled reaction from the union. the silence of many member states and of the edeo is striking in this dossier. fortunately, the americans and the british did express their condemnation of the way in which rusesabagina has been and is being treated. although it is a politically sensitive issue, we still owe it to ourselves to stand up for the values we so much say we cherish and for the protection of our own citizens. rusesabagina is a european citizen! it deserves all the support that the union has in the world for the promotion and safeguarding of values which we are convinced are of a universal character. the export of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms is a basic element of our foreign and security policy. the principles of the separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary are also at issue here, as are guarantees of political pluralism and critical opposition. i therefore call on all those responsible for eu policy to do everything possible to secure the release of mr rusesabagina. rwanda attaches great importance to good relations with the union and its member states, and i cannot imagine kigali not being moved to rationality in this sensitive matter. the union, for its part, attaches great importance to the values mentioned, and i cannot imagine that we would care less about them in our relations with rwanda.
author. – mr president, today we are voting, for the second time in less than a year, on a resolution on the case of paul rusesabagina. in the first resolution, last february, the european parliament denounced his abduction and subsequent torture. we called for an international investigation into his transfer and arrest and for rwanda to guarantee that mr rusesabagina would receive a fair trial. well colleagues, today we stand here again because he didn’t receive that fair trial. this was confirmed by the belgian foreign ministry, the us state department and numerous organisations that monitored this trial. paul rusesabagina was forced to make confessions under torture and isolation without the presence of a lawyer, and he only received access to his court documents three days before the start of the trial, a document of more than 3 000 pages. his lawyers and family were intimidated and his co—defendants were put under pressure to testify against him. key witnesses were not cross-examined or put under oath, even though they gave conflicting statements. therefore, we, the european parliament, ask for the humanitarian release and repatriation of paul rusesabagina. the prison sentence of more than 25 years de facto is a death sentence. mr rusesabagina is 62 years old and a cancer survivor, and he needs care. finally, and maybe most importantly, he’s a belgian – a european citizen – and a us resident. this means that we are responsible for his fundamental human rights, and we have seen that these rights are being firmly violated by rwanda. therefore, we ask the eeas and the member states to do everything within their power to get paul rusesabagina to safety.
author. – mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, you do not kidnap someone to give him a fair trial. that came across my mind when paul rusesabagina was arrested in kigali last summer. and so a few months ago, colleagues, this house adopted a strong resolution – a very strong resolution that condemned the illegal rendition of paul and called on rwanda to give him a fair trial. colleagues, it really saddens me today that we’re standing here again, because what we feared became reality: a process indeed took place, but not a due process. and yet paul was sentenced to 25 years in prison. so today, colleagues, another strong resolution is on the table, and i really want to thank – they are almost all belgians, i must say – tom and kathleen and marie arena and everybody, and assita, who helped to push forward this resolution. another strong resolution is on the table. a resolution that condemns the violations of his right to due process. and actually, colleagues, it has one – one, commissioner – one clear message to the rwandan authorities: paul rusesabagina is ill. release him on humanitarian grounds and let him be repatriated. without us saying whether he is guilty or innocent. dear colleagues, i really hope that we will adopt this resolution today with a broad majority, as we did last time, so that we can send a united, very strong message to rwanda, which will be heard there.
author. mr president, paul rusesabagina, known for saving thousands of lives during the rwandan genocide, has been sentenced to 25 years in prison. groups that have independently monitored the trial have denounced his judicial record as it has been marred by numerous violations of his rights, including the illegal circumstances of his transfer from dubai to kigali, his enforced disappearance, his subsequent secret detention, the interception of privileged and confidential communications between rusesabagina and his lawyers, and public statements, including those by president kagamé, that may have influenced the accused's right to be presumed innocent. the victims of armed attacks deserve justice. the perpetrators must be held accountable for their actions in the context of a fair trial; but the trial of mr rusesabagina was politically motivated, against a backdrop of persecution of political opponents, activists and journalists, including the use of the notorious pegasus spyware, and in a country where respect for human rights, freedom of expression, democracy, the rule of law and the separation of powers are far from being achieved. in this context, the european union's reluctance to publicly denounce the human rights violations in rwanda is a mistake. the socioeconomic progress that the country has undoubtedly made in recent years cannot be an excuse for not applying all the measures provided by the cotonou agreements, and soon by the post-cotonou agreements, with regard to human rights. the european union and rwanda should intensify their dialogue so that the opposition and dissenting voices can be heard and represented fairly. the commission must ensure that the european union's support to the rwandan government is linked to the full promotion of human rights. in view of the lack of guarantees of a fair trial and in view of his poor health, we demand on humanitarian grounds the immediate release of mr rusesabagina.
author. mr. president, we repeat today and we will repeat as many times as necessary until we have secured security and justice for paul rusesabagina. paul rusesabagina was sentenced to 25 years in prison following arbitrary detention and illegal transfer to rwanda. regardless of his guilt or innocence - it is not for us to make that judgment - we must ensure that the trial is independent and fair, as we have asked for before. it is also necessary that, following his unlawful detention, he be released immediately on humanitarian grounds. we also call for their physical integrity and psychological well-being to be guaranteed at all times, as well as access to the medication they so badly need. the european authorities, the delegation of the european union, therefore have a duty to put pressure on the rwandan authorities to ensure that justice is done and that paul rusesabagina's safety is not again put in question.
author. mr president, the 25 year sentence for paul rusesabagina is a sharp repudiation of paul kagame's rosy legend of rwanda, justified by the country's reasonable economic performance. it is not necessary to go back to the details of the case to challenge the disproportionate nature of the sentence imposed on the hero of hotel rwanda. it might have been expected that his bravery during the 1994 genocide - when, as deputy director of the hotel des mille collines, he saved over 1,000 people from the carnage - would have been more widely recognised. this judicial epilogue was, moreover, part of a particularly difficult context for the opposition. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. these accusations are compounded by suspicions that the country will exert pressure on diasporas, especially in europe. on this last point, the european union, the member states and the international community must demand full transparency.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, april 2021 marks the 27th year since the rwandan genocide, one of the first genocide atrocities in history. i’m appalled to see the steady increase of repression and blatant disregard for human life exhibited by the government of rwanda. the trial and recent sentencing of rwanda critic and political opponent paul rusesabagina is emblematic of the government’s manipulation of the justice system and verifies that the ruling rwandan patriotic front continues to target those perceived as a threat to the government. paul rusesabagina has been a vocal critic of the president of rwanda, an action not unlike a death sentence for politicians or opposition candidates. i call for increased dialogue with rwanda to put greater emphasis on respect for human rights and the rule of law. the rwandan government must honour its obligations under the cotonou agreement, which specifies that respect for human rights is an essential element of eu-acp cooperation. rusesabagina has always denied any involvement in the attacks for which he’s been tried, and his trial has been riddled with irregularities and evidence of political interference. every person accused of a crime should have their guilt or innocence determined by a fair and effective legal process. in the aftermath of the rwandan genocide, the world undertook never to turn aside again as similar crimes against humanity transpired. we must honour this commitment. we must continue to fight for fairness for paul rusesabagina.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, one year after being arrested in a hazy manner, paul rusesabagina, who saved over a thousand lives in 1994 from the genocide in his country, has been sentenced to 25 years in prison on charges of terrorism and criminal activity. belgian citizen and resident in the united states, arrested upon arrival in rwanda on a trip in 2020. since then, we have seen a series of attacks on the rule of law and the judicial system in the country, along with a clear disregard for the rights of the detainee. this process has been criticized by the international community as a way to silence political dissent and opposition to the established power. we cannot agree with this action by the rwandan government. i call for the separation of powers to be guaranteed, for the political opposition and the right to express opinions to be fully respected and for the citizen paul rusesabagina to be guaranteed all the rights inherent in his condition: the right to access his medication, the right to prepare his defence with all the human and material means at his disposal and above all, at this moment, the right to a fair and free remedy.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! it's a very sad story, the story of a hero who, in a time of genocide, in a time of contempt, in a time when people were thinking primarily about saving their own lives, saved the lives of other people. he saved hundreds of them, over a thousand. there's a feature film about it. and now he's in prison himself. it is a sad story, but it is also the story of the relationship between us, the european union and rwanda. i was in rwanda, and i was there to see the moving genocide museum in the capital, kigali, and i think that both we as european nations should learn from what is in this museum, but also the hosts should respect human rights, especially as we support this country economically and humanitarianally.
mr president, commissioner, the conditions of arrest which are the result of kidnapping, the refusal to give him access to a lawyer of his choice, confiscated legal documents, the presumption of innocence which president kagame has abrogated: we can all agree that paul rusesabagina, a european citizen, was not given a fair trial, which resulted in a sentence of 25 years in prison, contrary to what the rwandan authorities claim. we therefore call for his immediate release and repatriation on humanitarian grounds. this is also proof that there is a tendency in rwanda today to silence any criticism of the regime. we therefore remind the rwandan authorities of their international commitments to respect fundamental rights. access to justice, democracy, freedom of expression and multi-party democracy are among these commitments. we ask the foreign service to remind rwanda of these commitments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, who would call a man who saved some 1200 people during a genocide a terrorist? but that is what the court and the government of rwanda have done, where democracy has been silenced for years and voices of criticism have been turned into cries of torture in prisons. we are dealing with a political prisoner, a death sentence for a 67-year-old cancer survivor. that is why we strongly condemn today the arrest and detention of mr rusesabagina. we call for his immediate release and for his return to belgium, of which he is a citizen and therefore a european citizen. we denounce the actions of the rwandan authorities which violate human rights and individual freedoms. we invite and urge the high representative and vice-president to prepare a list of persons and entities responsible for human rights violations in rwanda, in line with the european union's comprehensive human rights sanctions regime. we need to send a clear and powerful signal: the president of rwanda cannot and must not continue to repress his opponents by imprisonment and torture.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, the european union has been closely following the human rights situation in rwanda. we address human rights issues on a regular basis in our dialogue with rwanda, in particular in the political dialogue under article 8 of the cotonou agreement. the eu will continue to engage with the rwandese authorities on the promotion of governance, civil society and human rights. we will continue to advocate for the full implementation of all human rights obligations, as well as of the universal periodic report’s recommendations. on the case of paul rusesabagina, the eeas and the eu delegation in kigali have consistently and repeatedly, including recently, made the rwandan authorities aware of our expectation that the right of mr rusesabagina and co-accused to due process and fair trial be fully respected. the competent belgian authorities have had regular consular access to mr rusesabagina and have kept us informed. we have monitored the trial, both in the courtroom and online, and as such, we have taken note of the verdict condemning mr rusesabagina to 25 years in prison on terrorism—related charges. we have also taken note of the verdict against his co-accused. we understand that mr rusesabagina has the right to appeal the verdict. we are aware of the reports that mr rusesabagina did not receive a fair trial with regard to the right of defence. we are aware of concerns about due process, his access to lawyers, legal documents and time for preparation. however, we note that the authorities remedied many of the issues after they had been raised with them. beyond the procedural concerns, which clearly merit to be expressed, we should not lose sight of the serious allegations against the accused – the body of evidence presented by the prosecution, much of which was provided through cooperation with member states’ prosecution authorities. dear members, you can rest assured that we will continue to closely follow his particular case, and we will continue to engage with the rwandan government on human rights issues, as you see we do with all our partner countries around the world.
author. mr. president, we welcome the news that has reached us tonight of the possibility of a us federal judge blocking the implementation of the anti-abortion law in texas. if that happens, it will be a victory for american women, and consequently a victory for all of us. the texas proposal to almost ban access to safe and legal abortion is a violation of sexual and reproductive rights and fundamental human rights, protected under international law. it's a proposal that would leave out 85 to 90 percent of the women in texas who need to have an abortion, forcing them into unsafe, illegal channels that risk their health and their lives. so we express our solidarity with the women of texas and we call for this type of proposal not to go forward, in order to ensure that all abortion services are accessible to all women and girls. our bodies, our rights: this is a fight of all of us, of all of us. every time he backs down on the rights of some women, it is all of us who back down, and that is why we do not give up and we do not give up on our solidarity with the women of texas.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament! we were just having a debate on the situation in rwanda. and in this case, in the case of a hero who saved thousands of lives, we were united. on the issue of life, on the issue of abortion, this parliament, and probably every parliament in the world, including the texas state congress, is divided because it is a certain dispute, a civilization dispute, a dispute that is in the world today. i think we should talk about these things in a very balanced way, understand each other's reasons. i think we also need to talk about the rights of those who cannot defend themselves, including the rights of children. i think it's really a matter of leaving it to the individual countries, and in this case, one of the states of the united states.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i speak today on behalf of the ppe group in order to announce that our group will not participate on the substance of this debate. this debate does not address a case of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. this debate rather constitutes yet another example of abuse of this house’s so far well—established and highly respected procedure of addressing urgent cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in third countries where they are most at risk. in countries where there is no rule of law, where laws are applied arbitrarily, where there is no freedom of expression, or where individuals or groups are systematically harassed, and where courts are obedient executers of the ruler’s will. none of that is the case in the united states. to the contrary; this controversial law is not in force yet, has been addressed and continues to be evaluated in different court instances. just yesterday, a federal judge stopped the application. and of course, further instances will follow. so who are we to put such a situation on the same level and address it with the same discussion instrument as when we discussed china’s stance on hong kong or the uighurs, or russia’s, or belarus’s, or cuba’s multifold human rights violations? for some, it’s probably yet another expression or occasion of general anti—americanism. i call on the more reasonable colleagues in the group that signed not to support this motion as we will not support this motion.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it happens every day. it happens every day that women in this world get pregnant unwanted. and it's also exactly what happens every day around the world that there are groups and factions that think to step in precisely in this situation and say, "we are not on your side". we have an example in texas, an example of a very backward situation, of putting pressure on women in conflict. it happens every day. it's good that there's been a change of heart tonight. it's a good thing the law isn't coming as fast as some people thought it would. but it's just a little moment to stop and catch our breath, because it's gonna happen again. when will mankind finally understand that it is a human right to determine one's own body? we have members on the far, far right who think that wearing a mask is unreasonable, but who also think that continuing a pregnancy that you don't want to continue is reasonable. we have a double standard here, and we women can't stand it! and i want to mention again the very, very right-wingers in this room. it is intolerable for us women that sometimes getting a shot, that is, a vaccination, is seen as unreasonable and a restriction of women's or human rights. and on the other hand, girls who are 12 or 13 years old, who are pregnant after being raped, are told, "that's reasonable". let's think about what's reasonable and what's not.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, isn’t it regrettable that i am the first man today to speak in favour of this resolution on this floor? i was only a child when ceaușescu was ruling romania and i remember how thousands of people would rat on their neighbours and family for choosing to terminate a pregnancy. the new state law might turn texas too into a snitch state because it might seem unbelievable, but any citizen, even those not involved, men, it doesn’t matter, might stand to win usd 10 000 for noticing anybody who doesn’t respect this law or abets or aids abortion. unfortunately, the recent ban is not about protecting the unborn. it is about male dominance. it is an attack on female agency. it is about exposing women to a deadly risk. even federal judges called it today an offensive deprivation, and it is an offensive deprivation. do we know what a pregnancy is? it is one of the most determinative aspects of a woman’s life. do we know that it disrupts not just the body but the education, the employment, the right to achieve a full potential? because if we do, we must take action now and we must stand firm with the women of texas because they might be the women of europe as well. if we do and if we vote for this resolution – and i encourage all men to vote for this resolution in this hall – i remind you of the words of ruth bader ginsburg , who once said ‘abortion is an essential part of sexual equality, thus ending all ethical debate.’ a vote for this resolution is the right thing.
madam president, life is the precondition for any human being to possess fundamental rights, because only a human being that is alive has the legal capacity to hold rights and obligations. the representatives of texans decided that they, as a society and a state, have to protect the ones among them who were not yet born but their hearts started to beat, so they passed the texas heartbeat act. considering that abortion is a fundamental right, it is simply absurd that the european parliament is criticising now the texas legislator for this act that protects the life of the unborn with the heartbeat. instead of giving money to ngos in the united states to promote abortion among the most vulnerable communities over there, we should support providing actual choices for mothers-to-be, such as maternity leave, parental leave, flexible working hours, early child care, business literacy, or jobs for single mums, or adoptions. europe is dying, dear colleagues, and this is a fact. if we really care about the future of europe, instead of ideologically-empty talks, let’s get together to identify and promote feasible solutions for women to choose life so europe can have a future.
in writing. the green deal revolution is vital in the european union's fight against climate change. but neither the green deal as a whole nor its related strategies should be paid for out of the pockets of europeans. i support the principles underlying the 'farm to consumer' strategy, but only if the diversity of the agricultural systems in each member state is taken into account. romanian food producers are making considerable efforts, on the one hand, to cope with imports of food from outside the european union, produced under questionable conditions, and on the other hand, to remain competitive with their colleagues in other member states, which use much larger quantities of chemicals. therefore, the halving of these substances, without taking into account the specificities of romanian agriculture, is incorrect and against the principles of fair competition. the european commission has failed to present a cumulative impact study. my vote against the report was therefore a message to the brussels executive: without an impact assessment and without a clear way of implementing the objectives of this strategy at country level, the strategy does not guarantee either the improvement of agri-food systems or the predictability of the agricultural sector.
in writing. the 'farm to consumer' strategy is a dismal example of good intentions being sabotaged on the spot by a wrong strategy. it is one thing to protect biodiversity and try to mitigate the impact of climate change, and quite another to endanger the food security of eu citizens. it is one thing to fight unhealthy food, but it is quite another to deprive the european consumer of access to basic products. studies not considered by the european commission, although carried out by its own internal services indicate the risk of a serious decline in production, followed by an increase in prices and a threat to the eu's position on the global market, if arbitrarily established provisions, such as mandatory generalised levels to reduce the use of pesticides, are applied, although there are large differences between member states. for example, between romanian agriculture and that of other european countries. i therefore voted against this strategy. i call on the european commission to take account of the specificities of each eu country's agriculture and the economic and social priorities of european citizens, in view of the expected legislative proposal on pesticides in 2022 and the first review of the strategy in 2023.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, the shock caused by the coronavirus pandemic has shaken the economies of the european union, and i think it is essential that we all learn a lesson from this public health crisis, overlaid with an economic crisis. but as a right-wing politician, i would like to appeal to the commission, commissioner, to give real support to the people who need the support of the european union, the people who are really vulnerable, and to stop the waste of public money. it is essential that we focus resources on concrete, solid projects that are relevant to the development of our economies. when we have predictable tax legislation, our savings can recover, and those who need real support from us will benefit from those resources. that is the message i want to convey with regard to this report.
mr president, mrs president von der leyen, prime minister, the pis victory came under the promise of reforms in the name of independence, but the reality is different: the reform of the polish judicial system with arbitrariness and discrimination of judges - which included the control of the constitutional court - led to the rule of law procedure initiated by the european commission in 2016. the polish government has been behaving since 2016 as a cacique force, as an occupier says a polish friend of mine, in a conquered territory, where it seems that the will of the winning party is interpreted as the supreme law that allows the conqueror to do whatever he wants above the legal order itself. five years have passed since populism, since the dissolution of pluralism with its lies about the only national being, its political victimhood, its exclusionary identity: whether left or right, populism wants to implement a political theology. president von der leyen, today's vote is a blackmail to normalize what the populists consider their heritage, and you have to see how much they resemble the communists and putin... (the president withdraws the speaker).
mr president, i’m kindly asking you not to cut my microphone because the gentleman over there had nearly 40 minutes of offending this room with lies and other topics. mr morawiecki, do you know what the truth is? the truth is that it is not the judiciary doing this to the polish people. the polish judiciary are heroes, fighting for their independence and for their freedom now. it is not the european union doing this to the polish people – the european union has been there every single step along the way – it is you who is doing this to the polish people, and mr kaczyński, and the polish law and justice party (pis). it is you who captured the constitutional court, the institutions, the rule of law. you are dismantling this every single day. it is you doing this. my call to the polish people is to stay out there in the street where they are now. i’ve seen the same as what you are doing now in romania some years ago. we took to the streets. we stood out there as long as it took, and we got rid of them. this is exactly what will happen to you if you do not stop. this is my message, and my call to the council and the commission is to stay by the side of the polish people until they get what... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, european leaders must show responsibility and act in accordance with the agreement that was reached in the multiannual financial framework (mff). the cuts proposed by the council prevent us from delivering on the objectives we have for europe, implementing the policies agreed upon by the leaders, and planning for a strong social recovery for the future of europe. in the view of the european parliament and of our political group, we believe it is important to show more ambition when it comes to next year’s budget. we need to provide adequate resources to deal with the health crisis, but also with the social and economic challenges it raises. we call for an increase in the eu budget of eur 2.7 billion, while preserving sufficient margins and resources for the special instruments. these funds will enable the eu to do more for each european, each member state and each european policy. for that, we need the commission to also make sure that 2022 will be a full implementation year for the budget. we cannot lose any more time. 2021 was a lost year for the current mff, and that is not our fault. member states and the commission should have done more to speed up the implementation. the socialists and democrats in the european parliament have three key priorities. we support the social recovery with a special focus on youth, employment, education, cohesion, smes and start-ups, for which we request eur 1.2 billion. we want to invest in a sustainable future, including climate, research, innovation, health, digitalisation, transport and agriculture, for which we believe an extra eur 2 billion is needed. we believe that europe should promote solidarity and democratic values within the eu and across the world and, for that, the parliament calls for more than eur 600 million in additional funds. these priorities are reflected in the reinforcement increase of all the eu programmes. we also call for the rapid implementation in 2022 of the european child guarantee, making sure no child is left behind and suffers the negative effect of the pandemic. our demand for an additional allocation of eur 700 million for the child guarantee represents a key achievement of our political group. we are also happy to see several of our requests being integrated in the proposal, like, for instance, the new tourism line of eur 42 million, an additional eur 24 million for smes and start-ups, eur 5 million for social dialogue, eur 7.5 million for employment, and eur 90 million for the eastern and southern neighbourhoods. our discussion today is key. if we want to do things better at local, national and european level and match our priorities, we need to allocate adequate resources for the eu budget. in this respect, our proposals are constructive and clear and can represent the starting point of a new european budget fitting citizens’ priorities.
on behalf of the renew group. "madam president, commissioner, never have so many owed so much to so few", said winston churchill in the midst of war. we must be inspired by this spirit again today, because europe is actually at war, and europeans must see in what we are doing here a shield. while many are preparing to emerge from the pandemic, my country, romania, is unfortunately entering a fourth wave, which is not a wave, it's a tsunami. 574 people died today. it's a national tragedy, and our doctors can't do it anymore, the atis are busy. that is why the number one priority of this parliament can only be health. this parliament has already laid the foundation stone of a health system which will one day allow a romanian patient to be treated in hospital, as in austria, for example. moreover, my group, renew europe, has set aside a billion euros for vaccination, for covax, because we're not getting any better if the whole world isn't getting better. this budget must also be the cleanest in history. that's why i proposed and argued that laura codruța kövesi should have the money for the staff she needs, to control that this money is not stolen, that it is not taken by corrupt people. why would you do that? because this money is partly borrowed, and we have to guard it, to keep an eye on it, like a bottle. europe is nothing without its young people. young people deserve as many opportunities as possible. that is why we are increasing the budget today by 40 000 erasmus grants, precisely for those young people who, instead of travelling, had to sit in front of a screen instead of in front of the louvre. to talk about 2022 today, is, i imagine, like others in the first war talked about 1942, so it certainly wasn't easy. but our supreme role here in this european house is this: to be able to do it when the europeans can't.
mr president, commissioner, foreign minister, in order to accelerate the transition to a green economy, the commission proposes 14 areas that can benefit from state aid. commendably, but the impact on competition and trade change will be major, because states do not have the same potential to provide state aid to their own economies to ensure a just transition. i'm asking the commission and i want the answer. for example: what possibilities for granting state aid for the closure of coal-based activities does romania have compared to germany? what are the possibilities for romania to grant state aid for rail transport compared to france and germany? ensuring a fair transition through the correct allocation of financial resources is mandatory.
mr president, i’m hopeful we now have a better chance than ever to honour the paris agreement. the eu is leading the way with its climate law and climate package. the us has new targets and a new progressive president. even china has pledged climate neutrality. i don’t think it’s possible to underestimate the importance of the glasgow summit. in paris, we changed direction, but the emissions kept rising. cop26 must be a turning point – not just for the conversation, but also for emissions. as parliament’s delegate to cop26, i will do everything i can to spread our message for increased ambition. today, we are adopting our negotiation mandate with a clear message to the world. today’s pledges, which will result in three degrees of heating, are far from enough to avoid a climate catastrophe. instead, we need radical action, such as ending fossil fuel subsidies, pricing emissions as in the ets and action on climate finance. most importantly, we need a true crisis mindset to take us from words to action.
mr president, mr sinkevičius, today i am a simple postman, because i am the voice of the young people of romania. two weeks ago, this parliament held an event called 'youth europe's event' with the motto 'the future belongs to them'. but does it really belong to them? what do these young people really want? they want, in fact, a healthy planet, they want forests, they want a clean, fair, environmentally friendly economy. they really don't want to be the generation that has first-class tickets to the drama called "global warming". for whom do we actually decide to do this? for them, for those who will stay and feel the effects of climate change. we may not be here in 2050, but they will. it's just like elena ferrante said in her novel: it's the fight between those who stay and those who leave. our children must no longer die from pollution in europe, they must no longer be trapped in natural disasters, in floods, in forest fires, in toxic spills. when the water kills the fish. that's how you know how ill it is. this is about a rapper, not some philosopher. but what it expresses very well is the anxiety of an entire generation. so, listen to them!
the next item is the commission statement on the strengthening of anti-money laundering measures (2021/2909 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for the opportunity to outline our very determined efforts to fight money laundering and how the commission is working to ensure the effective application of existing anti-money laundering rules. we adopted a very ambitious anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism (aml/cft) package on 20 july and i look forward to working with parliament to reach a swift adoption. this package should be seen in the context of a comprehensive aml/cft policy at union level. enforcement is a key element of that comprehensive policy. effective implementation of the existing aml rules is at the very core of our approach to fighting money laundering. and over the years since the first aml directive in 1991, the eu has been reinforcing its anti-money laundering rules. these rules are now amongst the toughest in the world and will be further strengthened once the july 2021 aml package is adopted. but they will only be effective if they are enforced equally across the board. this is confirmed by the work carried out by this parliament through the panama papers inquiry committee and the tax3 special committee. this was also confirmed by the debate that this house had a fortnight ago about the pandora papers. in the european union, we need to ensure that beneficial ownership registers are up and running and fully populated. we will use our enforcement powers under the treaty to that end, and we will work in international forums to make sure that other jurisdictions will follow suit by bringing about full transparency of beneficial ownership. honourable members, we share the same ambition: effective implementation, one of the pillars of our aml policy, must remain at the centre of all our actions. our enforcement approach to aml is based on several tools available to the commission. first, a thorough control of transposition. we are determined that our existing rules on aml are fully implemented, even as we negotiate the new proposals. and let me be very clear: existing legislation must be fully and correctly transposed and applied on the ground in our member states. on the fourth anti-money laundering directive (amld4), we started with infringement procedures against all member states for incomplete or incorrect transposition. today, there are three ongoing non-conformity cases – all of them at the stage of letters of formal notice. on the fifth anti-money laundering directive (amld5), the commission sent letters of formal notice to 16 member states on the grounds of partial or non-transposition. five member states have reached the stage of reasoned opinion. one letter of formal notice has already been sent for incorrect transposition. more letters are likely to follow in the coming months as we complete conformity checks. transposing amld4 and amld5 was a very difficult process for member states. we in the commission supported the efforts of member states by cooperating with them, while in parallel launching formal infringement proceedings. the special report of the european court of auditors on aml identified the limited resources the commission has to carry out transposition checks. but i want to say that even with those limited resources – and i assure you of this – we are doing our utmost to implement the recommendations in the report and to ensure that amld is fully and correctly transposed. a second tool available to us is to ensure effective implementation of the aml directive, and this involves a proactive look at the state of play of application of the rules as transposed in the national laws of member states. the council of europe is conducting a study on the effective implementation of the aml framework in each member state, including on—site visits to all member states and looking at core provisions of our rules, for example, whether supervisors and financial intelligence units are sufficiently staffed; the functioning of registers of beneficial ownership, and how the supervision of the non-financial sector is carried out. another tool we use are country-specific recommendations (csrs) within the european semester. here, the commission issued 11 aml-related csrs last year, and we plan to make greater use of the semester for aml in the next cycle. this year, most member states that have received csrs have included aml in the recovery and resilience plans. next generation eu provides further leverage for monitoring progress in member states. where measures on aml have been included in member states’ plans, their implementation will be monitored through milestones and targets. the european banking authority (eba) also has powers in the field of anti-money laundering, particularly in relation to investigating whether a national supervisor has breached union law when carrying out its tasks. we expect the eba to make full use of its powers. in addition to national competent authorities, it is important to involve civil society. the commission is currently implementing a pilot project requested by parliament called ‘capacity building, programmatic development and communication in the context of the fight against money laundering and financial crimes’. this is aimed at increasing aml awareness and empowering civil society in this area. the proposals presented in our 20 july aml package will strengthen the current framework. under the new aml regulation, obliged entities will be subject to directly applicable rules. in particular, the aml regulation provides for harmonised requirements for consumer due diligence, and such requirements are more detailed and granular than at present and will be further refined via implementing legislation prepared by the future eu aml authority. the single rulebook will also further specify our rules on beneficial ownership, to improve our knowledge of who is behind a transaction and to exercise its control over a company or legal arrangement or entity. these new rules will clarify the concept of control and increase the powers of registers to get accurate information. we fully share the findings of the european court of auditors, which viewed the aml package as an opportunity for the commission and the co—legislators to remedy the fragmentation of the eu aml framework. for enforcement to be as efficient and effective as possible, we urgently need an aml single rulebook. with this new legislative package, the commission has fully delivered on this recommendation from the european court of auditors. a new eu supervisory authority, the eu aml authority (amla), will have a key role in ensuring that all national authorities effectively implement the single rulebook. in order to best prepare the ground for the new authority, in particular with respect to the supervision of the non-financial sector and the functioning of financial intelligence units (fius), member states need to make tangible headway in efficiently implementing the aml framework. with this in mind, we will follow up on the findings of the council of europe report. amla, the new authority, will also have the possibility to conclude working arrangements with the european anti-fraud office (olaf), europol, eurojust and the european public prosecutor’s office to ensure good cooperation of all actors, as it is critical to bridge the gaps between the preventative and repressive strands of the eu aml framework. as regards the law enforcement angle, the fight against criminal finances will play a prominent role under the new european multidisciplinary platform against criminal threats (empact) 2021-2025 initiative, the flagship instrument for cooperation among member states, agencies and eu bodies to fight organised crime. the creation of the european financial and economic crime centre at europol in june 2020 is a significant step to reinforce law enforcement efforts against financial crimes. we will bolster these efforts by supporting operational cooperation at the anti-money laundering operational network (amon) of money laundering investigators and by proposing, next year, stronger rules on asset recovery and confiscation to ensure that crime does not pay. aml is an area where the smooth exchange of information is crucial. one of the priorities of the commission in this area was to take over the management of the fiu.net system, pending its transfer to amla in the future, and i am happy to confirm to the house that that transfer has now been successfully completed. we expect the new authority to be established in 2023 and to start its activities in 2024. the direct supervision of certain high-risk financial entities will only begin in 2026, which is when amla will reach its full staffing. until then, our commitment to fighting money laundering, by all possible means, remains strong and unchanged, and i’m happy to count on this house’s continued support on this very important issue. thank you, colleagues, for your engagement. i look forward to hearing your views.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union has had a money laundering problem for years. estimates put the volume of suspicious transactions within europe in the triple-digit billions. the european commission, at the urging of the european parliament, finally took up our longstanding demands this summer and put forward proposals for a more binding set of rules and an independent and hopefully powerful authority. these are certainly proposals which point in the right direction. but we shouldn 't be fooling ourselves . we are making progress in the fight against money laundering only if the member states are also involved, and unfortunately we are failing far too often today. if i may take my own country, germany, for example, we see that the special anti-money laundering unit based at customs has a huge mountain of unresolved suspicions. he's even being investigated for criminal negligence. the federal minister of finance and possibly future federal chancellor olaf scholz bears responsibility for this, and it is interesting that he had to admit at the hearing in the committee responsible that he had never visited this authority, which he himself created. but it is not just the ability that is lacking, it is also the will that is lacking in the member states. we need a stronger european role and a stronger european authority, otherwise we will fail miserably.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, first i would like to welcome the new aml/ctf package proposed by the commission, the single rulebook, the new aml authority, the new rules on beneficial ownership transparency. i’m looking forward to working on these proposals. at the same time, please let me remind you that we have 16 amld iv infringement procedures launched by the commission, including romania, and four amld v procedures open. this approach to aml coming from the member states cannot continue like that. if we do not properly transpose and implement; if we do not properly equip our law enforcement with the right tools to fight money laundering; if we do not have strong and independent justice systems, we will not succeed. this is a call to responsibility and respect for the rule of law in all of the member states. let us do this properly. secondly, we have all witnessed the pandora papers: more than 230 politicians from 90 countries, 35 current or former heads of state, 133 forbes billionaires, whose combined fortunes exceed 500 billion, and 46 russian oligarchs. this is crushing. each and every single name on this list needs to be properly audited. each and every member state needs to do this. then we can say that we are countering money laundering, secret jurisdictions, tax havens and evasion properly: eu institutions and eu members, shoulder to shoulder, as it should be.
mr. president, i have to go. respected. i welcome the european union's support for the european perspective of the western balkan countries, but unfortunately there is no assurance as to how fast the enlargement will continue. significant investment in the development of the region cannot replace the unfulfilled promises of european governments. we need results by the end of the year, during the slovenian presidency. the union must open accession negotiations with north macedonia and albania as soon as possible, this year. there is no excuse. the credibility of the expansion process is at stake. kosovo has been waiting for years for the abolition of visas for its citizens, the country has met the conditions, the young people are losing hope, there is a brain drain in the region. the problems of corruption, organised crime, political interference in the judiciary and the media are everywhere. the hard work must continue, but without rebuilding confidence in the enlargement process, progress will continue to be limited. the recent events in montenegro, on the border between kosovo and serbia and in the highest institutions of bosnia and herzegovina are alarming. in serbia, where i am mediating in the inter-party dialogue, i call on the government to fulfil the september agreement and to do everything possible to ensure balanced media coverage and conditions for democratic and fair elections next year. the political climate in the country needs to be improved and reforms pursued if accession negotiations are to resume as soon as possible. your honor, it is imperative that we restore trust. i therefore call on the governments of the union to move the enlargement process into gear.
mr president, i know that external affairs is not the commissioner’s topic but then the western balkans is not a matter of strictly external affairs. i think it concerns us almost internally. we have stated numerous times that the future of the western balkan countries lies in the european union, but stating it, including at the eu-western balkans summit is not enough. words are not enough. we need to take action. we need to put action into those words. and i believe that a prosperous and peaceful western balkans requires all six countries join hands, that they use the eur 30 billion in the economic and investment plan and they build back better and speed up crucial reforms and strengthen the rule of law and fight corruption and organised crime. on the other hand, we, as the european union, have homework to do as well and we need to work for reconciliation and regional cooperation. as we know, a deal between kosovo and serbia to end border tensions seemed almost impossible a while ago, but then we took important steps and the european union contributed a lot to those important steps. yes, the situation might still be unstable. yes, tensions might not have stopped to rise and the progress might be slow. but even with these baby steps, we have proved that, if there is political will and if there is leadership, solutions will follow. so let’s keep up using all our tools to unblock bilateral disputes, to reach a comprehensive deal between belgrade and pristina, to speed up the accession of albania and north macedonia. the sooner we start the better for the security of europe in general. i remind everyone that failure to do so will only open the room wider for russia and china to destabilise the region. there is no such thing as a vacuum possible in politics. we know that. and that vacuum that is perceived right now is filling up fast and it is not with us. colleagues, if our neighbourhood is not stable, we, in the european union, are not stable. we act in our interests if we act in the interests of the balkan people.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, this morning’s debate really confirms the european parliament’s continued interest, commitment, concern for and engagement in the western balkans, and i want to thank you for that. here the european union is rapidly transforming to address global challenges, including climate change, digitalisation and security. as potential future eu member states already closely linked to relevant eu policy areas by trade, transport or energy, our partners in the region are an important part of our vision for a stronger, greener and more resilient europe. only as partners can we successfully address these global challenges. several of you rightly mentioned the enlargement process and the need to preserve its credibility. it is also our strong conviction that a credible enlargement process based on merits and with clear conditionality is the best instrument to advance our partnership with the region. the european perspective remains a unique tool to foster stability and prosperity, which only the european union can offer. we welcome that ministerial representatives of the western balkans have been invited to participate in the upcoming plenary meeting of the conference on the future of europe this saturday. on good neighbourly relations, existing bilateral agreements, including the treaty of friendship, good neighbourliness and cooperation, need to be implemented in good faith by all parties. pending bilateral issues between bulgaria and north macedonia need to be resolved as a matter of priority. the commission has just published the enlargement package and progress reports, which take a comprehensive stock of our relations with the region and its progress on the eu path, and we look forward to the european parliament’s resolutions on these reports.
the chairman of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, thank you for the compliments at the conclusion of the eu-western balkans summit during the slovenian presidency. but i also thank you for the criticism of the outcome of this summit, because criticism does not fly to the presidency. the presidency has done everything in its power. these criticisms are directed at those who may still have reservations about the enlargement perspective of the western balkans. some dissatisfaction was expressed with the european perspective of the western balkan countries. i think this is an important message for all decision-makers in the european union, but also proof and reason that much more needs to be done in this area, both by the institutions and by the western balkan countries. it was also mentioned that no major progress was made at the eu-western balkans summit, but let me just give you a glimpse of the circumstances facing the european union, the member states and the presidency on this topic. as you know, and as has been mentioned today, one country in the western balkans is still not recognised by the five member states of the european union. in one country, there is no opposition in parliament. in one country, the federal government has not sat for months and there are a lot of unadopted legislation, some 240 bills. one western balkan country does not have the green light of one of the european union member states because of bilateral issues. one country does not obtain the consent of some member states for visa liberalisation, even though it has fulfilled all the conditions. some countries have a foreign policy alignment with the eu's common foreign and security policy below 50%. in one of the countries, they even talk about partitioning the country. in short, this is a region of the western balkans which requires a very precise and very coordinated approach by the member states. and the progress in the western balkans expansion is not a straight highway, but rather a winding mountain trail with all the dangers that lie along the way. this was one of the reasons why the slovenian presidency decided to devote a great deal of its efforts to the european perspective of the region. and these kinds of efforts, as you know, are not automatically doomed to success, but rather require great effort to achieve limited success. this has been the case throughout the preparations for the eu-western balkans summit. this was most evident in the reconciliation of the conflicting positions on the declaration adopted by the eu-western balkans summit. i just want to point out that it was impossible to put the word 'enlargement' in the declaration at the beginning, and you have it in the declaration. some of you have mentioned that the enlargement date is missing from the declaration. this complaint cannot be addressed to the presidency. the presidency has been very vocal about this, but as you know, in the subsequent harmonization of this declaration, it was not possible to put it into the declaration. some of you have pointed to the stagnation of reforms in individual western balkan countries. the new enlargement strategy adopted in march 2020 is designed to do this by negotiating or implementing cluster progress, where partial progress is possible, but also a step backwards if the required progress is not achieved. some of you have mentioned what is called decoupling. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. it should be noted that the republic of north macedonia has fulfilled all the conditions for the opening of the intergovernmental conference. and as you know, we need the consent of all 27 member states. i can assure you that the presidency is giving its consent. there are still many gaps in the western balkans' path towards european integration, and this too is not a short-term process. but i think that by focusing our efforts and also our discussions on this issue, we are putting this issue and our common commitment back high on the agenda of the european union institutions. and in this respect, much also depends on the european parliament. today i listened to the performances of five of the six representatives of the european parliament covering the individual countries of the western balkans. i think that these were important messages, both for the presidency and for the member states, who are the decision-makers and who must decide by consensus on every next step. however, i can say that the success of the eu-western balkans summit is measurable in that the declaration clearly states that such summits will now be regular, which means that the heads of state and member states will review progress by country on a regular basis, while the heads of state or government from the region will have the opportunity to present their reform progress in direct dialogue with them. and the next summit will be held during the czech presidency, which will allow us to assess in one year's time what we have achieved in this region. we also have it in black and white that enlargement with the western balkans, or rather the completion of the european union map, is a strategic component that we are all working towards together. this is our promise and our commitment. we also approved the investment plan and committed to help with the covid-19 vaccines. and i think that all the other commitments that are mentioned in the declaration also offer the western balkan countries sufficient reasons to actively engage in the reform processes and to allow them to withdraw perhaps even those arguments that individual sceptical member states have to give the green light at the end. i look forward to working with the european parliament on this dossier and in this respect the european parliament can always count on the cooperation of the slovenian presidency.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – during the last eu—western balkans summit in brdo, eu leaders failed, once again, to make any further tangible commitment to enlargement. we offer our partners in the region vague words about their rightful place in europe. yet we fail to set any concrete objectives and a clear path to eu accession. it is very good that, on this occasion, the eu’s commitment to the enlargement process in general was reaffirmed. it is very good that we are ready to show our solidarity in the recovery of the region through the economic and investment plan. but for our partners in the region, it is not enough. our hesitancy to commit clearly and within a clear time—frame for accession will fuel instability in the western balkans and act as a deterrent for conducting serious reforms. in a larger geopolitical context, it sends a negative and discouraging message to our neighbours in the east, such as the republic of moldova, who aspire to join our union. we urgently need clarity for the western balkans and our eastern partners. our (by now) chronic indecision on enlargement risks to seriously undermine our role and influence in these regions.
the next item is the debate on the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european border and coast guard agency for the financial year 2019 (com(2020)0288 – c9—0247/2020 – 2020/2167(dec)) (a9—0270/2021).
member of the commission. – madam president, mr brudziński, honourable members, this is a very important debate. today you will vote on the frontex 2019 discharge. frontex fulfils a critical important task. its mission is to help member states protect the common european union external borders and to uphold fundamental rights in doing so. unfortunately, we have seen increased threats over the past months at parts of the european external borders. i welcome the swift response by frontex following lukashenko’s aggression, the deployment at the eu external border with belarus in lithuania, but also partly in latvia. this is frontex’s task: to offer technical and operational assistance, taking the unfolding communitarian emergency into account. but integrated external-border management is much more than managing irregular migration. it’s also about fighting human trafficking, trafficking of drugs, firearms and cross-border organised crime. to achieve this, frontex must be a robust and well-functioning agency with the right governance and control systems in place, and it must have the right processes and staff at its disposal to uphold fundamental rights. so i welcome the work of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) frontex scrutiny group. its report gives important recommendations. as i told the executive director, these need to be implemented, monitored and followed up. reports from the court of auditors, the eu ombudsman and the frontex management board’s own working group on fundamental rights also identify significant shortcomings in the agency’s governance. and the european anti-fraud office, olaf, is conducting an investigation, and we are awaiting its report. frontex must take action. this has been the position of the commission from day one. you, from parliament, also asked the commission to step up, and this is what we have done. we closely follow up and monitor the implementation of your recommendations, also by using our two seats on the frontex management board alongside all the member states. the commission initiated several extraordinary management board meetings dedicated to governance issues and allegations of fundamental rights violations, and we had regular high-level meetings between the commission and frontex on strategic matters. we provide continuous support and guidance to the agency, and now we can see the agency is taking action. the agency is implementing your recommendations on transparency, fundamental rights, budget and recruitment. in may, frontex established a transparency register concerning procurements and tenders. all meetings and contacts of the executive director and senior management must be registered. in your first report, you demanded an action plan to implement frontex’s new fundamental rights strategy. the action plan will be adopted in the coming days. the action plan is a fundamental rights framework for all the border guards. it will help border guards to respect and defend fundamental rights in their daily work, ensuring european integrated border management. it’s good news that today, frontex will appoint three deputy executive directors, as both commission and parliament have insisted. they have clear areas of responsibilities: returns, standing course and information management. they must be able to fully perform their tasks and duties based on clear internal reporting lines. the new fundamental rights officer took up his duties in june this year. the first 20 fundamental rights monitors have been trained and are ready for duty. the management board adopted rules guaranteeing their independence. important parts of the fundamental rights monitoring systems are now set up, but we need all parts in place for the machine to function. frontex must also appoint the remaining 20 fundamental rights monitors quickly. frontex published a vacancy notice last week for recruitment at ad level, as parliament requested. we will support the agency to complete hiring by the beginning of next year. it has also to be clear in detail how and when frontex suspends or terminates its operations. no eu body should ever find itself in a situation where it is involved in operations in violation of fundamental rights or international obligations. that’s why this house demanded clear procedures for article 46 of the ebcg regulation. this is still a work in progress. important discussions are still taking place in the management board. the agency still has enormous tasks and challenges ahead. belarus, afghanistan, unexpected geopolitical developments we are witnessing. to meet these challenges, the agency must function smoothly as a whole. all the pieces of the puzzle need to fit closely together. that’s why frontex needs a strong and robust governance framework, based on transparency and accountability. so frontex can do best what all of us want: to have a strong and operational european presence at europe’s border; to support and advise; to be our eyes and ears; to help member states to protect the european union borders and the european union’s fundamental rights. your reports have made clear what needs to be done, and they have had a strong impact. they have been followed up by action. it’s clear frontex has made progress on implementing your recommendations. it’s also clear more needs to be done. the commission will continue to support the agencies to carry out your recommendations. you can count on that.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – madam president, yes, i am stating here the case of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). as you are well aware, libe recommended in its first opinion for the 2019 discharge, to postpone the discharge for the agency. but then, in september 2021, the libe committee called on the budgetary control committee (cont) not to grant discharge for 2019 to frontex due to allegations of mismanagement, non—compliance with its commitments, non—adherence to the frontex regulation. above all, all of the investigation on frontex is still pending – not yet available. but it is a fact and an assumption that the increased competent staff and budget for the agency needs to be accompanied by a corresponding increase in accountability and transparency. that is why, the libe frontex scrutiny group, in its report endorsed on 15 july 2021, found issues related to reporting on fundamental rights, most concerning incidents, lack of recruitment of fundamental rights officers, and i quote: ‘lack of cooperation of the executive director to ensure full compliance with some of the provisions of the european border and coast guard regulation, notably on fundamental rights.’ therefore, i conclude, i am sorry to announce that we cannot grant discharge to the agency for 2019. also, if we want, we can insist on our own approach to the 2022 budget with a reserve agreed for the agency due to the issues thereby.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. let me begin with a brief history which exemplifies the way frontex works and the way it deals with the public under its present leadership. in 2019, the transparency organization fragdenstate sued frontex for the release of documents related to the mediterranean operation triton. this claim was dismissed by the court, and that is to be accepted. frontex had then charged the ngo €23 000 for legal and court costs, including the cost of an external lawyer, although frontex has its own legal department. frontex was seeking to sue the commission for this reimbursement. the court then declared the costs to be unreasonably high and reduced the amount by more than half to eur 10 000. the court's decision also removed travel expenses that it had ruled were unnecessary. in april 2021, when the first vote was taken on the very report we are debating and voting on today, this house asked frontex to withdraw this request for reimbursement. this request was reiterated by our frontex working party in july. but what this house, the representative of european citizens, is demanding, frontex, under its executive director fabrice leggeri, seems to be completely indifferent to. the state should have paid by 4 october; otherwise threatened with enforcement. the point is that when the state wanted to hand over the money to frontex in brussels, no one could be found. however, this is not a laughing matter, because it is an example of how frontex is trying to evade public scrutiny, intimidate critics and, by the way, ignore decisions of this house. the european court of auditors has recently found that frontex has not sufficiently implemented the 2016 mandate and will also have difficulties in fulfilling the 2019 mandate. the commission has also provided information on the number of staff recruited by frontex in the framework of the fundamental rights policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. our frontex working group also found that frontex had not responded effectively to the human rights violations at the external border, which it was well aware of. violations were not stopped, evidence was ignored. i have not yet mentioned a dinner of almost 100 000 euros of taxpayers' money, secret meetings with the arms lobby or ongoing olaf investigations. frontex's mission is to ensure safe and functional border controls, in line with high ethical standards and always striving for excellence. that's what the agency's website says. the reality is quite different. so, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you: what is still to happen before we can finally set clear boundaries for frontex? i think we have more than enough. so join me today in rejecting this discharge. this would be a good step towards a european border guard agency, which deserves its name and which also deserves our full support.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, frontex is by far the largest decentralised agency of the union and has an extremely sensitive mandate: keeping our borders safe. it is therefore vital that the agency implements its mandate with the utmost responsibility. since april, when we decided to postpone the discharge decision for the agency, frontex has started to implement the recommendations issued by the discharge authority and the dedicated libe (committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs) frontex scrutiny working group. i believe we should grant the discharge now, and this should be seen as an encouragement for the executive management to continue the steps set out in the different action plans and roadmaps. nevertheless, the agency’s leadership needs to fully implement this roadmap and fully comply with the frontex regulation. by the next discharge cycle, we want to see, among others, all 40 fundamental rights monitors, an updated serious incident report (sir) mechanism, and a fully-functional fundamental rights monitoring mechanism. part of the agency’s budget will be placed in a reserve and released only once these conditions are fully met. we are committed to keeping a very close eye on the progress achieved by the agency, and we shall do that through dedicated missions and visits on the ground. we would also like to see the results of the olaf investigation. finally, i would like to draw attention to the fact that cooperation with national authorities is extremely important for the functioning of the agency and its operations. frontex cannot do this by itself only. the role of the member states is crucial there. member states’ authorities must also abide by the highest standards of respect for fundamental rights and sound financial management, especially when conducting joint operations. mr leggeri, responsibility, respect for fundamental rights and transparency are at the core of a strong and trusted agency. this is what we expect of your management.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner mcguinness, first of all i would like to congratulate our colleague, dita charanzová, on this report. free movement is one of the great advantages that the european union has brought to our citizens, the citizens of the member states. even if we are not all part of the schengen area yet, we need a common approach and much easier cooperation also on compulsory motor insurance. the benefits of membership of an economic and political construction that can bring prosperity and increased comfort must be felt by all citizens of the european union, including in terms of compulsory insurance, especially in the context of an increasingly aggressive campaign of disinformation and downplaying of these benefits. it is true that the responsibility lies with the member states, but we must use digital technologies throughout the european union to ensure that cars on european roads have the insurance necessary to protect and support those involved in road accidents, without, however, imposing compulsory insurance where it is not needed. for example, vehicles that do not drive on public roads. green alternative transport means that significantly reduce pollution are increasingly found on our public roads. we currently have a road infrastructure for alternative means of transport that connects many countries in the european union, but to which unfortunately my country, romania, is not yet connected as i would have liked. but in addition to developing this infrastructure, we must also tackle the insurance issue in a unified and harmonised way. by imposing only where and when, they are required to come to meet the needs of all traffic participants. taking into account the mobility of european citizens, it is also necessary to ensure that the damage history is recognised and easily attested through a uniform procedure at european union level, with as little effort on the part of insured persons as possible.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, politicians, corporations, bankers, lawyers and even bishops have been using slapps (strategic lawsuits against public participation) to harass journalists, ngos and activists engaging in public participation with the sole aim of draining them financially and psychologically in retaliation for exposing wrongdoing and criticism. the worst part is that our european legal systems still allow for this. examples speak for the size and impact of slapps on our democracy. in poland, politicians from the governing coalition, including the pis (law and justice party) leader, jarosław kaczyński, have initiated over 55 slapps against one of the country’s leading free media outlets – gazeta wyborcza. last spring, romanian journalists, ovidiu vanghele, vlad stoicescu and diana oncioiu were sued by a former bishop after revealing cases of sexual abuse in the church. in malta, following daphne caruana galizia’s assassination, her family inherited over 40 slapp lawsuits, showing that abuse goes beyond death. thousands of such examples can be given, usually accompanied by huge financial claims, forum shopping and years of pain. a mere recommendation or an act tackling only cross-border slapps are simply not enough anymore. there may be limitations, but the eu has the competence to address this issue. our report identifies the legal basis to be used and sets out clear solutions. eu legislation must put an end to slapps, and the time to act is now, us here together and every single member state.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, freedom of the press is not an end in itself, but a means to achieve a free society, said a former us supreme court judge. the slapp lawsuits are a clear threat to the freedom of expression of journalists, and we need to protect them. but journalists also have a duty to the people and to the society to seek, investigate and report the facts without prejudice, fear or favour. in the last two years, for example, during this pandemic, many journalists have forgotten, unfortunately, their duty to speak the truth to power and not act as pr agents of the governments or medical companies. in september, the european ombudsman sent a press release stating that the european commission is under investigation on how ursula von der leyen personally negotiated and signed a contract on behalf of the eu with the pfizer company to buy 1.8 billion doses of vaccines. two weeks after that press release, only two articles were written about that story. elected officials have an obligation to protect the journalists who speak the truth. but those journalists also have the duty to seek the truth and tell it to people, because that is only how the truth will set us free.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the creation of a european education area is a unique opportunity to make the idea of the european union more accessible to all citizens. this project is another way of ensuring that citizens are directly involved in promoting european values, shared history and cultures values that connect us all. the traditional multicultural, multilingual regions had little to gain. and here i have the example of the transylvania region, or the example of my home town of arad in romania, where you can still see the great influences of three nations: romanians, hungarians and germans, but also the influences of those who were present in small numbers in the area, such as slovaks, serbs, jews, bulgarians and others. the smooth functioning of the union requires a high degree of mobility of the citizens concerned in all areas and at all professional levels. from trainees to masters and university students to doctoral candidates. the european education area is a good way to assess the level of education in all regions of the union and to support regions that need better adaptation at all ages.
in writing. i support, of course, student mobility, the recognition of diplomas in the eu, and many of the proposals in the report. the union can and should do more in this direction. as you know, i have an initiative to have bulgarian recognized as a second language in the whole european union, because there are no minor languages. we are in an alliance and we are equals. bulgaria has made a huge contribution to the world through its language and its writing, which is used by over 300 million people. that is why i once again call for the bulgarian language to be maturing in the eu. the other side of this report is about another attempt to ideologise education. you speak of strengthening the 'european dimension' in education, promoting european history and funding projects. but i will remind you that the development of history has led to the creation of our nation-states that form this union. these national states, with their past, shape european history. what is behind your 'european dimension' is yet another attempt to replace history and to de-personalise the nation states. we know our history, we remember it, we teach it in our schools and universities. i do not think that there is a need to introduce an additional 'european dimension' in this area.
in writing. i support the establishment of clear priorities, objectives, timeframes for action and intermediate outcomes for the european education area (eea). education is an investment that strengthens our european identity and helps to preserve our common values. at the same time, quality education stimulates creativity and innovation, which are a prerequisite for economic growth and job creation for european citizens. the content of curricula and the organisation of education systems is a national competence and must remain so, but the new challenges digitalisation, climate transition, demography, security require the mobilisation of european instruments and support policies within the european education area (eea). i believe that the member states and the commission must provide the necessary funding for the establishment, realisation and development of the eea, together with a dedicated eea financial instrument in the future multiannual financial framework. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to facilitate the extension of the automatic mutual recognition of diplomas and periods of study abroad. we need an eea platform as a multilingual interactive portal through which member states and other education actors can exchange information and best practices. it is also necessary that all eu universities are digitised and connected by creating a european online university platform.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the work she has done on this proposal. it has built on a good foundation of work by the european commission and has succeeded in improving it to include proposals from the various political groups. the importance of metrology is well known. it serves all areas of growth and as such also serves politics. serve us every day. it's used in energy, when we want to improve methods of measuring efficiency, for example, of solar cells. it's useful for healthcare, when we want to improve, for example, the quality of procedures like mri scans, when we want to have more efficient ventilators, or when we want rapid tests that are more effective in fighting covid. it serves the environment to improve and monitor pollutants in the atmosphere. anyway, as i said, it's good for life, it's good for politics. this report and this negotiation will ensure greater transparency, reduce conflicts of interest and improve the relationship in terms of gender equality, which unfortunately is still to be fulfilled, also in this partnership. this is a public-public partnership of the utmost importance. the science of measurement is in all spheres of our lives and i believe that we have an urgent need to implement this proposal.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is providing almost eur 10 billion in funding for 10 institutionalised european partnerships under the horizon europe programme. at this session we will vote to launch the european partnership in metrology, which will enable us to develop public policies and address socio-economic and environmental challenges. through this partnership, we will mobilise up to €300 million. we know that in the last decade the usa, china, india have increased their investments in metrology by between 50% and 60%, and in order to maintain europe's competitive edge in this area, it is essential that the european partnership in metrology:- 1. develop, by 2030, new research capacities within the new european metrology networks; - 2. by 2030, support the sale of new innovative products and services; - 3. contribute, by 2030, to the development and implementation of specific standards and regulations and - 4. contribute to the achievement of the european union's digital and green transition objectives. i am confident that this partnership will be transparent and that the calls for proposals in the field of metrology will be published on the horizon europe portal. i wish this partnership success.
mr president, in some member states, deaths from covid-19 are increasing. it is worrying that the vaccination rate in these states is below 35%, as is the case in romania, my country. much of the blame for this low rate lies with the alarmist news media, in which people without medical training express their personal opinions as scientific postulates. aggressive campaigns on social media platforms create even more confusion among the population. nothing is more important than freedom of speech, but we must make a clear distinction between opinion and scientific evidence, and emphasize it as such. it is imperative that we take serious measures to ensure that these disinformation campaigns do not become a threat to people's health and lives.
mr president, our citizens have recently learned of a new danger: the possible collapse of the energy grid. in eastern europe, highly vulnerable to the prospect of a prolonged blackout, the warning created turmoil and even panic. many people started to stock up and buy generators. such an event, we are told, could occur in the near future, perhaps even this winter in some states, and experts warn that a widespread blackout is more likely than ever today, because of the increased frequency of atmospheric and climate anomalies, a green hill without a real energy safety net, skyrocketing prices and russia's dirty tricks, which we continue to treat with gloves. a prolonged blackout in any area of europe would have effects on the entire union. i therefore ask the commission to analyse the risk and, if it is real, to take immediate action, to identify the causes, to ensure that renewable energy - which unfortunately fluctuates - has access to european networks, to even consider postponing some of the measures provided for in the new green strategies and to launch an information campaign for the public.
mr president, dear european citizens, under the current leadership of ursula von der leyen, the european union is transitioning from a democracy to a tyranny. by imposing the mandatory digital covid certificate on people, the eu is becoming the graveyard of fundamental human rights. this digital certificate is the precursor of the chinese communist social credit system, which is already proposed by the commission under the label of european digital identity. initially, the european bureaucracy said that this certificate is needed to ‘facilitate freedom of movement’. now, people cannot freely exercise their fundamental rights in the eu unless they have a digital certificate, which is obtained in one case by vaccinations against covid-19. we know for a fact know that these vaccines have side effects. when there are risks, people have to have choices, which is why i call today on the european commission and this parliament to immediately abolish the mandatory digital covid certificate so that people can freely exercise their rights and pursue happiness in a europe that is supposed to be an area of freedom and not a prison.
mr president, i would like to bring to the attention of the european parliament a subject which is unfortunately being forgotten. more than 100 km from the border of the european union, we still have a frozen conflict, maintained by the russian federation, on the territory of the republic of moldova. i believe that as a forum for human rights worldwide, we have an obligation to act and to support the almost half a million citizens of the republic of moldova who are being held captive by the russian federation army illegally present on the territory of this european union neighbour. we have an obligation to send a strong message to the commission to investigate the human rights situation in this region, because citizens often feel protected only by civil society, and parliament has an obligation to take note of this reality and act immediately. i call on the commission to act swiftly!
mr. president, i would like to talk about the covid curtain in the european union, which is clearly forming. covid is testing our resilience, and no doubt our ability to provide a good service to our citizens and also to ensure their safety. the situation is still clearly not under control, and we have states in the european union where covid is showing alarming numbers. once again, we are seeing patients being transported across europe between many countries, and it seems that the worst is yet to come. we have winter and spring ahead of us. the unvaccinated are a very serious problem indeed, and we are really seeing a new covid curtain, similar to the iron curtain, emerge. what can we do? fight against disinformation. we have set up the hera office, we need a truly resilient health union, that's key, and self-sufficiency, available substances, medicines. covid is not over. let's do more of this.
that concludes this item.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, thursday, november 11, 2021, from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the first item on the agenda is as you can also read on the internet the commission statement on the outcome of the eu-us trade and technology council (ttc) (2021/2934 ((rsp)). i would like to point out that you can use your voting machine to request spontaneous messages and blue cards - not by hand, but with the voting machine - after you have inserted your voting card into the machine. you should therefore always carry your voting card. in the plenary, instructions for this are provided on each table. if you wish to register for a spontaneous debate, you can do so without waiting for the debate to end. i would also like to point out that the plenary sessions will continue to be held at the central podium. this does not apply to spontaneous speeches, blue cards and rules of procedure speeches. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to go to the podium or be escorted there if you are due to speak.
executive vice-president of the european commission. – mr president, honourable members, before going to the trade and technology council itself, let me first zoom out and outline why the year 2021 has been a landmark year for transatlantic relations. we have successfully pressed the reset button with the biden administration. after the grounding of the airbus—boeing dispute at the eu—us summit in june, we also agreed to hit the pause button on the steel and aluminium trade dispute. our agreement includes starting discussions on the new global arrangement on sustainable steel and aluminium. of course, we remain attentive and active on a number of us policy developments that may affect eu interests. those could be the increase of the us domestic content via the reinforcement of ‘buy american’ or the use of tax incentives, for example for the purchase of electrical vehicles. but overall, it is clear that our trade and investment partnership remains a global engine of prosperity. beyond resolving our trade disputes, we must create space to find new avenues of cooperation and deal with the challenges and opportunities of the future. in this respect, the first meeting of the trade and technology council (ttc) at the end of september represented an important step in the right direction, as well as an important political signal. we are ready to lead the way in setting the standards and rules for the technologies of the 21st century, putting our core values at the centre. we are addressing environmental challenges and market opportunities for clean technology, and we are ensuring more resilient and secure supply chains, in particular in semiconductors, pharmaceuticals and critical materials for our economies. the trade component of the ttc is of particular importance, and we have determined shared principles and areas for export control cooperation, especially on dual—use technologies. we also agreed to cooperate on best practices in investment screening, for example, on risk analysis and risk mitigation, in relation to sensitive technologies. there will be a special focus on smes and on policies that can accelerate their uptake of digital technologies. we will work together on global trade challenges like non—market economic policies and practices, the protection of labour rights such as combating forced and child labour, and addressing trade—related aspects of climate and environmental action will also be part of our work. finally, we aim at avoiding unnecessary barriers to trade in new technologies while respecting our regulatory autonomy. we have thus set in motion a whole range of work strands that we will now pursue with vigour. to ensure concrete progress, we will meet regularly at principals’ level. the next meeting is scheduled for spring 2022 in the eu. there is strong willingness on both sides of the atlantic to make our cooperation in the ttc a success. we are counting on your support for this. members of the european parliament, but also national governments, are essential in raising awareness around the fact that the benefits we gain from transatlantic cooperation will also require some compromises. we are committed to providing the european parliament with information on the work of the ttc and we are committed to a transparent and inclusive engagement with key stakeholders and civil society at large. stakeholder engagement also figured prominently in the first ttc meeting. last month, the commission also opened a one—stop shop to collect continuous stakeholder input on the platform called futurium. i strongly encourage you to promote this point of contact among your constituencies and stakeholders. we also encourage stakeholders on both sides of the atlantic to join forces and, wherever possible, work together to shape joint transatlantic positions. executive vice-president vestager will now provide you with more input on the technology side of the trade and technology council.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for the invitation to come here with valdis to have this exchange and to debrief you on the first meeting of the trade and technology council (ttc). our digital partnership with the us plays an important role in enabling us to deliver on what we have set up for this digital decade. we have an opportunity to set a vision for a democratic and human-centred digital transformation, both at home and obviously also around the world. and following the successful first meeting in pittsburgh on 29 september, i think it is clear that the ttc has a huge potential. we spent one and a half days together with us secretary of state antony blinken, us secretary of commerce gina raimondo and us trade representative katherine tai. we had positive, frank, direct discussions. we do not always agree on every topic, but i think that shows that we are not just a talking shop: we aim for concrete deliverables for making progress on the issues at stake. now the ttc will focus on the actions identified in the joint statements, where the 10 working groups have been given specific tasks. valdis has taken you through a number of these very important points. so let me just briefly touch upon three areas of particular importance when it comes to the technology side of the trade and technology council. first, on artificial intelligence, we agreed in pittsburgh to develop trustworthy ai to oppose the use of ai that violates fundamental rights. to achieve this, we will develop mutual principles, concrete implementation tools and also value-based innovation projects. and i think this outcome shows that there is no transatlantic contradiction between promoting innovation and protecting our fundamental values. second, on semiconductors, we will work on rebalancing global supply chains with a view to enhancing security of supply, both for the us and, of course, the european union. we will, as a first step, jointly identify gaps and vulnerabilities behind the current chip shortage, sharing our assessment of information collected from industry. as the next step, we will discuss how to cooperate in our respective investment strategies. we both want to strengthen our domestic capacities while sharing the aim of avoiding a harmful and expensive subsidy race. we need to diversify our sources of supply to avoid single points of failure, ensuring that we can rely on them also in times of crisis. i think that is a very important lesson that we all learned from the pandemic. last, on platforms, the pittsburgh statement shows that we have built consensus on a set of common challenges, but also shared concerns. these concerns have even been, i think, more relevant after the testimony of frances haugen in this house earlier this week. as a first step, we will work with the us on urgent topics such as algorithmic amplification, transparency and data access to platforms by researchers. both sides have committed to robust and continuous engagement with a broad range of stakeholders, including civil society, to ensure that there is sufficient buy-in, ownership, so the outcomes of the cooperation will have real effects on ground. for this to be successful, it requires the close involvement of the european parliament, and as valdis just said, we really welcome the strong support for the ttc, also shown by the visit of several committees to washington dc last week. as valdis said, next spring in europe, the venue and the date have not been set yet, but it will be here within the union. and of course we hope to keep our engagement with this house ahead of this meeting.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would say to the executive vice—presidents that we indeed support the trade and technology council. let me make three remarks. one, this is a discussion forum, as executive vice—president vestager said, to have an open and frank discussion. it is not a t—tip reloaded. it’s a totally different child, and this is really important to have in mind and also to make public. second, it’s really important to set the impact for the challenges of the future specific to the field of trade – so standards on artificial intelligence, the question of subsidies, the question of export controls. all this has to be discussed, to give also some input to global trade, to the world trade organization. thirdly, we will scrutinise this process as a parliament in the committee on international trade and in parliament in general, because transparency and the involvement of stakeholders is really important in this process. that’s also a lesson learned from the t—tip exercise.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, executive vice—presidents, it is good that the trade and technology council (ttc) had a successful start. the first ttc meeting in pittsburgh, however, does not mark the end of our trade controversies with the us. it doesn’t even mark the beginning of the end, but hopefully it marks the end of a new beginning in sorting out some of the issues. this assessment is borne out by what we see as a result of the recent trade and aluminium deal that you negotiated, executive vice—president. this is a welcome result, even though it is weaker than we had hoped and issues do remain. even more important strategically, i believe, is the standard—setting dimension going forward. shaping the future, not just sorting out legacy issues. and there we have to work very diligently with the us because this is of geopolitical relevancy. and if you allow me to say that, in the spirit of geopolitical responsibility, wouldn’t it make sense if there would not just be the american secretary of state, but also our foreign minister?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the talks of the delegation from the house commerce committee in washington last week made it clear that the ttc is perhaps the most important mutual effort to re-examine us-eu cooperation that is currently visible. at the same time, it has become clear that the most important issue for the united states is the united states buy american. the second most important issue for the us is china strategic and systemic rival. the importance of the partnership with the eu is measured by whether the eu is prepared to follow american interests as an economic competitor, and also by how the eu is prepared to side with the us in the conflict with china. the ttc is now placed in this context, and given the planetary interests - with glasgow in mind - we must use the remaining time intensively to identify common interests. the ttc will only be fruitful if it does not become a body for securing global dominance in technology and industry, but with its working groups, with the broad stakeholders it is intended to bring, the consultations and exchanges of views will serve as a real forum for dialogue on sustainability and overcoming poverty. why should we not adopt the american ideas for a trade policy which puts its workers at the centre? we just need to re-shape it so that it serves the working people in all countries of the world. however, many fear that the ttc format will be hijacked by traditional power and corporate interests. in ttip, the proposed regulatory cooperation was a focus of public criticism. with ttc, the idea is back, but without a trade agreement.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, having an open forum for discussion with the united states after years of closure and misunderstanding is a great step forward, which i congratulate the commission on. i have some questions, however, on which i hope the vice-presidents will have something to say, because almost a month after the first meeting i am still wondering what the true nature of this trade and technology council is. is it a forum for mediating on thorny legislative issues, or is it simply a place for discussion? is it a tool for exchanging ideas or do you want a basis for a future transatlantic agreement? in short, if the commitments made are not binding, as has been repeatedly stated, what is the level of commitment and commitment of the partners, especially in relation to certain collective challenges such as measures to limit emissions or artificial intelligence? finally, what role does the commission see for parliament in all this? because we haven't been very involved in this forum so far.
mr president, i would like to be clear, i think that only together will the eu and the us influence global rules in the decades to come. i think that we currently see that our combined share of economic output is shrinking. our democratic allies are fewer and fewer. and even after the election of president biden, both of us engage in avoidable mistakes. i think we need each other, and this is why the trade and technology council is too important to fail. now it is up to us to use windows of opportunities. and i think one such window, as executive vice-president vestager mentioned, is now open on artificial intelligence. many experts agree that on ai, guidelines and the public also demand more oversight. so let’s make ai and other digital matters our early successes, hopefully opening the door for other topics with more complicated pasts. we, in the european parliament, are ready to engage with congress and citizens to make these issues a success.
mr president, commissioner, establishment of the trade and technology council (ttc) between the eu and united states is highly welcomed. it provides a valuable platform to cooperate on the topical matters of today in tech and trade issues, as well as to strengthen transatlantic relations. we are living in the interconnected world, which underlines the importance of cooperation. to give an example, the world is changing due to the emergence of ai. it is important that we discuss advantages of ai and ensure that it is utilised in a responsible, transparent way in accordance with universal human rights: ai that helps to protect democracy and not counteract it; human—centred ai that improves health and does not cause mental sicknesses. another example to show that the world can’t afford trade barriers that hinder green tech to help the climate crisis. because the work of the ttc encompasses topics that are political and dealt with also in the european parliament, it is crucial that parliament be informed about progress and the work of the ttc. let me finish here, as the vice—chair for the us delegation and transatlantic legislators’ dialogue, that committees involved have agreed to establish a subcommittee to follow the work on the ttc to complement the scrutiny work of the committees.
mr president, i was also in washington last week as chair of the special committee on artificial intelligence in a digital age (aida) and with colleagues from across this aisle – an outreach mission, which we had wanted to do since the inception of the aida mandate. our aim was to set the basis of a dialogue with the us congress on artificial intelligence in the impact of frontier tech on the world of tomorrow. but the launch of the trade and technology council (ttc) just weeks before opened up a broader perspective of transatlantic leadership on technology, on a shared realisation that the future of our relationship will be more and more dominated by tech cooperation, by what we will accomplish in converging standards, research, data governance and on developing mutually beneficial projects. and i congratulate the commission for the launch and for how the ttc was organised. there are many commonalities at the heart ttc: common values, same challenges and opportunities, and most importantly, we see the geopolitics of technology in the same way. but there are also differences, which we need to acknowledge and learn to work with. we see the urgency in the form of regulating and digital platforms differently. we also have a different approach to how to prepare standards. we are more top-down while they work more bottom-up, co-creating together with the industry. we must accept these different regulatory cultures and in fact take the best from each other. i think we can and should work more with the business sector like the americans do, while we can share with them the very good work that you the commission has done in preparing the legislative landscape on digital issues. and most importantly, and we have made this point very forcefully, we must build a parliamentary dimension of the ttc, one where we can come together as legislators and exercise oversight and political guidance on the evolution of the council.
president, i think we can all agree that after trump, we need to work with the current biden administration on a positive agenda for the future. this means not only solving problems, for example in the steel and aluminium sectors, but also setting a positive agenda with issues of importance for our future. the eu-us trade and technology council is therefore very important. we all know that technology such as artificial intelligence can be used to help us achieve our future and the well-being of our people. however, this technology can also be used for a wide range of other purposes. it is therefore essential that democratic societies such as the united states and europe cooperate in this area and not leave it to societies that use the relevant technology for spying or large-scale surveillance of their populations. this democratic control must also be possible from the european parliament. this is very important to further strengthen the support.
mr president, today is 11 november, it’s remembrance day, the day that weapons stood still in europe. i think it is time to remember that, because working together on trade and technology is also about peace, not only about the economy. it will help us win an international competition with china and neutralise its ever-expanding power on the world stage. it is time we fought together unfair trade practices such as theft of intellectual property. it is time we established clear and strategic standards for the use of artificial intelligence so that we have to fight human rights violations through mass surveillance. the covid-19 pandemic has shown us how fragile the global production systems are, and we need to build resilient and sustainable supply chains for tomorrow. i’d like to paraphrase the 1992 us elections by saying ‘it’s not only the economy, stupid, it’s also peace’.
mr president, eu-us relations are back on track and that’s exactly where they belong. with the grounding of the airbus-boeing dispute and the suspension of the section 232, the tariff conflict, we can once again focus on building rather than on repairing. it is the mark of good policy not to let the perfect be the enemy of the better. you have taken your responsibility in doing so and created the basis between punch-all effects from trump’s divisive trade policies for good. we look forward to seeing tangible results coming out of the ttc, in particular in the fight against distortive trade practices and subsidies. and we hope this can give impetus as well to the multilateral process on this. i have said it before: when the eu and the us quarrel, beijing and the kremlin rejoice. but when the eu and the us work together on setting the standards for the 21st century, the world finally pays attention, and that is exactly the way forward.
madam president, i very much welcome the first meeting of the trade and technology council, which took place in september – something that would have been inconceivable under the previous american administration. i certainly welcome the first statement of the council, which emphasised the importance of workers on both sides of the atlantic, on shared values and also on smes and the working groups that have been set up under the council. it is striking that some elements of open strategic autonomy are clearly there in the statement – for example, balancing the encouragement of foreign direct investment on the one hand, but also investment screening. but advancing any trade agenda requires a high level of scrutiny and particularly parliamentary scrutiny. so i wish to add my voice to those who’ve already asked what the role of the european parliament is in scrutinising the work of the council and the working groups set up thereunder. finally, i would like to welcome the statement made by president von der leyen yesterday reaffirming steadfast american support for the good friday agreement and against the triggering of article 16.
madam president, commissioner, i think that no one is questioning the need for an agreement between the european union and the united states. we have failed, in my view, with ttip, and i hope we don't get to that point, and i hope we learn from what happened in the ttip negotiations. in fact, what i still see as unclear, is that it's about harmonizing standards, it's about giving up the principle that the united states holds dear, "buy america". basically we, the european union market, as the vice-president of the internal market, say we need the agreement with the united states. at the same time, we need equity, we need similarity, we need the support of smes, and i'm glad that it was said here that you will take this into account. but i want to know what the next steps are and how you see working with the european parliament, because i think we cannot rely only on what you discuss there without making decisions and when, what is the deadline and what are the steps we are taking to reach such an agreement.
madam president, the ttc is a great achievement and eu—us relations are critical for the common future of both the us and the eu at global level. last week i was in washington with the mission from the committee on industry, research and energy and there was openness and a warm welcome on the part of our american counterparts. but i also felt a certain level of uncertainty or non—clarity relating to the immediate objectives in several of the ten working groups that have been set up. for instance, in working group 3 on secure supply chains we are right now at the phase that we are doing mapping and the exchange of information. we are talking about the us and the eu chips act, but it’s more like mirroring things rather than having an integrated approach. so what i am kindly asking you is, how do you perceive the kind of cooperation that we had, for instance with pfizer—biontech, when the subsidies played together? is that the future that we can see in terms of objectives?
mr president, i supported this report because it is essential that this forum remains a sentinel that sounds the alarm when freedom of expression is threatened and we have today around the world situations where journalists are intimidated, where clans that get their hands on interests that are corrupt threaten journalists. that's why, because this report focuses on strategic action in the courts against public mobilisation that harasses journalists, activists who fight for the truth. in this regard, it is essential that the european union, the commission prepare new tools to protect journalists in the european union who feel threatened by power-sharers or interest groups. it is fundamental that we remain a forum that defends this fundamental right as freedom of expression.
mr president, i supported this report because i believe that education is the engine of progress in a society. our children deserve to live in a united europe, and unity and solidarity start with education. and that's why i think we need to be supportive, to support proactive citizens, not those who don't understand the mission of our society. this is why i believe it is necessary for the commission, together with the member states, to create a common framework for learning about the european union. all pupils should be familiar with the european institutions and main policies, and with the inherent rights and obligations of european citizens. we need a quality pan-european education system that encourages the study of europe's history and cultural heritage, that promotes a collective european memory and a critical historical awareness, based on the fundamental values on which the european union is founded.
mr. chairman, colleagues, i voted against this resolution because it is a symbol of the far-left progressive ideology that is being imposed in this chamber. not only that, but it's also apparently the hobby of this room to blame everything on the government of poland, which is conservative, which is traditional, which protects the family and traditional values. this resolution, like many before it, actually serves this ideology that says that maybe the family and children are some kind of burden that we need to get rid of, and that it can be a matter of public debate and public insistence whether a family should have children or not. each member state has the right to define its own health policy and it must promote both maternal and child health and not be a propaganda that imposes some nasty, extremely dangerous and harmful ideas. the resolution is, above all, contrary to the european treaties.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted today in favour of the european parliament's resolution which criticises in clear terms the de facto ban on abortion in poland. i believe that the ruling of the polish constitutional court, which has long since lost its political independence under the autocratic rule of the pis government, represents a blatant interference with the sexual and reproductive health of countless polish women and poles. women and girls, who may be in a difficult personal situation, are being denied the right to make their own decisions about their bodies. i deeply regret that the polish government has still not taken any initiative to provide these people with access to adequate health care, despite international calls for it. this is forcing thousands of women to travel abroad to seek help. the commission is urged to put an end to this discrimination.
as regards today's and yesterday's partsession, the minutes will be submitted to the european parliament for approval at the beginning of its next part-session. if there are no objections, i shall immediately forward the resolution adopted during this part-session to the persons and bodies referred to in the resolution.
the sitting of parliament is adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 11 november 2021.
good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and good evening to you. i would like to thank the vice-presidents, the group chairmen, the political groups and the administration for opening this plenary session. i was unfortunately absent because of illness, i had a very bad case of pneumonia, but parliament's work continued and i would naturally like to thank everyone for that.
the minutes and approved texts of the meetings of 10 and 11 november 2021 are available. are there any comments? there are no comments and therefore the minutes are approved.
the commission has also received comments from the spanish authorities, the spanish authorities and the spanish authorities.
the ppe, s&d and renew europe groups have informed me of some decisions to amend the appointments to committees and delegations. these decisions will be entered in the minutes of today's sitting and will come into force as from this announcement.
following the decision of the itre committee to open interinstitutional negotiations under rule 71 (1), announced on wednesday 10 november, i have not received any request for a vote. the commission has therefore already been able to open negotiations.
several committees have decided to open interinstitutional negotiations under article 71 of the regulation. the reports, which constitute the mandates for these negotiations, are available on the plenary website and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. a number of members or one or more political groups equal to at least the average threshold may request in writing, by midnight tomorrow, tuesday 23 november, that decisions on the opening of negotiations be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in the house is received within the said time limit, the committees may enter into negotiations.
in accordance with rule 72 of the rules of procedure, the juri committee decided to open interinstitutional negotiations prior to the council's first reading. the position adopted by parliament at first reading, which constitutes the mandate for these negotiations, is available on the plenary website and its title will be published in the minutes of the sitting.
the empl committee has tabled a correction to a text approved by parliament. in accordance with rule 241 (4), such an amendment shall be deemed to have been approved unless, within 24 hours of its announcement, a political group or a number of members equal to or less than the low threshold request that it be put to the vote. the correction is available on the plenary website and the title will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
i would like to inform the house, and this is the last announcement, that on wednesday i will be signing, together with the president of the council, four acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of parliament's rules of procedure. the titles of these documents will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
let us now get down to business. the final draft agenda, as amended by the conference of presidents by written procedure on friday 19 november, pursuant to rule 157, was distributed. no request has been received for changes to the final order of business. i would inform you that the votes are divided into several voting rounds, depending on the number of amendments and the number of requests for separate votes and for separate parts. please note that this breakdown may still be subject to change. information on the distribution of votes is available on the european parliament's website under the heading 'priority information and documents'. the agenda is therefore approved.
good afternoon, colleagues. the next item on the agenda is the oral question to the commission on the introduction of a european social security passport to improve the digital application of social security rights and fair mobility (o-000071/2021 - b9-0041/21). it is the responsibility of the committee on employment and social affairs. i would remind members that in all debates at this part-session there will be no catch-the-eye procedure and no 'blue card' questions. in addition, as in recent sessions, remote interventions are now planned from the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states. i would also like to remind you that speeches in the chamber will continue to be made here from the central platform. i therefore invite you to follow the list of speakers and to approach the podium in accordance with the procedure you are familiar with.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me first thank honourable members for their very strong interest and support in the further digitalisation of social security coordination, which is also part of the broader goal to accelerate the european digital transition. the delivery of digital public services is crucial to improve public sector efficiency and respond to evolving citizens’ needs and requests for more efficient interactions with administrations. the digitalisation of social security coordination is key to ensure the effective portability of social rights and therefore contributes to fairer mobility. the digitalisation of social security coordination should take place within the overall digital transformation of public administration across europe, while taking into account the constantly evolving labour markets with a view to ensure a fair and sustainable mobility for workers. this is particularly relevant for workers and citizens who, in view of exercising their right to free movement, still need to deal with paper—based procedures, for instance to prove that they are covered by the social security of their home country. a new system will also facilitate and simplify business for those enterprises that provide cross-border services in the internal markets. to address these challenges, we announced in the european pillar of social rights action plan the launch of the european social security pass project, first as a pilot project. this intends to substitute the european social security number initiative, which was discontinued following thorough assessments, as you may have also seen in the documents that my services shared with you. in 2018, the regulatory scrutiny board gave a very negative overall opinion on this project by the previous commission. the european social security pass pilot project is exploring a digital solution to facilitate interactions of mobile citizens with social security institutions, healthcare providers, labour inspectorates and other relevant actors across europe, thus allowing the cross-border verification of their social security coverage and entitlements. this will be relevant for the portable document a1 in the framework of the ongoing coordination of social security systems. the aim is not to create new rights, but to facilitate and simplify the portability of social security rights and thereby contribute to the exercise of the right to free movement of people. notably, the portability of social security entitlements, which is enshrined in the eu’s social security coordination rules and prevents people from being left without protection in cross-border situations, is key to ensure that workers’ mobility is fair. aspects related to labour law and working conditions are outside the scope of this project, but it should be recalled that a number of concrete instruments and policies have been developed over recent years in the field of labour law and working conditions, such as the recent creation of the european labour authority, the european platform tackling undeclared work, and the adoption of the transparent and predictable working conditions directive that will enter into force next year. the commission stands firm in its commitment to upholding eu legislation and continues working with the member states to ensure that the relevant rules are correctly transposed and applied. we are working on the s—pass project based on the lessons learned from setting up other digital systems in the field. we aim to leverage and build on other relevant initiatives, such as the single digital gateway regulation and possibly the proposed eu digital identity framework. we have also paid very close attention from the outset to technical feasibility, as well as to the concrete, political and financial commitment of the member states. it is obvious that data protection plays an essential role in the whole approach. the assessment of the results of this pilot phase – to be completed, i would like to say by the latest 2023 – will feed into our future initiative. the pilot, which started in march 2021, is led by the commission and the italian social security institutions. i am pleased to note that so far 14 countries have expressed their interest in the project, but i also have to say that i regret to see that none of them have committed to participate in the testing of the solutions with the italian social security institutions. a further commitment of the member states and their institutions, including the testing of the envisaged solution, is therefore essential for the pilot project to progress and finally to come to a final system. it is of paramount importance that member states commit to the full implementation of this pilot project as a preliminary step for the introduction of the fully fledged digital system we all want. therefore, the commission is actively calling on the member states to join the project and to be more deeply involved in its activities. their early involvement and active participation would be instrumental in assessing their national capacities and constraints, and we all know that all social security in the member states is very specific. as you may know, this was a key message that i conveyed to the eu labour ministers during the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council meeting on 15 october this year – a few weeks ago. moreover, i will also send a new letter to the ministers responsible for employment and social affairs to reiterate and forcefully confirm such a call. i count on parliament’s continuous support – as expressed today, i hope – in view of taking a decisive step towards the digitalisation of social security systems and towards a more efficient and fairer system of workers’ mobility. in this regard, i would also like to thank you for your work on the draft resolution on s—pass, calling for an ambitious initiative to improve the digital enforcement of social security rights.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, thank you commissioner. next month we will be celebrating the fifth anniversary of the commission’s proposal for the revision of social security coordination. it is not exactly a reason to pop the champagne, however, because after five years we still haven’t found an agreement on the topic. so luckily, the work on this oral question and the resolution went a lot faster, which shows, i think, the great unity, at least, there is in this house to work on the issue of social security coordination and to see also the added value of digital tools and solutions in the field of that coordination, because it simply makes a lot of sense. digitalised procedures will improve enforcement, combat abuse and fraud and make cross-border operations easier and less burdensome for workers and employers. we want to facilitate free movement in a fair european labour market, and in that light i welcome the commission’s pilot project on an essp. it’s an innovative idea that needs to be looked at carefully and has great potential, but especially for those colleagues in this house who already want to be more ambitious compared to the commission, it’s something that we really need to look at carefully. the technical feasibility and the costs are one aspect, but we also need to look at the wider data protection implications, the principle of non-discrimination, proportionality and the legal eu framework for all this. so the pilot project, together with the targeted impact assessment on the essn that the commission finally made public today, is very important, and i really echo what the commissioner said: we really need more member states to join the pilot project. the more member states join, the more representative it becomes, the better it will help us to feed this into a well-designed legislative proposal, which is really necessary.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. european cooperation is based on the principle of free movement. it has created growth and prosperity across borders for decades. but free movement has also led to social regression, with many hardworking europeans experiencing downward pressure on their wages and working conditions. fortunately, it's not a law of nature. it doesn't have to be like this. social regression can be turned into progress. free movement can become fair movement. but it requires political will. in the city of copenhagen, political will resulted in an experiment with id cards on several public buildings. it has eased the scrutiny of the authorities and exposed fraud. in fact, it was so successful that the arrangement is now permanent. even the companies were happy about it, because the easy control eliminated all the cheating companies. but social dumping is not a problem we can solve with a "vupti". it is the long, arduous process of organization, legislation and control which can slow down development and ensure that workers have a decent wage and decent conditions. yet, an id card has proved to be low-hanging fruit that we have not yet picked. we should therefore follow in the footsteps of copenhagen and its experience. we should follow the lead at european level and introduce an id card for all the many europeans who work in a country other than their own. this will make it easier for the authorities to check that the rules are being complied with. it will lead to fewer people being cheated by greedy employers. and in doing so, we can put an end to the downward pressure that hardworking people are experiencing on their pay and working conditions. i therefore hope that a majority in the european parliament will help to put pressure on the european commission so that we can, with an id card in the toolbox, make a start on making free movement fair.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, mobility is at the heart of the european union and it is one of its key values. the debate today is not just on a pass of some sort. it’s about helping us envision how we can help more than 10 million citizens – mobile workers, especially cross-border, frontier and seasonal ones – from all corners of europe, of all ages. they are the ones that suffered, and still suffer, the most from the covid-19 pandemic and the restrictions thereby. for europe it was clear even before covid-19 that the current lack of accurate support and information for, and from, mobile workers in europe is a major liability for everyone – the workers themselves, employers, and the member states – and the pandemic has made everything worse. today, we are adding an integrated piece to the social security part of the discussion: the european social security pass, a piece that will benefit these workers, improve labour mobility and provide all stakeholders, including businesses, smes and employers, with clear information predictability, simplify administrative procedures and time efficiency. imagine having a qr code that will provide the information on your social security rights. imagine having a digital tool that allows real-time verification of identity, place of work, place of employment and employment relationship, as well as social security benefits. the european social security pass should be that digital solution, in full compliance with data protection rules, which will take us one step closer to social security coordination.
mr president, it is shocking to see from plenary to plenary proposals put forward by the european commission that are leading to the chinafication of the european union, where people are stripped of their basic fundamental rights and a chinese-like social scoring system is applied. we heard today that the reason why this system is implemented is to facilitate the freedom of movement. we heard the same narrative when the green certificate was implemented, and we see today in the european union people who cannot go to a store or even enter the european parliament to exercise the rights that they received from the people who elected them. the introduction of the european social security pass system is another step towards a centralised, bureaucratic, unaccountable mass control of the european citizens. this means more power to the unelected bureaucrats and less rights for the people. we must not forget that the eu is an area of freedom, and we must fight to protect that.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the free movement of workers is a fundamental right guaranteed by the treaties. as a result, more than 17 million european citizens live in a country other than their country of residence and more than 70% of them are employed. romanians are the largest national group of mobile citizens in the european union, representing almost one fifth of the resident population in the country. given the continuously growing number of mobile workers, we need to ensure that their social rights are respected, and this can no longer be done on this scale, through outdated and non-digital systems. that is why, commissioner schmit, i believe it is essential that the commission makes a consistent effort to persuade states to implement a digital reform so that we can provide social security for all those who must enjoy cross-border security rights.
the agenda includes the report by nils ušakovs and monika hohlmeier, on behalf of the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control, on the revision of the financial regulation with a view to the entry into force of the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 (2021/2162 ((ini)) (a9-0295/2021).
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i should like to thank my co-rapporteur, you, mr nils, for your excellent and very good cooperation, and also all the shadow rapporteurs who are here today. i am glad that we have worked out a very good text together and have tried to agree on important points. the revision of the financial regulation offers the opportunity to modernise our rules of the game for the establishment, spending and control of the eu budget and to adapt them to new challenges and lessons learned. against the backdrop of 750 billion in additional funds from the corona reconstruction fund and nextgenerationeu, the requirements for transparency and verifiability of expenditure have increased significantly, especially since this area is a type of budget support within the european union. that is to say, the money goes into the budgets of the member states, and the immediate insight into what is happening with the funds - that is the challenge we now face. we must remember that the european parliament has not always been involved in decision-making, as the emergence of the corona recovery fund and ngeu shows. it must be clear that once the eu budget is adopted, parliament must have the full right to control expenditure, but it should also have the right to shape how the money is spent, as we discussed with the committee on budgets the other day. the revised financial regulation must reflect this. we therefore call for the full legal incorporation of external assigned revenue into the financial regulation, which now massively increases the eu budget in the form of ngeu. a crucial point from the budgetary control point of view is the issue of digitisation and better traceability of eu funds. i know you are behind us on this issue. but the member states, which are surprisingly always talking about digitisation, suddenly have concerns when we look at it: where has all the money gone? it is not possible at present to see simply and quickly which final beneficiary is receiving how much from the fund in total. firstly, the rules do not currently require that final beneficiaries and their economic agents - and here i mean the natural persons behind companies and conglomerates and benefiting from their support - are uniformly covered. we want to be able to see whether someone is behind 20 companies or whether a small sme is actually getting the help it really needs. secondly, it is not possible to aggregate into a total sum individual amounts of different kinds attributable to the same or a relative of an economic operator. for example, if individual persons or firms receive funds from different funds, or if several individual payments to firms belonging to the same conglomerate or economic operator are to be traced accordingly. we need to fix this. we therefore call on the commission to come forward with a proposal for an interoperable it system which will allow us to do just that: to show at the touch of a button which final beneficiaries and their economic agents actually receive how much money from the eu budget. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments which have been tabled by the committee on budgets, and i would like to ask him whether he is prepared to accept the amendments which have been tabled by the committee on budgets. the main data, such as lists of the largest beneficiaries in each member state, should also be made publicly available. of course, we will respect the full jurisprudence and the protection of data in accordance with what the ecj or the legislation requires of us. but it would also allow journalists, ngos and interested citizens to track where their tax money is going and make abuses easier and more visible. a strong concentration of eu funds in the hands of a few oligarchs in some member states and/or nepotist favours, conflicts of interest between high-level decision-makers and/or even government members, these are the things we must avoid most urgently and where we must ensure transparency at an early stage. but this is not just a question of transparency; we simply owe it to those who pay the taxes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxpayers are not forced to pay taxes on their income. they don't like to read it when it's millions of dollars going to individual beneficiaries. i think we have an important task here with the budgetary regulation: to ensure that the money is spent properly and is spent sensibly.
member of the commission. – caro presidente, honourable members of the european parliament, and in particular the rapporteurs, mr ušakovs and monika hohlmeier, this initiative report is indeed an important and relevant contribution to the commission’s ongoing work towards a legislative proposal for a targeted revision of the financial regulation. it arrives just in time to be duly considered in the finalisation of the commission proposal, together with the results of the public consultation that closed on the 1 october. first, i would like to welcome parliament’s agreement that the global overhaul of the rules applicable to the budget is not needed now, after the major revision that took place in 2018. the commission fully shares the need for a targeted revision acknowledged by the report. that is also supported by several delegations in the council. changing financial rules too often indeed creates uncertainty and administrative burden for recipients of eu funds. changes should thus primarily include alignment to the mff package. certain improvements and simplification, in particular focusing on crisis management and enhanced protection of eu financial interests, should also be included. the targeted scope of this revision should also be a key element to ensure rapid negotiation and adoption of the text. the commission’s proposal is still work in progress, and i am not in a position to speculate on the final contents. there is no need to comment in detail on all the proposals, but i would like to acknowledge the particular importance of some topics raised by the european parliament in this report, such as transparency and accountability of eu budget implementation. i confirm in particular the commission’s commitment to enhance transparency and public scrutiny on the recipients of eu funding, further improve the protection of the union budget against irregularities, fraud, corruption and conflicts of interests. the commission fully shares parliament’s objectives in this area. i would like to remind that the interinstitutional agreement contains a commitment by the commission to provide member states with an integrated and interoperable information and monitoring system, including a single data—mining and risk—scoring tool that they can voluntarily use for control and audit purposes. however, i think here in this house we almost all regret that the agreed text does not make it its use compulsory. the commission will keep doing its utmost to encourage member states to use the system, and will continue to provide training with a view to promoting its generalised application by member states. the commission, furthermore, intends to use the upcoming revision of the financial regulation as another opportunity to propose further advances on these aspects. the commission takes note of the importance for the parliament to assess opportunities to further clarify the link between the general conditionality regulation and the efficient implementation of the union budget. the commission considers that the focus should now be on the implementation of the regulation and that re—opening discussions on its substance at this stage would not be productive. the commission shares the importance of ensuring robust protection of the whole eu budget, as well as avoiding conflicts of interest in budget implementation. the commission takes note of other important topics covered by the report, such as the protection of the eu’s strategic interests, the need to address climate and biodiversity challenges, and the implementation of the european pillar of social rights. in some instances, the financial regulation may not be the most appropriate tool to address certain challenges and policy choices that belong rather to sector—specific legislation. other topics would seem to go beyond the targeted nature of this revision, and the commission is willing to revisit them at the next general revision. once again, the commission, and me personally, are grateful for parliament’s timely input into this targeted revision.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner hahn, future european rules must increase citizens' confidence in the union that money is well thought out, that it is not given to just anyone, that relationships and batteries do not matter. i hope the translators know what that is because in some countries it's very common. first, the rules need to be simplified so that more businesses and citizens can get european funds. secondly, governments that attack the rule of law must know that the european union will suspend european funds. third, we need to speed up the implementation. now it's important for states to do projects for hospitals, highways, schools and the environment. in romania, where i come from, 80 billion euros will be accessed, i hope, in the next seven years. but citizens tell me: 'but we don't see this money; applying for european funds is complicated.' therefore, countries where there are problems absorbing european money, as is the case of romania, must be helped, but they must also come to the support of the private sector with technical assistance. i'm counting on you for that. if we want to get out of this crisis, the states of this bloc of the european union must team up strongly with the european union. only then will we emerge victorious. commissioner, those who have spoken today are largely also the people involved on the budget. we would very much like the commission to stop being intimidated by the council and to play more alongside parliament, because we have the same objective in mind as you. let's make a partnership of some kind!
madam president, in the last 30 years, 400 000 farms, mostly small and family farms, and 700 000 jobs have been lost in portugal. the useful agricultural area has decreased, the concentration of production and the increase in the average area of holdings have increased. small and mediumsized farmers and family farming are facing a dramatic economic situation with rising production costs, crushing production prices and sharply falling incomes. this is a picture of decades of the common agricultural policy, of the big agribusiness of over-intensive production which gets the lion's share of the cap. the revision of the cap, which we shall vote against, does not change the essential points and does not solve the problems facing national agriculture, maintaining unacceptable inequalities in the distribution of funds and increasing the concentration of ownership and agricultural activity. another agricultural policy is needed which ensures food sovereignty, values small and medium-sized production and guarantees fair incomes to the producer.
madam president, commissioner, i want to bring up a subject which concerns me deeply and which i believe it is the duty of the european parliament to raise. in the midst of the health crisis, we have seen how the citizens of the european union have been exposed to an unprecedented wave of disinformation. our citizens are vulnerable, and that's why we need to prepare a mechanism to resist misinformation. our children need modern tools to deal with this avalanche of false information, as populist politicians, state actors like russia, are constantly misinforming eu citizens. i'm sounding this alarm because tomorrow may be too late.
madam president, we are in the fourth wave of the pandemic, we are trying to adapt and support the member states, and in most cases this help from the european union is what our countries, the countries of europe medicines, equipment, vaccines need, as is the case in my country, romania, and thank you, commissioner, for all the effort you have made in the last few weeks to help my country. our lives go on, in one way or another, with adaptations, major changes, but we have to recognize that there is an area that is in dire need of help, education. there are thousands of children, especially in poorer regions, in remote areas, who have been required to go to online school for over a year. there are thousands of children in the european union who have been deprived of access to education since the beginning of the pandemic. i think this situation needs to be addressed at european level. we need to find solutions together so that we don't sacrifice an entire generation.
madam president, dear commissioner, the protection of the fundamental freedoms and rights of every person is the foundation of the european project and the reason for the eu’s existence. the founding fathers of this european project, like schuman and adenauer, envisioned a europe where the governments and bureaucrats would work for the people, not against them, not to control them, as happened in the soviet union. under the leadership of ursula von der leyen, unfortunately, the european union is transitioning from a democracy to a tyranny, and the green certificate is proving this. from a union in which decisions are taken as openly as possible and as closely as possible to the citizens, as the eu treaty says, we are now seeing the eu becoming less transparent, with important decisions being taken behind closed doors or far away from the people. the contracts signed between eu and the vaccination companies are proving this. since we have the commissioner here, i am openly asking her to fully publish all the contracts signed between the european union and these vaccination companies so the eu citizens, as well as us meps, will know exactly what they contain.
on behalf of the the left group. – madam president, sadly, whether you’re in the commission or whether you’re a member of this parliament or if you’re a member of the council, we’ve let everyone down, sadly. we have let people down because we could have done so, so much better. will i vote against this common agricultural policy (cap)? no, i won’t, because i think i'd be letting people down again if i did that, because reverting to the status quo would be even worse, an awful lot worse, and i’ll explain why from the perspective of the people that i represent. when it comes to agricultural activity, if we scrap this cap, we scrap the mention of public goods. it will be gone. what we are voting for today is agricultural activity shall be determined in such a way that it allows to contribute to the provision of private and public goods. this is a new addition. it means we can farm for biodiversity, for carbon sequestration. scrapping the cap brings us back to the rotten status quo. in article 4(2b), for the first time, we get paludiculture mentioned. every road out of my town is either a wetland or a bogland. if we are to preserve these areas, we’ve got to do it with people. the way to do that, for me, and the way to continue food production is to develop paludiculture systems. we can now do that. when it comes to agricultural area, scrapping the cap will mean scrapping the mention of agroforestry. agroforestry, which leads to better water attenuation, fixing of nitrogen, shelter for animals and fuel. if i vote against this, i get rid of the mention of agroforestry. very importantly, and this comes down to money, on convergence if i vote against this, i vote against a move to what will be the equivalent of 90+% convergence. i will vote against raising the incomes of farmers on the average acreage from eur 5 000 to 8 000. how could i vote against that? and finally, if i vote against it, i vote against redistribution. i vote against eur 120 million being redistributed. i don't like it. it's far from perfect, but the alternative is worse.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we know that this is an important day for europe, for agriculture and for rural areas. i think i am the only leader of the group who is speaking and is present at the debate today. we in the epp group want to express that for us rural areas and agriculture are a core area. we see ourselves as the european peasant party, as the representative of the rural area in the european union. it is a great compromise by many who have worked together, and we can be proud as a parliament that this has been a team effort. we as the epp will be voting in favour of this proposal today. there are plenty of arguments for this. the first is that agriculture is not a normal market; it's not just about products. the most important product there is, healthy food. corona has taught us that we cannot depend on foreign imports for healthy food. we must ensure our own supply. the second issue is the environmental issue, which has been of great concern to us in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the council to take the necessary measures. our farmers know what to do. the good professional practice is well known there. they want to be convinced, not convicted. the third thing that is important to us is the role that agriculture plays in keeping our landscapes in order. farmers often don't want to hear that because they want to be paid for their product. i can understand that. but how can we imagine europe, the landscapes of europe, the beauty of europe, if our farmers do not take care of it? europe would lose its face and its beauty, and that too must be worth something to the state. of course, agriculture is also a future area, especially in the climate area. there's hardly an industry that captures co2 from the atmosphere. agriculture and forestry capture co2 and therefore contribute to preventing and overcoming the climate crisis. finally, farmers are rooted in their villages, in their communities, in their associations, in their communities. and, mr. häusling, it's not like in my part of lower bavaria, only orbán gets the money. no, it's normal farm families who get the money. it is family farms that are receiving the money, in large numbers, in my own country, in my own country, and i am speaking on their behalf today. and that's why i say that this contribution of our peasants must also be recognized, that they carry our societies in rural areas. the epp will support this package with full conviction.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are leaving behind us today a long, as has been said, a complex, difficult, but also a long-awaited task, which has led to the comparison of very different positions, even very distant ones, in these three long years of work, until we have reached what i believe to be a satisfactory balance, which we are handing over to the citizens of europe today. let's face it, fellas, i want to be very honest with you: everything can always be improved, everything is always improvable, you can always do better. but i think that intellectual honesty must lead us to recognize, here this morning, that the text we are about to adopt will bring important new things to european agriculture. intellectual honesty must make us recognize that the point of arrival of this work is very far from the point of departure, because a great deal has been improved thanks to the work, let me say with pride, especially of parliament, which has always worked to keep the bar of ambition very high, which has fought, we have fought, sometimes we even clashed with the council and the commission so that the expectations of the farmers, our farmers, were not betrayed. so today we are approving a good text, one which i think should make us proud of the results we have achieved. we avoided renationalisation, it was a real risk. while allowing flexibility for the member states, we have maintained a compliance check by the commission. above all, we will deliver to the citizens a cap that is, let me say, fairer, more attentive to young people, greener and, above all, fairer thanks to social conditionality, which is a result that is really - and i want to acknowledge and reiterate this with pride - due to the work done above all by our political family, my political family, the socialist and democratic group. so i think we're going to vote today on all of these achievements that we should be proud to claim. we are voting to give our farmers the answers they have been waiting for for too long, after a difficult time that has been the pandemic. and i am sure that parliament will live up to those expectations.
madam president, for three years, we have been saying that the proposal for the next cap is fundamentally flawed, that it is inadequate to fight climate and biodiversity crisis and the loss of small farmers all over europe. the text on the table today is still flawed. the commission, the council and the negotiators from this house have failed to fix it. this is not a reform, or even a stepping-stone for reform, it’s indeed a mess. since the negotiations ended, we have seen the strategic plans that member states are drafting. most of them confirm our fear that the environmental ambition will be set as low as possible. what also happened in between, in october, a big majority of you adopted a report in support to the farm to fork strategy. that report explicitly supported almost all of the targets of the strategy. how can you then support a text which makes it easy for member states to refuse the alignment of their strategic plan with the green deal? it would be completely absurd to support both the farm to fork strategy, the biodiversity strategy, and this cap. regarding the ‘new delivery model’, it will fail to tell us if the cap is actually delivering on the ground what taxpayers expect: they want more sustainable practices and more support for small farmers. the ‘performance model’ will at best be able to tell the commission if member states are sticking to their plans. this is purely an accounting exercise and there will be no consequences if the plans are terrible. so, if this cap is adopted, we are giving member states a blank check, with no guarantees of good results on the ground. as i said before, the existing draft plans show that member states will use the new flexibility to change exactly nothing about the status quo. so, it is our responsibility, as representatives of the people, to vote this cap down.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must defend the 'made in italy', defend our farmers, defend the products of our land, because a country without agriculture is a country without a future. these are the values which have inspired us to create the new common agricultural policy, which will shape the future of italian and european agriculture. the cap is one of the very few european programmes that has worked in recent years and has brought real money to our farms and our territories. it was a good thing, but it could have been a lot more. much more could have been done to avoid the 6 billion cut to italian farmers. much more could be done to cut the red tape that weighs down our farmers on a daily basis. much more could and can be done to avoid the farmers being burdened by the new green measures proposed by the european commission. europe must understand that environmental sustainability cannot exist unless the economic sustainability of farms is protected first. europe too often forgets that the first defenders of the environment are our farmers, who must be guaranteed income support to prevent the closure of farms and the abandonment of fields. much more could have been done to defend pdo and pgi products, especially after the scandalous first european green light for croatian prošek, which unfairly competes with italian prosecco and endangers protected products of origin throughout europe. the new cap also presents us with new challenges, such as the designation of meat, which affects millions of farmers and consumers. there is no meat without meat, fake meat is a blasphemy, synthetic meat made in a laboratory, in which there is not a single millimeter of meat, cannot be called meat. our farmers and consumers must be protected, not cheated to please the interests of the multinationals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. enough with the nutri-score craziness, enough with the non-alcoholic wine, enough with the insects, worms and grasshoppers you want to bring to the tables of the italians! we italians will not give up an inch in the battle to defend the products of our land, which represent a unique heritage in the world made up of identity, culture and traditions that we have inherited from our grandfathers and our fathers. long live italian agriculture, long live the made in italy!
i'm not going to let you get away with this. this debate has historic significance for european agriculture, as after three years of difficult negotiations we are reaching a compromise on a reform package for the common agricultural policy. this is our common success, because farmers and other cap beneficiaries need legal clarity and the details of the new policy model as soon as possible. the positive aspect of the new arrangements is that they leave considerable flexibility to member states in implementing the future direct payment scheme and in applying solutions such as the definition of an active farmer, the redistributive payment or the payment for young farmers, taking into account local needs and specificities. the new cap also has the advantage of proposing 'ecoschemes' and allocating at least 25% of the first pillar's resources to this purpose, with a minimum level of expenditure in each year and flexibility in how it is used. however, it is important to bear in mind and take into account the different types of risks and threats to the agricultural sector, such as the long-term effects of brexit, the negative effects of the covid-19 pandemic, or the recent surge in energy prices resulting in a large increase in the cost of agricultural production. we must also remember that the ultimate objective of the reformed cap should be to ensure the food security of the european union, the stability of agricultural markets and the viability of european farms, especially small and medium-sized family farms.
madam president, since becoming an mep, i’ve been involved in the cap negotiations, focusing on the performance and monitoring part. when summing up this new cap reform, the phrase ‘don’t let perfect be the enemy of good’ comes to mind. yes, there are issues, but supporting this cap blocks in hard-won progress. without doubt, this will be a fairer cap than the last. and again, it can be improved at national level. firstly, we are closing the gap between the goals and high and lower per hectare payments by another 20%. second, the new complementary redistributive income support for sustainability (criss) mechanism sets aside 10% of payments to further reduce inequality between big and small farmers. finally, the new framework has resulted in ireland committed to capping payments at eur 66 000. so let’s stop talking and get implementing. small and medium farmers need this increased support now.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what would have happened in the last two years if we in europe had not produced enough food for our citizens? what if, like semiconductor chips, we were dependent on raw materials, on whether or not third countries were supplying us with food? fortunately, with a genuine european policy, we have been ensuring for decades that our european farmers produce food for us. and they do this despite the fact that they - quite unjustifiably - earn on average significantly less than the average person in the population and despite the fact that they - again unjustifiably - are subject to constant criticism. we are now reforming the cap. and for those who say that we're not making much progress towards sustainability, i have to say that we will spend 10 billion euros every year in the next few years on sustainability projects in the first pillar alone. the second pillar is the agri-environment programmes. but sustainability is not just about being environmentally sustainable; it also has to be economically sustainable, which is just as important. agricultural policy is not only environmental policy, it is also economic policy. so we're going to redistribute 10% of the money from the bigger farms to the smaller ones so they have a chance, too. we must finally adjust the payments to the member states. why should anyone get more today just because he had a cow or a sheep 20 years ago? this is just nonsense. and we need to continue to have a strong rural policy to make agriculture possible everywhere in the union, even where it is difficult. we have a new model which now extends across the whole of the cap and which gives more responsibility to the states, and i really hope that the states will take up that responsibility. i want to thank all those who have worked over the last three and a half years to get us to this result, and there were many. we must therefore approve this reform today and thus give the farmers of europe security for the coming decade.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. today is the day of reckoning. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. those of us who have worked on this project know these thousands of pages. there's a lot of content packed in there. if we are to vote on this large package today, we must realize that we can only focus on the big picture now. i would like to draw attention to certain points in this package to explain my vote and the voting behaviour of my s&d group in the european parliament. this package - as i said, you can only agree to the whole package with a yes or a no - this package has good aspects, of course, of course. i would like to say that the best part of the package was created in my office, namely the social conditionality, the proposal that in future there must no longer be any possibility of harassers and traffickers actually receiving money from the eu, as if they were normal employers. this is a wonderful paper. if i could pull out this paper and approve this paper individually today, i would. i know that the whole s&d group would do the same. but we have a responsibility to look at the other papers that are beside this good paper. the worst part of this package is that 75% of the funds are still allocated purely by area. it's taxpayers' money. this is the money we earn in our member countries, the money people earn through their daily work. we do not give these funds on performance or on the basis of accuracy, but these funds are given out by the water jug. this 75% of land money is so painful because the money is not there. if we had money without end, yeah, okay, then they'd give it to them. but the money is missing somewhere else. there is no other way to achieve this reorientation. but what is really particularly serious, and i must emphasize this, is that from the outset we have not - commissioner, you know this - negotiated on an equal footing. the council is self-centred, shaped by a worldview and a view of people that is of the past. the council is in love with itself. the council, who thinks he can control everything. the council has already decided, before we have sat down for the first time at the negotiating table, in a high-level decision: there will be no binding cap. we had different heights of chairs. our seat, the seat of parliament, was smaller, and it is humiliating to have to conduct such negotiations where the council sits coldly opposite and simply says: no, we will not do it. to say no today is to say no today to the undemocratic way in which politics has been conducted here: namely, an autocratic council and a parliament which tried to do good but whose seat was unfortunately too small.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, we are at the end of three and a half years of negotiation of this reform package. it is a reform that gives more room for manoeuvre to the member states, but i am counting on you, commissioner, to ensure that the european commission keeps the common agricultural policy. we have given the new common agricultural policy a good budget again, but also some elements that bring it closer to society. the future common agricultural policy will first be fairer, it will support more small and medium-sized farmers through the redistributive payment, which is now compulsory. by introducing the definition, which is mandatory this time, of the active farmer, the money will go into the pockets of the real farmers and not into the pockets of the golf course owners. in addition, and this is something i care about and which i supported in the previous reform of the common agricultural policy, the process of convergence of subsidies between member states continues, of balancing the support given to farmers who now receive lower subsidies compared to farmers in other member states. i know that this is good news and much awaited both in romania, the country from which i speak, but also in other european countries and regions. the future common agricultural policy will be even greener. we have managed to set up an ambitious budget for eco-schemes, for agri-environment measures that will help farmers in the transition to a more environmentally conscious agriculture and biodiversity. the common agricultural policy will be even more future-oriented. we have provided more support for young farmers, measures for the digitisation of agriculture, but also for disadvantaged areas. now we need to ensure that this reform takes effect in 2023 and that farmers know what to expect and that national strategic plans are drawn up with the involvement of farmers and professional organisations. even if it is not perfect, this reform is still a step forward from the reform that i negotiated as commissioner in 2013 and that is why i will vote for it, i will support it and i ask you to do the same.
mr president, it is clear that few in the european parliament are enthusiastic about this new common agricultural policy today. some because they think it's not green enough, others because they anticipate the challenges that millions of farmers and, by extension, hundreds of millions of consumers will face. but i think after three years of basically minimizing their voice, we've finally reached the point where we have to act with the farmers' needs in mind. political ambitions we all have, but today, they must fall to second place. our responsibility is to the citizen, therefore to the consumer, and the consumer will eat what is available to him. if the farmer survives and is allowed to produce the healthy food we demand, the consumer will eat healthy food. but if we put the farmer in the doghouse, condemning him to bankruptcy or disappearance or inability to produce, then the consumer will eat nothing or, at most, food of questionable standards, imported. the reform we're voting on today is not just any reform, it's the most ambitious reform, with the most ambitious vision yet for our survival, offering the prospect of healthy food and a rebalanced environment, but it needs to be allowed to work. why would we want to reverse it now and go to extreme measures, when there's already this global trend of abandonment of villages and farms and disappearance of agricultural land? we lose seven million hectares of arable land every year - an area larger than the size of austria. why would we want to put farmers in a position where they no longer have predictability, no longer receive subsidies, risk their business, and we risk food security? why would we want to waste the last three years of negotiations and add two or three more to them for new negotiations? will the environment have a win, will the green deal have a win, will any of us have a win? i therefore urge you to vote for the new common agricultural policy. it's not the best, it's far from perfect, but it does provide predictability, and to go back to 2018 would be unforgivable.
mr president, we are finally reaching the end of a long negotiation. but what have we really learned in these years of negotiating agricultural policy? for me , it couldn 't be clearer . the coronavirus pandemic has shown us along the way that we were short of masks, but we were never short of food. that the british have had to deal with empty store shelves since brexit, but we have never had to fear shortages! it has become very clear to me in those years that we must be able to take responsibility for our own food and not become dependent on third countries, that our own food production is indeed of strategic importance and must remain so. the tension between sustainability and feasibility was a constant throughout the negotiations. there were high expectations for both the farmers and the climate. the cap is now meeting those expectations. it guarantees the farmer an income and at the same time is firmly committed to sustainability. the real game changer in this cap is the flexibility for member states to put local accents. my region of flanders is already taking the plunge and is already preparing 'pre-eco schemes', including precision and carbon agriculture. my last words are to europe's young farmers. young fathers and mothers, with children like mine. he works from early morning till late at night, she has a full-time job in the health care sector and then there's the housekeeping... an incredible entrepreneurial drive, which we must reward! however, ladies and gentlemen, we have only provided them with 3% of the funds. that's not enough. more is needed, because without farmers there is no food, without new farmers there is no independent food production!
mr president, commissioner, i am expressing my support today for the new common agricultural policy, even if it is not perfect, but i am expressing it because it seeks to improve the lives of each of us. the common agricultural policy is not just an environmental policy, it is much more than that, it concerns our whole life. for those who doubt, i urge you to do just a simple exercise of imagination about what would have happened in the last two years without the daily work and efforts of european farmers to put the necessary food on our table. the common agricultural policy aims not only to contribute to the conservation of nature and natural resources, but also to guarantee incomes and a fair living for farmers and to provide european citizens with food that is safe for their health and at affordable prices. at the same time, by redistributing funds to small and medium-sized farms, we are protecting the traditional family way of life in the european countryside without affecting the work of high-performing farms, and by encouraging young people to become farmers, we can ensure the continuity of life in this space. last but not least, through the new common agricultural policy, we are ensuring the right to a decent life by introducing for the first time social conditionalities that offer agricultural workers, including seasonal workers, guarantees on compliance with housing, working conditions, minimum wage and access to healthcare in accordance with the standards of european legislation.
madam president, minister, madam secretary, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you go. the government's overreach against roma and the police's violence against them are not new. we have to experience that unfortunately this phenomenon still exists in europe today, and in each case it is one more than is acceptable in a democratic welfare society. i find it disturbing that we don't give this phenomenon enough time and attention. in addition to the abuses across seven countries, we should be dealing with racial hatred, ethnic exclusion and violence at home, in europe, at least. we can't say that unfortunately these things happen sometimes. we cannot allow this to happen in the czech republic or anywhere else. in addition to detecting, investigating and prosecuting cases, member states have a role to play in preventing, raising awareness, combating hate speech, encouraging dialogue between communities, and integrating roma into society, and the commission should also act more quickly when it detects that police violence against roma is being covered up by some german national authorities.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, next year’s european budget is crucial for the success of the multiannual financial framework. its implementation will enable us to meet the european targets. therefore, the s&d group in the european parliament called for an ambitious eu budget, supporting a strong social recovery. and we delivered, with eur 479.4 million added to the 2022 budget at the request of the european parliament. that means more funds for health, for education, for the environment, for smes, for tourism, for social policies, for internal and external solidarity. the parliament stood united in the negotiations with the council despite some difficult moments. but the debate is not over; we still believe more could be done, and are calling for the full implementation of the mff and the recovery plans, using any unspent resources, savings or available decommitments. funds should be used to make sure no-one stays behind, like it is the case for the european child guarantee. our group is particularly supportive of the eur 211 million directed to the european solidarity fund, the resources target in the european year of youth, and those addressing social policies and rights. for my country, it is important to make sure that the additional eur 86 million for health, eur 30 million for smes, and eur 35 million for education also reach romania, and contribute to reducing regional disparities. from the european parliament, we will supervise the implementation of the budget and make sure the funds are spent in the interests of european citizens.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, an extra half a billion euro to the eu budget that's what we have achieved as parliament in 2022. the european parliament has been united, which has made us stronger, so i want to thank karlo, johan, henrike, damian, all of you who have made a strong team this year. actually, these are investments, not money that falls from the sky. every euro, for example, that goes to the eppo means millions of euros that are recovered from the eu budget. i am sending a very clear message to those who have illicit ideas with european money. hands off our children's funds, because here's their money, because i'm borrowing through the nextgeneration program and no one is taking my child's money. every euro that goes to erasmus goes back to europe, because an educated person is a person of great value for our future, and we owe a very great debt to the young people who are suffering from the covid-19 crisis. renew has also fought for something else: health and pandemic relief for the poorest countries. nearly an extra billion and a half brought these international vaccination negotiations. because we have the courage to speak about the end of the pandemic, and the end of the pandemic cannot just be the world of the rich, it must be the world of the poor. the budget is not just the money in it, commissioner, it is the reality behind the words, the expression in figures of our european morality. and next time i would like to see the commission even closer to parliament because we have the same objectives.
madam president, the question in this debate today should have been how to combat covid-19, not how to vaccinate the world. it’s not the job of the european parliament nor its duty to vaccinate the whole world. the job of this parliament is to legislate for the people and to exercise its control over how the commission is spending european citizens’ money. the problem is that as we’ve seen in the last year, none of these things happen. the green certificate was passed and commissioner didier reynders said in this plenary that this regulation should pass to facilitate freedom of movement, and we see now in europe that people cannot exercise their basic fundamental rights unless they have this green certificate. as far as budgetary control goes, since the contracts signed by the commission with the vaccination companies are not published yet, how can this house exercise its mandate? so, i’m asking the commissioner directly: who is liable in the event people have side effects from these vaccines? and lastly, when are you going to publish these contracts so that all europeans will know what they contain?
madam president, i would like to thank you. with a new fourth wave in europe, covid is now making a comeback. it is the delta variant, above all, that is behind this pandemic in the unvaccinated. the vaccine is the way out of this crisis, and we need to bring the whole world with us to stop new variants. although half the world's population has now received its first dose, it is deeply disturbing that only five percent of the poorest countries have had the same opportunity. we must therefore, in a new global effort, ensure that vaccines, knowledge and medical equipment are also transferred to the poorer parts of the world. the risk of new variants not only makes it unwise not to vaccinate everyone it is also deeply unfair. many countries do not have the same ability to allow people to work remotely and provide support to businesses and employees if they have to be at home. but it is also a matter of trust, the very foundation of multilateral cooperation. i recently returned from cop26 in glasgow and met with several delegations from developing countries who were deeply irritated, angry and frustrated that both vaccine targets and climate finance targets have deeply damaged the confidence that we are actually not delivering on these things. for global cooperation, for climate, for health, for economics, for social, it is crucial that we vaccinate everyone in the world.
madam president, commissioner, long illness is certain death, so the romanians say. the long-term illness now is not just the virus, it's misinformation. high vaccination reverses mortality, this is the report. the countries with the highest mortality rates are unfortunately also the countries with the highest levels of misinformation. we see it here in our european home, that it is intolerable how politicians in eu countries are playing circus and trying to prevent vaccination in europe. here we fight and lose important battles and they send people to their deaths of their own free will. they are apostles of hate, they are crying out hate, they show no love at all, because if they showed love to people, they would be interested in what is happening in the underdeveloped countries, that they have only 10 percent or 15 percent vaccination and they need us very much, because it is a global crisis that we do not get out of alone, only the wealthy. we here in the european union budget have gotten for you, commissioner, an extra 1.5 billion for vaccinating the world, because there are very, very big needs. but we need more for distribution, you know that very well. that's why we have to fight for this project, because we can't get out of this crisis on our own. this boat will take on water, and the principle is simple and unforgiving: no one is safe until we are all safe, jens spahn said in germany: by spring, in germany, either everyone is vaccinated and cured, or if not, there will be more and more deaths. yes, gentlemen, this is very serious. let's beat the pandemic together! we need courage, because there's no turning back. so help us god!
madam president, this is the house. the first time i saw a person wearing a mask because of coronavirus was in lesotho in february 2020. today, the european vaccination rate is over 66 percent. in africa, however, only 16 percent of the population has been vaccinated. a tragic difference! we have to recognize that the general problem in africa is the lack of security. without safety, there is no guarantee of delivery, storage, or even food supply. the only sustainable solution, alongside security, is to expand african manufacturing capacity. one example is rwanda, where the vaccine is currently expected to be produced. hungary has so far supported its african partners with more than 1,5 million doses of vaccines. in addition to building local capacity, similar offers from member states should be encouraged by all means. we need to address the factors that are holding back the growth and development of vaccination in developing countries. the administration of vaccines also requires trained health workers and adequate storage infrastructure. increasing vaccination coverage in africa is not only a humanitarian obligation but also a well-understood european interest. in african countries, europe's decisions increase trust in the partnership. but be careful, because with unfulfilling promises, you can undermine this completely.
ladies and gentlemen, before we continue with the debate, i shall now announce the results of today's voting. (the president read out the results of the first three votes) the joint draft agreed by the conciliation committee on 15 november 2021 was approved by both parliament and the council. the budgetary procedure was implemented in accordance with article 314 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2022 can therefore be considered to be concluded. i therefore declare the budget of the european union for the financial year 2022 definitively adopted and i shall now proceed to sign the budget. (the president, in the presence of mr johan van overtveldt (chairman of the committee on budgets), mr karlo ressler and mr damian boeselager (rapporteurs for the general budget for 2022) signs the 2022 budget.)
president-in-office of the council, in writing. – mr president, dear colleagues, on behalf of the council, i congratulate you for concluding your vote on the budget of the european union for the financial year 2022. the council notes with satisfaction that the european parliament confirmed the agreement reached at the conciliation committee meeting on 15 november. i take this opportunity to thank once again the chair of the committee on budgets, johanvan overtveldt, and the rapporteurs, karlo ressler and damian boeslager, as well as all other members of the european parliament who participated in the budgetary procedure, for their constructive approach.
we now continue the topical debate under rule 162 of the rules of procedure on the eu's role in combating the covid-19 pandemic: how to vaccinate the world (2021/2926 ((rsp)).
madam president, madam commissioner, as has already been said, this parliament adopted an important resolution last june on the response to the global challenge of covid-19, the debate on which, unfortunately, is still relevant because very little progress has been made since then. some of the member states of the european union are already declaring the fifth wave of the pandemic and are starting to deliver a third booster dose, while almost 50% of the world's population has not yet been able to get the first dose. global production is still controlled by the big pharmaceutical companies, which have been able to develop their vaccines rapidly thanks in large part to public efforts, but the coverage of the world population that is undoubtedly essential to combat the pandemic has not been achieved. so we need to increase global production capacity and support the temporary release of vaccines. it's about putting the cure before the disease, because either we vaccinate everyone as soon as possible or no one will be safe from the disease. the spanish government has announced the liberalization of patents for antibody tests. let him lead by example.
madam president, earlier i heard an ppe speaker say that it would take two years before developing countries could reach the production capacity necessary to justify the trips waiver – the speaker obviously forgetting that the application was made 14 months ago and that had we had the foresight to grant the trips waiver 14 months ago, we would be on the brink of achieving the production capacity through the transfer of knowledge in order to address the issues that we are all so agonised by in this chamber. as my colleague, chrysoula zacharopoulou, mentioned earlier on, only 6% of people in africa have been double vaccinated. that’s why i support the trips waiver. it’s an important moment in history, a moment that we have never experienced before. i would echo the words of dr tedros adhanom ghebreyesus, that it isn’t about all people in some countries being vaccinated, but about some people in all countries. that is the immuno-compromised, the elderly and of course, healthcare workers in some countries in the developing world that have not been reached at this time. i would also like to add my voice to that of ms trillet-lenoir, who earlier spoke up in favour of a pandemic treaty. i believe it should be accepted and promoted by the european union. i know the european council has already done so, and there will be a meeting next monday of the world health assembly, and the ambition will be to ensure that a pandemic treaty would be an additional element to address the global needs more equitably.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, 'the greatest wealth of man is health', says an old romanian proverb. the pandemic has hit the globe and all health systems, and fighting the pandemic remains a huge concern for all states until vaccination reaches a significant percentage of the population. ladies and gentlemen, the european union has played an important role in fighting the pandemic, supported the authorisation and supply of safe vaccines against covid-19, approved the new generation recovery packages, contributed the most to the covax instrument. and yet, despite this, misinformation about covid is widespread. that is why i think it is necessary for the pharmaceutical companies that produce vaccines to carry out information campaigns in each member state, and not only, to present the research that led to this vaccine, the benefits of the vaccine, to answer the questions of the sceptics, in order to increase the confidence of the citizens in the vaccine. these are difficult times, so may god bless the citizens with the wisdom to benefit from the benefits of the vaccine.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i thank you for your interventions, and let me respond now to a few of the main themes that came up. first, empowering and protecting all european consumers, especially those who are vulnerable, is paramount. the potential increase of energy poverty among europeans is a risk we have acknowledged in the recent toolbox of proposals to combat rising energy prices, and we want to use the energy efficiency directive to reduce the burden on vulnerable households in tandem with the climate social fund. energy poverty will reduce further as improvements in energy efficiency grow and as we increase our use of renewable energy across the eu. and at the same time, the hydrogen and gas decarbonisation package coming next month will also include a set of reinforced provisions on consumer protection in the gas and hydrogen markets, drawing inspiration from those applied in the energy market. second, some of you mentioned soaring energy prices. however, increasing energy prices only remind us that we remain too reliant on fossil fuels in the eu, and we know that in the medium and longer term, we will need to replace unabated fossil fuels, methane and natural gas. we expect that biogas, biomethane, hydrogen and e-gases will provide sustainable options for decarbonisation across a wide range of sectors and also increase eu autonomy thanks to domestic production. this is the context in which we are carrying out the work on the hydrogen and gas decarbonisation package. third, it’s clear that more needs to be done on research and innovation spending. on the public side, the eu’s rate of public investment in clean energy technologies is the lowest of the major economies, even lower than it was in 2010. but the state of energy union report also clearly shows that eu recovery funding that targets clean energy r&i can help reverse this trend. last but not least, many of you mentioned that we have to do more to achieve our 2030 targets. you mentioned that we need to do our utmost to remove barriers for deploying renewables. right now, the total duration of an offshore renewable energy project can be up to 10 years. if this doesn’t change, it could jeopardise the energy transition and our goal of climate-neutral europe for 2030. we need to ensure faster permitting and authorisation processes, and as part of the red simplify project, we have carried out mapping, permit-granting and grid connection procedures. this helps us identify the key barriers from process to land use and pre-connection issues. tackling this issue is also of particular importance in light of rising energy prices. mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for today’s discussion.
thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the annual state of the energy union report provides an opportunity to discuss the performance of european energy policy. the energy crisis raging across europe makes this analysis even more timely. in the light of the facts and the process, it can be said that brussels' energy policy has failed and the blindness of the left and the bureaucrats is putting the achievements of the energy union at risk. the european commission's bad decisions have led to an almost unbearable rise in energy prices. the quadrupling of the price of natural gas and the tripling of the price of electricity are a serious indication of the serious flaws in current european energy and climate policies. in order to achieve a green transition, citizens' protection and immediate changes would be needed. unfortunately, the left and the bureaucrats in brussels refuse to do this and continue to push their failed, out of touch, obsessions. countries that reduce their emissions are despised, they're working on a climate tax and they're going to unleash market energy prices on the population. in this their hungarian leftist comrades would follow them. this vision is totally unacceptable and could lead to a weakening of the energy union. the commission's commitment to respect and reach consensus on network development and emission reductions has been the key to achieving the results so far. europeans deserve affordable energy and better, more sensible climate and energy policies than they currently have.
in writing. the 2015 energy union strategy sets the objective of the energy union as to provide eu consumers households and businesses with safe, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy . i feel that this objective has never been more relevant since the energy union was set up. europe is currently facing a very serious crisis in gas prices, which have risen by as much as 200% since january this year. this situation poses a serious threat both to households, which are increasingly struggling to pay high bills, and to industry, whose competitiveness is threatened by high energy prices. we therefore need short-term solutions to protect the most vulnerable in this emergency, and long-term solutions to make the european energy market resilient. i therefore call on the european commission to come forward with proposals to support member states in responding to rising energy prices and in protecting consumers from too drastic a price increase, as well as to consider building up strategic reserves and creating a european purchasing platform.
in writing. i find both the speech by european energy commissioner kadri simson and the report to which he referred disappointing. unfortunately, the obsession with reducing emissions is stronger for the european commission than the reality of rising energy prices for citizens and businesses, the prospect of shortages of basic fuels or the lack of significant progress on energy efficiency. it is, moreover, a report containing contradictory remarks. for example, it is said that for the first time renewable energy sources have overtaken fossil fuels as the main source of energy in the eu. but that's because of the shutdown of power generation capacity, as happened in romania. it's more of an artificial shift in the market share of green energy. at the same time, the report draws attention to the eu's highest level of dependence on fossil fuel imports with a brief, yet bizarre explanation in plenary by commissioner simson: paradoxically. there is nothing paradoxical here, it is a matter of logic and understanding the geostrategic context issues unfortunately foreign to such an important decision-making area in the european commission.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on fundamental rights and the rule of law in slovenia, in particular the delays in the appointment of european prosecutors (2021/2978 ((rsp)). i would remind all members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for all the discussions of this part-session, nor will there be any blue-card questions. in addition, remote assistance is also provided by the parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, prior to my intervention, let me make a short notice from the presidency on the eu budget vote. at the beginning, i would like to inform you that, after the announcement of the plenary vote on the eu budget 2022, the presidency delivered, on behalf of the council, a statement on the budget vote in a written form congratulating you for concluding your vote on the budget of the european union for the financial year 2022. the council notes with satisfaction that the european parliament confirmed the agreement reached at the conciliation committee meeting on 15 november. now, coming to the today’s agenda topic, as we know, the rule of law is essential in guaranteeing that our common values are well protected and complied with, ultimately ensuring the very functioning of our union. let me therefore start by highlighting the importance that the council attaches to this issue and how the presidency is committed to bringing forward exchanges in a positive and constructive atmosphere on the rule of law and related issues, while observing the principle of objectivity, non—discrimination and equal treatment of all member states. the general affairs council, in the framework of the annual rule of law dialogue, twice discussed the development in the area of the rule of law. the intention is to retain an atmosphere of trust where best practices can be exchanged and a preventive approach can be set into motion. the commission’s 2021 rule of law report fed into this key exercise. let me stress that the dialogue is of paramount importance since it allows member states to reach a common understanding of rule of law principles and to address possible shortcomings before they become actual problems. best practices, experiences and also critical remarks are exchanged. on 19 october, in a horizontal discussion on the rule of law in the eu as a whole, the council covered the general trends in the union, both positive and negative, with the aim of enabling the lessons learned and strengthening eu resilience, also in upholding the rule of law. the debate, inter alia, focused on the institutional checks and balances amidst the restrictive measures in the covid—19 pandemic, with attention to the role and responsibilities of the respective branches of power. yesterday, the general affairs council held a country—specific discussion, which allowed to cover developments and particular aspects of natural rule of law frameworks in five member states, namely croatia, cyprus, italy, latvia and lithuania. once again, the council proved a committed forum where member states can discuss various rule of law issues and learn from, and about, each other in an open, inclusive and constructive debate. coming to the situation in slovenia, we have read with great attention the relevant country chapter in the commission’s 2021 rule of law report. i quote some findings. ‘the slovenian justice system has seen some positive developments, including on issues raised in the 2020 rule of law report.’ ‘the legal and instrumental framework for preventing and fighting corruption continues to improve.’ ‘parliament continued to function after quickly amending the rules of procedure to allow for online sessions.’ ‘the financial independence of certain independent bodies has been protected by a constitutional court judgment.’ ‘to discuss the rule of law, the president of the republic convened the first ever meeting of all three branches of government.’ however, the report also acknowledged that there are concerns in regard to downward trends in certain areas. appointments of state prosecutors are unjustifiably delayed and the pandemic exposed the need to accelerate improvements to electronic communication tools. the low number of convictions for corruption cases, especially for high—level instances, remain a serious concern. the area of media freedom and pluralism faced several challenges. the report also raises concern by national and international stakeholders, following the refusal by the authorities to finalise the slovenian press agency for 2021 and the failure to timely nominate european delegated prosecutors. in this regard, i would like to highlight that the slovenian government and the slovenian press agency concluded an agreement concerning the provision of public service, thus guaranteeing financial resources to the agency. referring to the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo), i wish to draw your attention to the fact that the council attaches the greatest importance to the smooth operation of this body. the council has always supported the eppo and actively worked towards the implementation of the eppo regulation. concerning the appointment of european delegated prosecutors, i would like to remind you that the council is not involved in the procedure. the appointment is a matter for the individual member state. nevertheless, i can inform you that slovenian government nominated two candidates for appointment last week, on 19 november 2021, and, as we were informed, the eppo college has confirmed their appointment today. to conclude, let me repeat that one of the priorities of the slovenian presidency is strengthening the rule of law, which is the joint responsibility of the eu institutions and the member states. respecting the rule of law is also vital to maintain citizens’ trust in public institutions and a prerequisite for mutual trust among member states.
member of the commission. mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of the annual rule of law report, the second edition of which was adopted last july, is to monitor the situation in all the member states of the union, both positive and negative developments. this report has proved that it can serve as a basis for a genuine political dialogue on the rule of law throughout the union. let me therefore present the commission's main conclusions on the rule of law situation in slovenia, as detailed in the chapter on that member state in our annual report. as i have said on several occasions, i can confirm that i am at the disposal of your parliament to discuss the conclusions of the report on each of the member states. as regards the justice system, slovenia has seen some positive developments this year, in particular the ruling of the constitutional court that declared the rules governing parliamentary inquiries to be unconstitutional for lack of safeguards on judicial independence provides an important protection for judges. also, the judiciary initiated a discussion on improving the framework for disciplinary proceedings regarding judges. i also take note of the recent decision of the constitutional court, which clarified the guarantees on impartiality in certain disciplinary proceedings concerning judges. however, appointments of state prosecutors remain unjustifiably delayed. it is not a good sign that, since the publication of this year's report, the number of candidates for state prosecutors who are waiting for their appointment or promotion by the government has only increased, from 15 to 19. challenges remain in proceedings relating to cases of economic and financial crime. the covid-19 pandemic exposed the need to accelerate improvements regarding electronic communication tools. access to courts and prosecution documents has become a sensitive matter, leading to a supreme court judgment and to a legislative amendment. unfortunately, i also took note of another recent development, namely the seven-level budget for the justice system after the level of funds was already agreed, and without prior consultation on this change with the courts, the judicial council and the state prosecution. as regards the anti-corruption framework. the report finds that the legal and institutional framework for preventing and fighting corruption continues to improve. legislative amendments have improved the independence, organisation and functioning of the commission for the prevention of corruption, although its human resources remain limited. the same amendments have also strengthened the legal framework on lobbying, the protection of whistleblowers and declaration of assets. however, concerns remain over the effective enforcement of the anti-corruption rules, for example, on conflicts of interest and on whistleblowers. although the number of prosecutions has increased, the challenge remains, notably in terms of the capacity for effective investigations and the low number of convictions for corruption cases, especially for high-level cases. let me now turn to the third pillar of the rule of law report, dedicated to media freedom and media pluralism. over the last months, the commission had expressed concerns regarding media freedom in slovenia. those related notably to attempts to undermine the funding and independence of the national press agency staff. the commission has always made it clear that it is the duty of the slovenian government to ensure the appropriate funding for the national press agency, in accordance with national law. the national authorities must also ensure that the independence of this agency is fully preserved. we are aware that the long overdue funding for 2021 is now unblocked. the commission will nevertheless continue to monitor the situation closely with regard to both the financial viability and the independence of the agency, notably in the light of the conditions attached to the funding. it is also clear that any political attacks on independent media and individual journalists are not acceptable. regarding checks and balances, the report notes that the slovenian parliament continued to function during the covid-19 crisis after quickly amending its rules of procedure to allow for online sessions. the financial independence of certain independent bodies has been protected by a judgment of the constitutional court. this court improved its efficiency and played an active role in reviewing covid-19 measures. the rule of law report also highlights that the lack of timely appointment of european delegated prosecutors to the eppo has raised serious concerns. as you know, the operational activities of the european public prosecutor's office started on 1 june. to date, the eppo has received more than 1 700 criminal complaints and opened more than 350 investigations, representing a cost to the eu budget of around €4.5 billion. these figures are clear, the european public prosecutor's office is working, even beyond expectations, and we can welcome that. in just over five months, the european public prosecutor's office has become the leading actor in the fight against fraud and corruption affecting the union budget. so let me thank your parliament again for its constant support for the european public prosecutor's office. the commission has started a thorough assessment of the measures taken by the member states to adapt their national legal systems to this new legal reality. our objective is clear: to verify that the necessary adaptations have been put in place, that the national legal framework is in line with the european public prosecutor's regulation and that the public prosecutor's office can exercise all the powers conferred on it by the regulation. as regards the lack of designation of european delegated prosecutors by slovenia, i have been in close contact with the minister of justice as well as the prime minister to encourage them to nominate candidates. we note that the slovenian government finally submitted the names of two candidates to the european public prosecutor's office on 19 november. as you know, it is up to the college of the european public prosecutor's office to decide on this proposal, and it is important to note that the appointment of european delegated prosecutors must be in accordance with union law and respect the full independence of the european public prosecutor's office. in this respect, article 17 of the regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office provides that, i quote, 'european delegated prosecutors shall be appointed for a renewable term of office of five years'. i am pleased that the college of the eppo today appointed the two candidates for the five-year term of office provided for in article 17 of the regulation establishing the eppo, with all the necessary guarantees to ensure its independence. this means that there are now european delegated prosecutors in place in each member state participating in the prosecution. this is excellent news. the european public prosecutor's office can now function fully and we will continue to work towards the conclusion of agreements between the european public prosecutor's office and the member states which do not yet participate in the office, as well as towards the conclusion of agreements with third countries. of course, i can only urge those member states which do not yet participate in the european public prosecutor's office - respecting their choice - to consider their future participation in the activities of this new european institution.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president! four years ago, we discussed in the european parliament the case of the laundering of billions of euros of money of iranian origin in the largest slovenian state bank, with the parliament's instruction to take action by the institutions of the rule of law. to this day, no one has been held accountable for this crime of global proportions. the slovenian judges who have not bowed to the expectations of the system are subject to harassment and judicial persecution. we have first-class citizens who, because of deliberate procedural errors, escape the reach of justice, and second-class citizens who have fought for their rights for decades. slovenia has undoubtedly a number of rule of law problems stemming from the previous system. the extent of these problems was also the objective of a recent visit by the libe informal group. unfortunately, instead of addressing serious rule of law problems, they focused on the issue of delegated prosecutors and the financing of the sta. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the search for a solution has caused delays, which will not affect the efficiency of the work of the eppo in any way, if there is a will to do so. i am glad that the case has been resolved, including the sta, and that the way has been opened for the prosecution of all those who have cheated with european money and used the funds for various dubious and overpaid projects. you may wonder, then, why this item was even on the agenda today. the answer is clear. this is yet another attempt by the slovenian opposition to damage its own government. i expect such experiments, of course, in the future. they will become increasingly brutal, but also increasingly transparent, as was the last attempt by mrs fajon to so-called proofread the report on her visit to slovenia. in view of the problems currently afflicting the european union, it is unacceptable and extremely harmful for the european parliament to be used for internal political scrutiny.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, unity in diversity. colleagues, this is our slogan, and these are the words that bring us together. as a union, we are all different and it is that which makes us european. we come in different shapes and sizes because of the places we come from, but we have diverse frames of mind and opinions, but regardless of these key and sometimes fundamental differences we are all european. what binds us together are our values, those values that all of us hold as supreme and that we all agreed upon when we came together in this european project. to uphold values one thing is vital: dialogue. the ability to sit together and speak to each other and understand where we are coming from and what we want to achieve. this is what i wanted out of our mission to ljubljana to achieve, but unfortunately we were met with empty chairs. we must be able to listen to each other and not turn everything into smear campaigns and to slander and polarisation. this is why it is so important to have forward-thinking discussions on fundamental rights and the rule of law, as the commissioner said earlier on, be it in slovenia, germany, poland or in any other member state. it keeps us all on our toes striving to be better. it allows member states like my own, malta, to recognise where we can improve and make changes in order to reach a higher standard for all citizens. but in order to reach a higher standard, we must ensure a number of safeguards are in place to protect our democracies. the european public prosecutor is one of them. although it took a much longer time than expected, the nomination of slovenia’s european public prosecutor is a step in the right direction, but one which could have been made much earlier. i thank the college for their appointment today. european governments must ensure the separation of powers. european governments must ensure and must follow and abide by rulings by the courts. european governments must protect journalists and european governments must ensure diversity of opinion and freedom of speech.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i am a bit confused by mr logar’s message. we’re talking, mr logar, about six months of delay in nominating the slovenian delegated prosecutors to the eppo. we are talking about the prime minister’s direct intervention in the process. we are talking about the minister of justice resigning in protest. this was an act of obstruction of justice in slovenia and in the union, casting a dark shadow over the current presidency of the council. the consequence: investigations into serious crimes were completely blocked for all this time. back in may, mr janša sabotaged a perfectly legally conducted procedure and prevented the nominations of two highly qualified prosecutors because of their involvement in past investigations into his own assets. his pressure, through the controlled media, is in pure violation of the independence of the state prosecutor’s office. i hope the commission and the council have eyes to see and ears to listen. the scandal of nominating prosecutors is just the tip of the iceberg. mr janša is copying mr orban’s moves in making a mockery of key european values, media freedom as well. but we have now the tools to stop this kind of abuse. we prefer letters sent around confidentially, but the truth is that it is time to make that conditionality real – make it real and it will work.
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank you very much for all the input to this debate. in fact, you are in a sense preaching to the converted, if i may say, because i agree with the importance of this issue and with the need for us to all work together and for the action needed to be taken. rare diseases will remain an important focus for the commission and patients’ voices and families’ voices will continue to be central to our approach, also, in the context of the revision of the legislation on medicines for rare diseases in children, planned for the end of next year. mrs kopacz, you said that all patients, no matter where they live, should have equal access to treatment, and i would agree totally that this is not negotiable. and mrs guteland said it’s not easy to build up expertise and competence in all member states and that shows exactly the importance of european reference networks. several of you, i think it was mrs kopcińska and others, mentioned the importance that we support a european reference networks, and i totally agree. i’m working on this too. they deserve the support. i am working to find the solution. we will be supporting their further activities and looking how to do this within our eu4health programme. mrs ries, you mentioned red 2030 and i think i need to just mention here that we are already looking at the outcomes of this study, and i am pleased to note that many of these recommendations of the study are already being taken on board. mrs metz also mentioned the european reference networks, and several of you, and i made some notes here, spoke about rare diseases in the forms of paediatric cancers. i know that madame véronique trillet-lenoir is an expert in the area, and this is why we dedicated a specific area of europe’s beating cancer plan to paediatric cancers. and this is why we are, in conjunction with the plan, looking at the revision of the orphan and paediatric regulations, which aim to address the problems that we now face in terms of treatments and innovation. i want to assure you that all medicinal products, which could be efficacious in treating paediatric cancers, are effectively studied in children. and we would look at the experience acquired in the us with their recent change of legislation for medicines for children to address this issue. and mr fourlas, we will be giving incentives to industry to boost innovation in areas where we have medical needs. but we will also impose obligations to ensure better access to medicines, to ensure that inequalities disappear within the eu. several of you also mentioned the issue to do with stigma and awareness and the need to really change it, and i can’t agree more with this. and mrs moretti also mentioned the issue to do with the (red) 2030 project and the need to have the evaluation of this, but we need to widely consult and i just wanted to say that before deciding the way forward. so i just wanted to say a few words in terms of where we are with the european reference networks. we will also grow the erns and these are already providing answers and diagnosis and treatment plans for more than 1.7 million patients who before only had, as many of you said, uncertainty and doubt. and in january 2022, the new erns will be invited to join the existing 24 networks, almost doubling their size to comprise around 1500 specialised healthcare units across the eu. and so we are consistently moving forward with this. we’re supporting member states in the development of their national rare disease plans. we’re working within the pharmaceutical strategy for innovation and increase support for our medical needs. and as many of you mentioned, we’re preparing the proposal for the european health data space and through the european platform on rare diseases registration. we’re working towards a framework to counter data fragmentation. so, all i can say in ending is that we as a commission and myself, as commissioner of health and food safety, we are committed. we’re committed to continuing to make concrete and tangible improvements and changes to the lives of rare disease patients, of their families, of those who work in the areas of rare disease, with commitment and dedication, as we have already been moving for the last 20 years and i look forward to working very closely with this parliament and having the opportunity to stand before you again in the not so distant future and share with you how we have moved on with this.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. there are currently 7 000 identified rare diseases, affecting 30 million people in europe alone and over 300 million people worldwide. in europe, there are still many people who are born, live and die with rare diseases without being diagnosed. 95 percent of patients don't have access to treatment, don't have enough access to health and social care to ensure a better quality of life. patients with rare diseases are also disproportionately affected by psychological, financial and social problems. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and programmes in the field of rare diseases and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and programmes in the field of rare diseases. the health of the tens of millions of people living in europe with a rare disease must be at the heart of our concerns and it is imperative that we do everything in our power to ensure access to treatment for european citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, the crisis in the world's ports, which could have been anticipated to some extent, has triggered a historic economic tsunami, and this devastating wave has hit the territory of the european union already shaken by the effects of the pandemic. the consequence we all see: shelves are filling up harder, factories are having massive delivery delays because of the microchips that are coming in very hard from china, prices have exploded everywhere, the winter holidays could bring chaos to stores. and things will not calm down soon, experts warn. but the worst part is that in the midst of the health crisis, some of the products that are either not available or are much more expensive are medicines that are vital in the treatment of covid. in my country, this is felt dramatically in this wave 4 that has hit us terribly. hospitals are running out of monoclonal antibodies, and other treatments are arriving late. in the face of this scenario, which we must not allow to become apocalyptic, the european union must act firmly and swiftly. the pharmaceutical strategy for europe, voted on yesterday in the european parliament plenary, is a first step to avoid a future drug crisis, but it is not enough. new measures must be taken urgently, because if this crisis in ports was not anticipated, at least now we know exactly what we can expect in the months or even years to come. we all understand what our vulnerabilities are. so it's time to act. europe urgently needs a rethink of production so that we can manufacture vital products at home: medicines, sanitary equipment, electronic components, enough food. we need to equip our ports with state-of-the-art infrastructure and services adapted to the times to make waiting times more efficient, and invest in the dwindling human resources across the european union. these measures will not only ensure our survival in times of crisis, but will also provide new jobs and additional income. but first of all, we need to quickly equip ourselves with a legislative framework that facilitates new investment, because industries would be ready to start engines, but in the era of the green deal, which requires them to follow strict rules, they need support and predictability. we need to invest immediately in research to provide a green alternative to everything we want to leave behind and to prepare a secure future for generations to come.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! now, as the world moves online, especially during a pandemic, it's accompanied by all kinds of violence: hate speech, trolling, stalking, blackmailing through pornography. cyberbullying may start online, but it often ends offline with devastating consequences for victims and their families. i believe that anything that's illegal offline should be illegal online. i would like to reiterate that i am firmly opposed to violence, but in accordance with the powers conferred on me by the treaties and in an ideologically neutral manner. first of all, the report does not mention violence against women and girls, but uses the extra-treaty concept of gender. and because of that, there will be a lot of inaccuracies in the application of criminal law, which requires far-reaching guarantees from all sides. the principle of legal certainty is a fundamental one. it cannot be achieved by introducing new, vague concepts. article 83 of the treaty already lists cybercrime in the european criminal code, so the reference to cyber-bullying on the basis of gender in the report should be considered as an example of an expansionary interpretation which is clearly abusive and must be seen only in terms of the instrumental treatment of the union's criminal law for strictly political purposes. it is a matter of personal regret that once again such an important issue as violence against women and girls has been corrupted by unnecessary ideological interference.
mr president one of the biggest challenges of the 21st century is the online space and its regulation. the experience of the past decades shows that the internet has many advantages and benefits, but unfortunately it can also provide a platform for new forms of violence. in just over a decade, social media has become a vector for youth violence, dramatically changing the online landscape by amplifying aggressive behavior. cyberbullying is intentional and persistent abuse. in our roma communities, we need to pay particular attention to online aggression against girls, as electronic aggression is a growing mental problem, damaging the individual, roma families and society as a whole. effective regulation and monitoring are needed. however, we regret to note that this report was prepared in accordance with the usual scenario. by unjustifiably attacking member states, infusing them with ideological phrases, making it impossible to reach an actual agreement, it accuses and starts a division between the member states of the union, which is very sad, because our countries, including hungary, are committed to the fight against gender-based violence online. protecting our children and families is a top priority online as well.
mr president, commissioner for equality, the fact that gender-based violence and violence against women is not a strictly local phenomenon and is not confined to the perimeter of the member states of the european union is something that this european parliament has accepted, and that is why we have supported the european union ratifying the istanbul convention and this european parliament has urged the commission to make this incorporation of the european union a priority. similarly, online violence, cyberviolence and cyberbullying have a european dimension which requires common definitions, common rules and common sanctions, which do not nullify the member states' criminal jurisdiction but place it within european parameters. that is the legal basis provided by article 83 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, because it is indeed a crime of european scope, as is the need for protection for its victims, both during the proceedings and in the social and welfare services necessary to deal with cyberviolence and cyberharassment from the european union and with an instrument of european law. i therefore join the calls on the commission to present a european initiative to include gender-based violence and cyberviolence in the list of 'crimes of the union'.
mr president, this is the second time this year that here in the parliament we directly address the issue of gender—based violence. this time we turn our attention on the digital forms that gender—based violence can take. during the past two decades, and especially during the last two years, we all have moved more and more of our lives online. the same can be said about violence against women and girls. technology is evolving fast and the speed of innovation in the online and digital world is incredible. while this speed of innovation brings us amazing new tools that make our life better, it is also providing new tools that facilitate abuse. for example, right now there are stalkerware applications legally available for purchase and use in digital stores. these applications are marketed as parental control software and are intended to monitor the activity on a phone or other device. the problem is that some of them don’t require the monitored person’s consent and they don’t have any kind of warning or signal that they’re operating. so, if an aggressor has access to a victim’s device for two minutes to install the application, they will have unlimited and undisturbed access to every move of the victim. i think we need to regulate the use of these types of applications and i worked to include it in the report. but this is only one example of harmful applications and there are many more applications out there. in the end, it will always be a difficult task to keep up with new technologies, but that should not stop us from taking steps in addressing the ways that technology can facilitate violence. this will require legislative action, like the prosecution and criminalisation of gender—based cyber violence, and non—legislative actions like protection and support of the victims; improving the process of reporting the crimes; raising awareness of the scale and consequences of the violence; focus on gender equality in education for the younger generation, removing gender stereotypes in the media, and improving research of the topic. once again, we call for an eu directive that will include all of these points and we are expecting a proposal to arrive in early 2022. i am looking forward for that proposal and i will work to make sure that the directive is in line with the high ambitions we set today.
the court of justice of the european union in luxembourg, on 6 october, two months ago, delivered an opinion on the istanbul convention, according to which the european union should respect the principle of subsidiarity and the right of the member states to decide this issue themselves. this report, contrary to the court's ruling, hastened the council to adopt that ruling, therefore fails to respect the court's ruling and undermines the rule of law. violence begins when women are viewed solely as objects of sexual desire, and a good part of the political spectrum promotes sexual desire while depreciating true, lasting, and faithful love, such as marriage. such a culture breeds sexual violence, and now in response to that violence, the same ideologies offer us the deepening of this ultra-liberal culture through the istanbul convention and gender ideology that directly attacks human dignity and identity. that's not a good way. let's turn to promoting the human dignity of every woman - that's the only way we can reduce violence.
madam president, gender-based violence is one of the most serious violations of human rights. there is no doubt that with the digital age of the internet and new technologies, spaces are being created that have changed the way individuals communicate and relate to each other. cyberviolence is not a separate violence: it is a continuation of offline violence against women. it impacts on fundamental rights and dignity at all levels. we need a european framework to have a definition that precisely defines cyberviolence against women. the european union must be able to establish minimum standards to ensure that such violence, including cyberbullying, threats, remote control, suicide induction, anorexia, mobile phone access, computer damage, etc., is prosecuted. preventive measures must be put in place: educating for responsible and above all safe use of the internet, and promoting cyber hygiene. above all, it is a very harsh violence because in the end the victim is reached without the need to have physical contact with him and the future of that person is destroyed. we must take measures to protect and support victims, facilitate access, be flexible in the information we provide, have a european telephone. but, besides, we have to prosecute and criminalize it because there are no complaints. there's a lack of awareness of this type of crime. there's insufficient support for victims. there is little research and therefore it is time to act. we also ask the commission to make gender-based violence and violence against women a european crime.
before continuing with the debate, let me open today’s voting session. we will vote on the files as indicated on the agenda. the voting session will be open from 18.30 until 19.45. the same voting methods will be used as during the last part—sessions. all votes will be held by roll call. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. explanations of vote containing a maximum of 400 words will be accepted. i declare the voting session open. you have until 19.45 to vote. the results of the vote will be announced on tuesday, 14 december at 9.00.
we now continue with the debate on the report by elissavet vozemberg—vrionidi and sylwia spurek on combating gender-based violence: cyberviolence (a9-0338/2021).
madam president! how weak you have to be to hide behind the anonymity of the internet to humiliate, intimidate, insult and discredit women. i think many of us politicians have experienced this, and i experience it very often, as do millions of women in europe and around the world, and the covid-19 pandemic has only exacerbated it. we need to be aware that whatever form cyberbullying takes, it always creates a sense of helplessness and isolation and low self-esteem, just as it does in the real world. that's why we can't agree to this. i am convinced that we need coordinated action to do this, to eliminate online violence and to make millions of women in europe feel safe online. educational activities, including those raising public awareness, are needed, as are legal solutions that will be a tool to effectively combat those who commit such violence. and i am glad that this debate is taking place here in the european parliament, because i have the impression - and i hear this often from women - that in many countries of the european union, women are increasingly deprived of proper support and proper protection.
madam president, a study by this house shows that the overall costs of cyber—harassment and cyberstalking are estimated at between eur 49 and 89.3 billion, with the largest cost category being the loss in terms of quality of life. this is what we’re talking about: quality of life. there’s probably not a single woman in this room who doesn’t have in her email or on whatsapp or messenger a very ‘kind’ letter starting with ‘dear bitch, i hope you die’, or something similar. i come from a country where a woman is beaten every 30 seconds, but you come from different countries and it happens to all of us. some of us are strong, but some of the younger ones i talk to consider suicide because of online violence. this is what online violence means, mr fest – because you were wondering, so i give an example. this is what it means. commissioner, we need to address this with european legislation. the time which passes will increase numbers, and silence will increase the numbers. i would like to end my message with a beautiful, beautiful message from my country and from my colleagues, to all of the men and partners out there: be an ally, not an aggressor.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. the development of new medicines and medical technologies is accelerating. this is evident in the speed with which we have developed effective and safe vaccines using new technology. the new technology is sometimes very expensive. with more opportunities comes inevitably more priorities. when we prioritize, we can either do it arbitrarily or we can use proven, research-based tools. today we are taking a clear stand to use those very tools to get as many good medicines out and about as possible throughout the eu. we will stop the duplication of work that exists in different eu countries in evaluating medical technologies. we take the opportunity to learn from each other and to support the smaller countries which also have fewer resources. these could be tools to diagnose a rare disease earlier, or new tools to map the spread of infection, or to develop that new effective treatment for cancer. after three years of negotiations by the member states, we finally have an agreement. in times of health crisis, the eu's joint response has now achieved another success. i would like to thank our colleague, mr tiemo wölken, who has been the chief negotiator and has secured the priorities of the socialist group - to have a transparent system in place which is also characterised by the public interest over the profit interest.
for the greens/efa group madam president, we have finally reached the end of a nearly five-year battle to find satisfactory compromises for health technology assessment. until now, it is true that this assessment has been carried out at national level, which has disadvantaged small countries, which do not always have the resources to assess the comparative effectiveness of treatments and thus to set the reimbursement of health technologies. this evaluation must indeed be done at european level, but i am also in favour of involving the national authorities. why would you do that? i will take the example of remdesivir, the antiviral drug from gilead, which was the first treatment for covid-19 to receive conditional marketing authorisation in the european union on 3 july 2020. what about its added value? for the french national authorities, on 17 september 2020, the high health authority said: no added value, no demonstration of the impact on viral load of this antiviral. what does the commission's health dg decide? she's signed a contract with gilead labs to order 500,000 doses, which is over a billion dollars. there is no question of this added value. who said it was a toxic drug that could cause harmful effects. so i hope that this new regulation will make it possible not to take the example of this remdesivir and that we will have a real objective assessment in relation to what the pharmaceutical laboratories tell us.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to stress in particular the importance of this legislation for cancer patients in europe. they will be the first to benefit from our increased efficiency in evaluating benefits. when the epp in 2018 for the first time systematically asked how we could better help patients suffering from cancer, one of our demands was: hta must be adopted. i'm glad we finally got this done. the institutions responsible for the evaluation of the benefits will in future have to cooperate with the european medicines agency. and that can lead to, especially in cancer patients, we get real innovation and not a lot of sham innovation. in women's politics, metoo is necessary and urgent. in pharmaceutical policy, metoo is a waste of resources. this means that a company is putting a drug on the market just to get a piece of the pie, without it being a real innovation for the patients. and if you get the timely signals in the cooperation of ema and hta institutions: this is not a real innovation, you might get a license, but never a refund then hopefully you can focus on real breakthroughs like mrna technology against cancer. i thank all those who have helped to bring this about: tiemo wölken, nathalie colin-oesterlé for the epp, stella as commissioner. i think this proposal will save resources and avoid duplication of work. the financing is still decided at national level. whoever orders the music must pay for it, so they say in german. but that a drug in france will extend life by two years and in germany by only six months or vice versa, that cannot be. this is why the scientific basis for the benefit assessment must be shared across europe. the high-paid people who do it 27 times, they should really be focused on innovation, not double-time.
madam president, commissioner, long illness is certain death, the romanians say. but sometimes the illness of some europeans is far too long. that's because we have different rules for new medical technologies and new drugs. how is it that in romania patients' access to the latest medicines can be extended by 240 days (i.e. 8 months)? thousands of people die in eight months and it's not allowed for them to die with the cure on the table, hidden in some bureaucrat's drawers. many go abroad, having to pay out of their own pockets, or even taking out extremely expensive loans. coordinated european health technology assessment will allow us to significantly reduce waiting times for our patients and thus save european lives. "for every evil there are two cures, time and silence", said alexandre dumas. let's reduce the time of suffering, break the silence!
madam president, after years of difficult negotiations, i am glad to finally see a deal on this file, as it will guarantee more equal access to quality medicines and medical devices throughout the union. so congratulations to the rapporteur and to all the shadow rapporteurs. too often, expensive medicines, which do not really make a difference to what already exists on the market, still get approved. with hta we will avoid duplication of clinical assessment – and hence of human and financial resources. i am happy to see that we have managed to integrate enhanced transparency and public access to hta documents into the text, safeguards in case member states still carry out national clinical assessments, as well as the establishment of a stakeholder network to guarantee civil society involvement. all in all, i am delighted to see that governments are now given every means to reimburse only medicines that truly work so that patients only access and pay for effective treatments.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner and mr wölken for the work they have done together with the other rapporteurs on such a sensitive and important subject. i believe that the final result is a good compromise in the interests of all european citizens. health technology assessment is an extremely delicate step, because it sometimes takes place with patients waiting for new treatment opportunities. at the same time, a rigorous process is needed, because no medical device or therapy can be approved without real added value for the public. the commission has already set out the path towards greater integration and coordination between the different national authorities, knowing that this is one of the typical situations in which europe can play a key role in the interests of citizens and patients. i believe that this measure should be seen as a starting point, ready for further integration at european level if the situation on this dedicated ground so requires.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, as many of us have said, today is an important day for patients across the eu and i want to thank you once again for the very important part you have all played in getting us to this point. i very much appreciate the support for the regulation’s objectives and ambitions. mep guteland, mep trillet-lenoir, yes, we can only agree that the regulation on health technology assessment (hta) will ensure the effective use of resources, as you have said, and strengthen the quality of hta across the eu; and of course, as you have said, it is a fundamental right to have access for all patients. mep colin-oesterlé, the joint work will start by assessing cancer medicines and advanced therapies like gene therapy and of course, as many of us said, unmet medical needs are our focus and a priority. mep liese, i just wanted to stand on one or two points because the significance for cancer patients has already been stressed, but also avoiding the duplication of work, and i just wanted to share with you the role of working together and what we have today, where we are today, and now with the therapeutic strategy we will be reaching this week the target of five authorised therapeutics for covid-19 at the eu level, and we will work with all for joint procurement to ensure timely access. mep ştefănuță spoke of the unequal access to medicines in the eu, as did mep metz and others, and i just wanted to say that really it is not acceptable. we will be addressing this through the pharmaceutical legislation. we need to save resources, we need to have transparency. i’ll end with what mep moretti just said: that hta is challenging. but the fact that it is challenging i think makes it even more important that we have managed to reach this point together. as of next month, we will begin operational steps with setting up key governance bodies such as the coordination group and the stakeholder network. we will also start preparing the necessary implementing and delegated acts. we will assist the coordination group with the drafting of a guidance document and really, we need to bring all these rules now to life. i very much look forward to continuing to work with you. i will keep you informed on all the progress, and thank you once again for your continued support.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you again today. and thank god -- i was just feeling a little uncomfortable -- there were so many doctors in the room. all right, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. i want to thank you again for your cooperation. i think we've accomplished something great here. and i want to thank our teams again, our secretariats, for this collaboration. i said it: over four years of negotiations it's not easy. i'll make this quick. i hope, madam commissioner, that we will now implement the rules we have found quickly and, above all, that we will implement them in a concentrated way. and for that, in my view, we need a hta secretariat, which we have decided on, which is centrally organised, which will be located either in a new agency or in an existing agency. and, commissioner, i would ask you to provide the secretariat with sufficient resources and to ensure that there is no ambiguity about the processes. the future secretariat will be the backbone of this regulation and will ensure that this health assessment can actually work across the european union. that is why it is really important that the secretariat can work well, and i hope that this will be made possible. the point is that we want to avoid duplication of effort, that we want to make new health technologies available to europeans quickly and cheaply. and that is why we need you in the european commission. i would like to thank the portuguese presidency of the council, which has really helped us to achieve success here. in the end, parliament, the council and the commission all came together. and that's why i believe that at the end of the day, we now have a law that really helps citizens. and so thank you very much, and thank you again for the extra time.
this conversation is over. no proposals to reject the council's position have been tabled for the second reading of this recommendation, nor any amendments under rules 67 and 68. the council's position is therefore deemed to be adopted and the proposed act is therefore adopted. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. as always, what should have been a good idea, once it has been passed to the "wheel" of the trilogues, becomes a bad, unbalanced compromise, full of conflicting interests that forgets a central but nevertheless important element: the interest of the citizen! while we understand the usefulness of intra-european collaboration on the evaluation of certain health technologies, we do not accept that member states should have their health systems dictated by the eu. whether or not assessments are compulsory, joint or otherwise, they are nevertheless intrinsically linked to product take-over decisions and price negotiations in each member state. with this process, only those health technologies that find favour in the eyes of the eu will still be able to be used and prescribed in the eu, whereas others will inevitably disappear, due to lack of reimbursement. this will ultimately lead to the outright disappearance of many medicinal products, which are very useful. we reject these administrative constraints and the judicialisation of processes which only serve to block freedom of care.
the following is a brief introduction to the report by mr tomáš zdechovský on the impact of organised crime on the eu's own resources and the misuse of eu funds [2020/2221 (ini) ] (a9-0330/2021).
on behalf of the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. on behalf of tomáš zdechovský, i have the honour today of introducing, so to speak, an important own-initiative report on the use of eu funds by organised crime and their use, particularly in the area of shared management. because wherever there is money, there are, of course, the interests of organised crime. you don't want to think about the areas where organized crime is active. the committee on budgetary control has been able to identify a wide range of activities in this area and to discuss them with the competent authorities. it starts with the agricultural funds, goes beyond the cohesion funds and covers a wide range of types of support. it concerns in particular tenders in which only one or no bidder is found and yet the corresponding contracts are awarded. it is partly about links into political spheres. then, madam commissioner, as you know very well, there have been many attempts, in the billions, both in the sale of fake vaccines and in the sale of fake protective equipment, to exploit the medical and human emergency in the various member states. in this respect, organized crime has unfortunately become a permanent part of the work of the committee on budgetary control, because wherever money is potentially given, there is of course a corresponding interest. the committee on budgetary control is therefore extremely concerned about several measures. the european parliament and the council have agreed to the need to strengthen the role of the european public prosecutor's office in the fight against organised crime and to strengthen the role of the european public prosecutor's office in the fight against organised crime. the pif directive needs to be effectively implemented by member states in order to prevent fraud and exploitation by organised crime at an early stage. we need a digital system to trace european funds back to the beneficial owner so that we know where the money is going, who is receiving the money and who are the people behind the organizations and companies. these are mostly normal companies, but there are also shell companies. we have recently identified another front company which has been working for terrorist purposes, including organized crime, and has accordingly obtained european funds or has used european funds. we also now have a risk scoring tool, the arachne system, an it platform that all member states could use. and it should be made compulsory that all data can be entered or retrieved automatically from this platform in the member states, so that auditors and controllers know immediately and directly where european union funds have gone and audits can be carried out much faster and more efficiently than is currently the case. the olaf is an excellent body. she's doing an excellent job. it must be supported by the member states more effectively and more quickly, and evidence must be available in court. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. with this report, tomáš zdechovský, together with the committee on budgetary control, is trying to present a report which will take us forward in this work, in the fight against organized crime which commits fraud against european funds.
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank parliament for bringing attention to criminals’ misuse of eu traditional own resources and funds. this report comes at a crucial moment when european and national authorities need to redouble their efforts to protect the new eu budget, including the recovery and resilience facility and next generation eu. in its 2021 serious and organised crime threat assessment (socta) report, europol warned that serious and organised crime has never posed as high a threat to the eu and its citizens as it does today. as president von der leyen said in the state of the union speech in september, eu funds should not seep away into dark channels. a revamped eu anti—fraud architecture has been put into place over the last years, relying on the investigative powers of the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) and the european anti—fraud office (olaf), the coordinating role of eurojust, the analytical capacity of europol and close cooperation with and between national authorities. the upcoming targeted revision of the financial regulation will be an opportunity to further enhance transparency and public scrutiny with regard to the use of the eu budget and to enhance its protection against irregularities, fraud, corruption and conflicts of interest by developing the digitalisation of controls and audits and improving the quality and interoperability of the data on recipients of eu funding. however, criminals will keep trying to exploit eu funds so we need to investigate any possible irregularity. as pointed out in the report, the covid—19 outbreak has offered new opportunities for fraudsters. olaf has warned governments against fake offers for 1.2 million vaccine doses, with a price of over eur 16.4 billion, and its inquiries have allowed the confiscation of 100 million items of personal protection equipment. eppo and the new european financial and economic crime centre (efecc) of europol will enhance support for member states in vat fraud as well. in 2019, the loss of revenues in vat, according to the vat gap study, which estimates the difference between expected revenues in eu member states and the revenues actually collected, was estimated at eur 134 billion. as regards traditional own resources and undervaluation fraud, in may this year, the commission sent to member states a preliminary calculation of losses and invited them to make the amounts available to the eu budget under reservation in order to avoid further accumulation of interest. thirteen member states have already made available the relevant amounts and more are expected to follow. to tackle fraud against covid—19 eu recovery funds, europol has set up operation sentinel, coordinating the work of law enforcement authorities, olaf and eppo. those who alert about breaches in union law enjoy effective reporting channels and robust protection, thanks to the whistle—blower protection directive. it contributes to the effective application of eu rules on public procurement, anti—money laundering and counter—terrorism financing, to the prevention and deterrence of fraud and to other illegal activities affecting the eu’s financial interests. next year, under the european democracy action plan, the commission will propose an initiative to protect journalists and rights defenders against strategic lawsuits against public participation. our aim is to strengthen media pluralism and freedom. but eu funds are only the tip of the iceberg. more than 80% of criminal networks active in the eu use legal business structures for these criminal activities. one of the axes of the eu organised crime strategy of april 2021 is how to dismantle the criminal structures and disrupt their infiltration in the economy. the first step is to map out the criminal networks, identify their infiltration methods and the sectors targeted by criminals from real estate and construction to transportation or hospitality. then we must ensure that national and local authorities have the tools to prevent criminal infiltration. finally, we need to tackle corruption and cut the financial means that allow criminal groups to pollute our economy. criminal revenues amount to eur 139 billion annually, and only one percent is confiscated. we need to protect the eu budget and society as a whole from organised crime infiltration. the commission stands ready to do its share and will continue monitoring the effectiveness of all the measures taken.
this conversation is over. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday 14 december 2021 and the final vote will take place on wednesday 15 december 2021. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. currently, the most lucrative crime in the eu is intra-eu vat fraud, which costs taxpayers around €60 billion a year. the union vat gap in 2018 was 137,5 billion. it should be noted that economic crime is constantly evolving. during the pandemic, criminal groups have found new sources of income, mainly through the counterfeiting of medicines, protective equipment, the sale of non-existent medical products and vat evasion. one of the main objectives of the current european criminal policy should be to combat fraud affecting the financial interests of the eu and the member states. we believe that the union should change its approach to combating economic crime. poland is an example of a successful fight against vat fraud. in 2015, we had one of the highest vat gaps among member states at around 25% today we are one of the leaders in vat capping, with a gap of below 10%. the consolidation of the system is based on three pillars: modern legislation, efficient administration and intensive cooperation with business. in addition, some of the economic areas where poland has been most fraudulent have been covered by special legislative packages, e.g. the polish fuel package. i think the commission should follow our tried and tested approach.
the following is a brief introduction to the report by mrs michèle rivas on the fight against corruption, irregular expenditure and the misuse of eu and member state funds in the context of emergency funds and crisis-related expenditure [2020/2222 (ini) ] (a9-0320/2021). i give the rapporteur four minutes. members are reminded that there are no requested speeches or blue card questions in the debate at the moment. when a member is not speaking from the liaison office of the parliament of a member state, he or she shall speak from the floor.
i'm the reporter. madam president, madam commissioner, i have the pleasure of presenting this own-initiative report to you. i will use the example of the ongoing covid-19 crisis. in this report, i examine the main risks of corruption and misuse of public funds in the context of lax rules and limited transparency, both at national and european level, and i suggest various recommendations on control and transparency mechanisms, which should remain operational whatever crises the union may face in the future. let me start with a few facts. first, the crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic, together with the economic emergency and subsequent social unrest, prompted the european union and member state governments to provide additional funds and to significantly and rapidly increase spending. to help member states deal with the consequences of the pandemic, the commission has created the recovery and resilience facility with a budget of over eur 670 billion and react-eu with a budget of over eur 50 million. both instruments are powerful tools to help eu countries recover. due to the urgency of the crisis, procurement procedures and means of control have been relaxed in many member states, while existing response plans did not sufficiently address the problems of illegal activities such as corruption and fraud. as a result, as shown by the first reports of the national accounts courts or independent investigations, a series of corruption and fraud scandals broke out in european countries, starting in spring 2020. remember: in italy, police discovered several cases of corruption involving a government contract for the purchase of 800 million masks. in germany, meps resigned from the national parliament following a scandal involving their personal involvement in the purchase of masks. in slovenia, the minister for economic affairs was implicated. it is also under the pretext of the urgency of the crisis that the european commission has chosen to negotiate and sign, in a confidential manner, the pre-purchase contracts for the development of vaccines against covid-19 with the pharmaceutical industries and to prevent the european parliament from exercising its right of budgetary control. these contracts, worth €2.5 billion of public money, were signed and implemented without any control by the european parliament and remain confidential to this day. the €2.1 billion emergency support instrument in the eu budget has been activated and parliament, as the budgetary authority, still does not have access to the documents to know the traceability of this financial instrument. in addition, the commission has often concealed, in the drafting of the contracts, all the information concerning the amount collected by the various laboratories. what is unacceptable in this report is that basic checks carried out by the public or independent institutions can be dismissed in the name of the crisis and the emergency, whatever the nature of the crisis, and that european legislative acts can be adopted to the detriment of democratic rules. no crisis should be used as an excuse to exclude the european parliament or, within certain limits, civil society from access to documents and from the in-depth scrutiny of the use of public data. finally, it calls for the supervisory institutions, olaf, the court of auditors, the european public prosecutor's office and the european parliament to be able to carry out their work without disruption during all kinds of crises that the eu may face in the future. finally, if we want to gain the trust of the citizens, we need transparency, institutional control and control by civil society: these are the cornerstones of the trust of the european citizens.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the commission is fully committed to the fight against corruption and fraud and upholding the principles of the rule of law in crisis as much as in normal times. in this regard, we aim at enhancing transparency and the protection of the eu budget. the commission intends to use the upcoming revision of the financial regulation as another opportunity to enhance the protection of the eu budget against irregularities, fraud, corruption and conflicts of interest, by developing the digitalisation of controls and audits and improving the quality and interoperability of the data on recipients of eu funding. it will also provide an opportunity to enhance transparency and public scrutiny with regard to the use of the eu budget. fighting corruption, including its prevention and repression, is a key element in the european semester, as reflected in country-specific recommendations. the commission encouraged member states to address corruption-related issues in their recovery and resilience plans. as part of the annual rule of law report, we also report on anti-corruption measures in all member states. the annual rule of law report will continue in 2022 and for the first time it will include concrete recommendations to member states. the commission stands ready to support member states to design and implement mechanisms to fight corruption and money laundering and to have proper safeguards for public prosecutions. the commission action plan accompanying the commission anti-fraud strategy includes a specific action related to fraud risks and vulnerabilities with regard to spending in emergency situations. the commission has made a great effort to promote the adoption of national anti-fraud strategies and supported member states with guidance and know-how. may i remind you that the commission provisions regulation article 72 for cohesion and that the recovery and resilience facility regulation article 22 make clear that the relevant member states are the first line of protection of the financial interests of the union, ensuring that funds are used in full compliance with applicable union and national law. our rules highlight in particular member states’ responsibility for prevention, detection and correction of fraud, corruption and conflicts of interests. member states are obliged to provide an effective and efficient internal control system to this effect. the role of the european anti-fraud office, as well as those of the commission, the european court of auditors and the european public prosecutor’s office, are explicitly established in the recovery resilience facility regulation, article 22. for these institutions and bodies to do their work, it is necessary that data are recorded and made available. we need to have clear and complete information always about the final beneficiaries of the funds. the risk of criminal infiltration in the recovery funds is, however, only one small niche. the infiltration of organised crime in the economy as a whole is unprecedented in scale, with 80% of criminal networks using legal business structures to advance their criminal activities. we have a comprehensive and integrated approach on corruption and security. the fight against corruption is a key priority under the eu’s union strategy, the most recent eu strategy to tackle organised crime, adopted in april 2021. the organised crime strategy has a dedicated section, as well as actions on corruption, to tackle organised crime and infiltration.
rapporteur. – madam president, while i am very pleased to speak this evening on this very important file, i must say that i am a bit disappointed that there isn’t a full debate, and especially that the shadow rapporteurs haven’t had an opportunity to contribute as the cooperation i got from them in this report was as good as i’ve witnessed since i came here in 2009. and especially, of course, as the renovation of the eu’s building stock is a key green deal priority, not just as a way to reduce co2 emissions, but also as a driver for sustainable growth and job creation. for example, the construction sector is the largest generator of jobs per million euros invested. with goals to renovate 35 million buildings by 2030, supported with funding of eur 672 billion from the recovery and resilience facility, this should provide massive economic opportunities. addressing the energy performance of buildings should be a precondition for every member state’s decarbonisation plans. unfortunately though, the simple fact is that, taken together, current submitted long—term renovation strategies by the member states will not allow us to achieve 2050 climate neutrality. reaching our climate targets without decarbonising our living and working spaces is just impossible. the energy performance of buildings directive (epbd) is the main eu—level legal instrument for decarbonising member states’ building stock. this implementation report focuses on the latest changes to the epbd that were introduced in 2018 and transposed in 2020. we can see a marked difference in ambition level between member states’ long—term renovation strategies. this results in a problem of compatibility among the plans. the later submissions include links with national recovery plans adopted because of the covid—19 crisis with the latest eu policy initiatives, such as the renovation wave. to address this, the report proposes a standardised template that member states could use to ensure they address all requirements of article 2(a) on harmonised objectives and requirements. with energy performance certificates (epcs), there is a gap between real energy performances and calculated performances, which is a source of confusion for users. our report recognises that there is a need to integrate the building renovation passport, the digital building logbook and the smart readiness indicator with the epc. member states should provide a clear link between their national long—term renovation strategies and adequate initiatives to promote skills and education in the construction and energy efficiency sectors. fit for 55, more broadly, will need a new influx of skilled workers, but renovations will need particular attention. we also highlighted the success of one-stop shops for the critical role they can play in giving advice, coordinating works and connecting potential projects with market players, including smaller-scale projects. the one-stop shops should advise and support both single family homes and multi-unit buildings and also provide support for accredited installers. the revised epbd needs to encourage smart buildings technologies and foster a data—centric approach, including initial design, as well as staged and deep renovations. this includes the materials used in construction. in this regard, it will be pivotal to create a framework to leverage the use of data to improve actual energy consumption. finally, i would like to thank colleagues in the secretariat, research services and the commission, as well as the shadows, whom i have mentioned already, and advisers for their very good work on this report.
member of the commission. – madam president, i first of all would like to thank all the honourable members, and in particular the rapporteur mep seán kelly, for their own-initiative report and the involvement on the energy performance of buildings directive (epbd) implementation. the european parliament and the commission have worked hand in hand towards the common goal of decarbonising the building sector. this includes ensuring the proper implementation of the epbd and analysing the elements that can be improved in the context of the legislative review to be launched on 14 december. buildings are responsible for greenhouse gas emissions before, during and after their operational lifetime. the 2050 vision for a decarbonised building stock goes beyond the current focus on operational greenhouse gas emissions. the whole lifecycle emission of buildings should therefore progressively be taken into account, starting with new buildings. while the focus of the proposal is the reduction of operational greenhouse gas emissions, the first steps are taken to address carbon emissions over the whole lifecycle of a building. the recommendation of parliament’s own-initiative report expressed to a large extent the view of the european commission on the achievements and challenges in making sure that energy and efficiency renovations of buildings contribute to our updated climate targets. the commission will present its analysis of the member states’ 2020 long-term renovation strategies in its staff working document accompanying the 14 december package. at this point, i can say that we have detected the positive developments since the previous edition of the strategies in 2017. as regards the completeness aspect, and from a formal point of view, the strategies have in general respected the requirements of the directive, providing information in the different categories requested by article 21 of the epbd. on content, the submitted strategy showed broad engagement to provide easier access to financing, technical support, promotion of advisory tools such as one-stop shops, tackling energy poverty and better information, among other best practices. on the ambition level, the situation varies. some member states have high targets, while others need to intensify their efforts and invest more. the commission also shares parliament’s view on the need to help member states improve their strategies further. the commission also finds that a better comparability of data among different strategies is needed, in particular by harmonising the template for strategies development. the analysis of the epbd review provided by the european parliament contributed to the development of the proposal for the review of the epbd that the commission will adopt on 14 december. this proposal is essential for delivering on a major component of the fit for 55 package and will contain a number of key measures in line with the european parliament recommendations. we will propose revised measures on the long-term renovation strategies, which build on the existing and well-established framework. we aim to improve towards more transparency, better implementation and monitoring procedures, with new elements that reflect a broader view of issues and higher ambition towards decarbonisation. this new framework will require member states to develop and submit a stronger plan with clear and specific chapters, including data more comparable and easy to aggregate at the eu level. on the issue of electromobility specifically addressed by the european parliament, the review of the epbd is also envisaging a number of key provisions. to name a few, the proposal will strengthen the existing provisions on parking spaces in new and renovated buildings for the recharging of electric vehicles, in line with increased climate ambition, by lowering the threshold for the number of parking places. the proposal will introduce a right to plug specifically addressing barriers to recharging in multi-family buildings. we will propose to strengthen the requirements for the roll-out of recharging points in existing large non-residential buildings, since recharging at the workplace is an important complement to recharging at home. with smart charging, the car can be charged when energy prices are low or when renewable energy is abundant, and it will also be possible to feed electricity back to the grid and use the car battery as a storage facility, vehicle to grid. smart charging facilities, the integration of renewable energy such as wind and solar to the grid, and help decarbonise the energy system. the proposal will support other forms of sustainable mobility, in particular e-bikes and bikes which require safe parking in residential and non-residential buildings. this is why the proposal will also be addressing recharging points to support smart charging, which is also in line with the renewable energy directive and alternative fuels infrastructure proposals. the epbd proposal is therefore in line with the european parliament’s report to a very large extent, and this complementing the alternative fuels infrastructure regulation proposal which covers publicly available recharging points. in concluding, the commission would like to thank the european parliament and the rapporteur for this excellent and very timely own-initiative report. on the issue of the long-term innovation strategies of e-mobility and other aspects contained in parliament’s comprehensive report, the commission will make full use of the european parliament recommendations. the commission will work very closely with the european parliament during the forthcoming negotiations to ensure consistency across all building-related provisions in the green deal initiatives. it requires a coherent and robust framework for buildings to meet the eu’s 2030 and 2050 targets, and i of course count on your continued support to achieve it.
in writing. the european parliament has stated that member states' plans to increase the energy efficiency of buildings should favour those living in energy poverty. but orbán's government's housing renovation program for the rich is helping those who don't need it. the hungarian reality shows that on average hungarian households spend almost 60% of their household maintenance costs on energy. the lower the income of a household, the more it spends on energy. the inaction of the orbán government is appalling, as today every sixth household in hungary suffers from energy poverty. while orbán talks about reducing taxes to help the rich, the european parliament, with the support of the democratic coalition, wants to reduce energy consumption through state-supported housing renovations. so we're not just actively taking action on the climate crisis, but we're actually helping people who really need help. this is the real cutback!
in writing. the cheapest, cleanest, least harmful energy and the one that contributes most to reducing global warming is the energy saved through efficiency practices, particularly in buildings. with this own-initiative report, the european parliament is at the forefront of proposing actions to make the most of the energy efficiency of buildings, in conjunction with plans to renovate the built heritage. a renewal strategy, aligned with the green deal, the fit for 55 strategy and the financial programmes linked to these priorities, is a strong generator of skilled jobs, contributing to a green transition that creates more wealth and opportunities. it is also a pillar in the fight against energy poverty and contributes to reducing property speculation and the lack of sustainable and affordable housing, in particular for young people. it also contributes to the integration of new technologies for electric vehicle charging, smart grid deployment and renewable energy capture and storage, which will help the union to industrially reconfigure itself and lead the green transition in buildings, a sector deeply linked to people's well-being.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr mikser, and all the meps who have contributed to the european parliament resolution on the challenges and prospects for multilateral weapons of mass destruction, arms control and disarmament regimes. we are all concerned at the deteriorating security environment, as well as the continued pressure on these regimes. your active and continued engagement is both much needed and appreciated. the eu takes its responsibilities seriously and invests political and human capital, as well as actual funding, in the preservation and upgrading of the multilateral framework for arms control, non-proliferation and disarmament. in all relevant meetings of treaty bodies, meetings of the un disarmament fora and of other regional security organisations, the eu speaks out firmly, upholding its values and interests. these comprise a multilateralist approach to security, including arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation, a strong support for verification and upholding the compliance of treaties, and the commitment to international coordination and export controls. the eu collaborates closely with like—minded partners who share these principles. the existing arms control, non—proliferation and disarmament multilateral framework has been carefully built over the past decades. it is a delicate framework requiring constant maintenance and nourishment. it needs political support and societal trust. it needs perseverance, constant effort and innovation in order to keep up with new challenges. without sufficient attention, the risks are tremendous, and they are real. today’s multipolar world calls for holistic global solutions. we will continue to support effective multilateralism and rules—based international cooperation in order to ensure a more safe, sustainable and stable world in the wake of the covid—19 pandemic. we can only address global challenges collectively, by working in partnership with others, in order to deliver results on issues important to our citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with an important subject today: the violence against women in yemen as a result of the violence perpetrated by the houthi militias. there are many cases of activists and educators being arrested without cause, being kidnapped from their homes: 1 181 women have been imprisoned in the last year alone, very often on ridiculous charges, and their children are then transported to prisons. it's a situation of incredible violence, which is perpetually perpetrated against women in this country. violence perpetrated by the houthi militia and which parliament must absolutely monitor. we are calling for a resolution, we are calling for strong action by the european parliament to put an end to violence against women in yemen.
madam president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, cohesion policies are one of the cornerstones of the european union, and the phrase 'leave no one behind' must be translated from theoretical to practical. the multiannual financial plan must be launched as soon as possible by the member states so that european funds reach where they are needed most. it is important to ensure that excessive bureaucracy and eligibility conditions do not prevent the use of european funds in less developed communities. the eligibility of projects must be determined solely by their usefulness, their contribution to the economic and social development of the region and, of course, the fulfilment of environmental conditions. we need to ensure that european money has a direct impact on the development of our communities. this monitoring must be done at european level and we must intervene with technical solutions where needed.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, nobody will ever ban christmas in the european union. it is unacceptable that in future an internal commission document contains such sensitive elements that it can create the perfect opportunity to mislead european citizens. i say assumed, although it was explained that it is an unfortunate internal document, unfortunately, the false news such as that in the european union christmas was banned still haunts. and that's why i think it's essential that we be vigilant and do everything that we can and do everything that we need to do to stop the spread of this false information in the future. they do serious damage to democracy. christmas is a celebration of joy and it excludes no one who does not celebrate it with us.
madam president, the dma is a real step forward in terms of better protection for users, but also - and this is our wish - to see small and mediumsized businesses develop in the face of the giants of the web. i think there are still a number of areas where improvements can be made. firstly, the scope of the dma: it is about regulating google, apple, facebook, amazon and microsoft, but we must not forget, for example, alibaba and tik tok, and that is why i support the commission's proposal to reduce turnover to eur 6.5 billion, because it allows a wider spectrum. secondly, i think that the utility of the dma would be more complete if all the activities of the gatekeepers were subject to regulation, and i am thinking of course of the shops they host. furthermore, as regards the use of personal data for commercial purposes, i believe that, in line with everything we have done on the gdpr, any cross-referencing of data between different entities, but especially targeted advertising and not only for minors, should be prohibited. i think it should be extended to all users of these platforms. finally, the last point, on which i agree with many of my colleagues, is interoperability. this is very important to have a little more freedom for digital users. once again, i hope we will all vote together for this considerable breakthrough.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, do you remember where you were when you first went online? the modem that crashed and stalled. but the world has changed. thank god for that. globally, there are 5.6 billion searches a day on google. there are 1.6 million amazon packages shipped every day. it shows that our digital economy is in full swing and that people have indeed found their way to the internet. but it also shows how huge these companies are and how much impact they have on our society. because with such a large scale and such influence comes, of course, a great responsibility. and unfortunately, it's still missing too often today. moreover, the "facebook papers" that whistleblower francis hogan has shown have only fuelled mistrust and the many lawsuits by the commission against these tech giants are proof of this. it is therefore positive that europe is taking the lead and creating clear rules. instead of pursuing the facts, we now get into the cockpit and can take decisive action if necessary. the biggest tech giants are now the ones who are running the digital world, and that needs to change. i am therefore pleased that we are resolutely opting for strong rules that create a healthy and competitive digital climate, whereby, of course, smaller companies can also grow with me in belgium and elsewhere in europe and also have the opportunity to reap the benefits of the digital transition. i would also like to congratulate mr schwab on his achievements. after the gdpr, we are now setting the gold standard with europe again.
mr president, there is a lot at stake today, witness perhaps the biggest lobbying operation brussels has ever seen. google, facebook and others have spent millions, including in the form of newspaper ads, to bully us. and yet there is a proposal that would drastically limit the power, the market power of the tech conglomerates. it's a three-stroke. first, the proposal puts the knife in the tracking and targeting the unwise practice of collecting and using as much data as possible. it's a massive invasion of our privacy and it's accompanied by the debasement of the sale of uproar and even anger. think of fake news and conspiracy theories. and it is at the expense of the traditional media and, commissioner margrethe vestager, at the expense of small and mediumsized enterprises. because for every dollar spent on advertising, more than 50 cents go into the pockets of google and facebook. cut out the middleman! then there should be a ban on tracking ads. today's proposal is a strong start. secondly, this proposal cannot break up companies, but it can break them up. interoperability is the key to breaking the power of the tech conglomerates. we need competition, and because of that, everyone can communicate from signal to whatsapp. thirdly, we must put an end to aggressive takeovers by requiring more information on each takeover so that we can ensure competition. this week, we're making a change to take the internet out of the hands of the tech conglomerates and make it ours again.
madam president, our market is unique and it creates many opportunities for businesses and for 450 million consumers. however, it is not yet adapted to the digital age. paradoxically, europe accounts for 15 to 20% of gafa turnover and offers huge business opportunities that these players cannot and do not want to ignore. i would therefore like to thank margrethe vestager, thierry breton, rapporteur andreas schwab and all the other colleagues for their excellent work. with the dma, the digital market act, we're taking back control of the world's digital giants and we can finally demand responsible behavior. there is no place in our single market for abusive practices and unfair conditions imposed on businesses and consumers. the dma ensures more pluralism, competition, guarantees for smes and consumer choice, more effective governance and more innovation. yes, colleagues, the dma is a key element of our new digital sovereignty.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is good that the big players in the digital market have imposed rules on themselves and tried to improve their services. but the online marketplace needs to be officially regulated so that it respects both the safety and rights of consumers and the rights of other economic operators. the digital domain is in its infancy, and we need to ensure that while the legislation does not impede development and innovation, it does not take place through the use or misuse of personal data. we need to continuously monitor and evaluate digital market legislation to ensure that the basic laws of the internal market are respected: level playing field, consumer safety and protection, and identical rules for online and offline applications. i congratulate rapporteur andreas schwab and the shadow rapporteurs on this report and wish them every success in the dialogue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, next year will be a key moment for young people across europe. we have the opportunity to move from beautiful speeches to concrete solutions. no young person should be left behind, whether it is the young people here in strasbourg or those in my town, alba iulia. the european parliament and our political group in particular have asked for funds for the european year of youth. as a member of the budget negotiating team for next year, i got a special allocation of €8 million, but to increase the impact, the amount needs to be increased. financial resources must be accompanied by a clear agenda of measures and policies for young people, built together with young people and organisations with expertise. equalising studies and qualifications, implementing and extending the youth and children's guarantee, including youth funds in recovery plans, supporting inclusive and quality education in all member states, developing youth entrepreneurship, civic, environmental or digital education, and managing the impact of the pandemic on young people are just some of the issues that need to be addressed next year. young people should no longer be treated by politicians as a ballot box. we need young people to have the chance to shape their own futures and to influence the world now. the worst thing would be to meet next year without being able to present any concrete results. europe today should not be left to future generations. it must be built together with young people, so that europe can once again embody the hope of a better future.
mr president, i would like to start by congratulating sabine verheyen and all my colleagues for reaching a good agreement on 2022 as the european year of youth. this being said, we often hear that the youth are europe’s future. a shiny, albeit increasingly vague, future. this idea is simple and easy to love, as the future sounds like someone else’s problem – not ours, now in the present. but whereas europe’s youth may embody it’s near and distant future, they are present right here and right now, and their situation is full of challenges that they’re facing each and every day, especially in the context of the pandemic. so this is why we are right now standing at a crossroads. we can either leave youth to fend for themselves, and they will do well, or we can invest in the enormous human capital they represent and help us now and here to improve europe and our union. we can do that together with our youth.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to convey a beautiful thought from this podium, as a letter to the younger generation and to my daughter ana. dear ana, dear young people, in the year 2022, i wish you to be brave, as we were, the generation of '89, with the courage with which we defeated the iron curtain and to defend democracy with your beautiful minds and voices. ana, i know you want to be an architect, but first of all you and your generation need to be architects for your own life, to be active and engaged, to invest in your own personal development, to grow beautifully in the digital age, to love nature as yourself, to have ideals and dreams. my generation and i will guide our work by the words of king michael i of romania, i quote: "it is in our power to make the country stable, prosperous and admired in the world. i don't see today's romania as a legacy from our fathers, but as a country that we borrowed from our children", the quote ends.
madam president, commissioner, let us start at the beginning: russia, led by putin, first by challenging the territorial integrity of georgia, then of ukraine, namely by the illegal and unrecognized annexation of crimea and then by advancing into the war in ukraine in eastern ukraine. right now putin has been concentrating tens of thousands of troops, tens of thousands of personnel, on the border between russia and ukraine, creating a very real threat, a very real threat to the integrity of ukraine and to an escalation of the conflict that persists. that is why we, the western countries, the european union, together with the united states and the united kingdom, cannot under any circumstances tolerate russia creating another situation of war and violation of the international order in ukraine. of course it is essential to maintain the dialogue of the minsk agreements and to maintain the dialogue through germany and france in that quadrilateral structure with russia and ukraine, but as this is very important for the dialogue it is essential to maintain a firm position vis-à-vis russia. this means, of course, that the sanctions applied to the russian regime are clear and, in particular, the sanctions that may be applied in the event of any negative development in relations between russia and ukraine. here the european union, the united states and the united kingdom must be in full agreement, in a firm, firm and clear way, which also shows solidarity with the eastern partnership and the eastern european states which are part of the european union. without that guarantee, peace in europe and peace in the world is in danger.
madam president! the continuous political and military pressure that ukraine has been under in recent months is also a test for the european union and a test of the credibility of our supposedly firm policy towards moscow. but how can you defend yourself without a gun? unfortunately, the decision to block the purchase of weapons for the ukrainian army by germany and the netherlands is proof that the threat of gas blackmail alone is enough to paralyze any effective action. and what happens when nord stream 2 is ready, pumping millions of euros into the pockets of russian oligarchs? pro-russianism is not measured by words, but by actions! the underestimation of the threat posed by russia's aggressive policy to the security of europe, and in particular poland and the baltic states, is the same mistake that the west has made for years, and that president lech kaczynski spoke about in tbilisi in 2008.
madam president, please. i've been following the situation on the ukrainian-russian border with concern. i agree with borel that everything must be done to de-escalate the situation, to prevent the crisis from deepening. we must therefore support all initiatives that are moving towards a peaceful solution to the conflict and towards the implementation of the minsk agreements. i hope the normandy formation can be revived. hungary as before strongly supports the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine. the ukrainian people have been in a difficult situation for years, so peace and stability would be important to them, since thousands of people have already lost their lives, including transcarpathian hungarians, in defense of the homeland. hungary has proved on countless occasions that ukraine can count on its support. at the same time, it is unacceptable to restrict the rights of national minorities, including the hungarian community living in the country. minority rights are human rights. fundamental human rights should not be a casualty of the conflict in eastern ukraine. i hope that peace and security in the region will be restored as soon as possible, as this is in the interest of all of us.
madam president, vladimir putin is deliberately escalating his aggression against ukraine, amassing 175 000 troops near ukraine’s borders. yet, this is a war he is bound to lose. he will lose this war because today’s ukraine is not the ukraine of 2014, which was weakened and unprepared under the corrupt yanukovych regime. today, the ukrainian army is battle-tested, reformed, and equipped for modern warfare. it has benefitted from training by the western partners and it has high morale and readiness to defend the homeland. putin will also lose the war because more than 56% of ukrainians now support closer integration with nato and the eu. he has failed to win over the hearts and minds of ukrainians. finally, putin will lose the war because further aggression will be met with powerful western retaliation – severe restrictions of imports of russian gas, freezing of the bank accounts of putin’s cronies, the permanent halt of certification of nord stream 2, and disconnecting russia from the swift system. all of these measures should also be applicable in the case of unconventional aggression – the use by the kremlin of hybrid warfare instruments, including cyberattacks and artificial mass migration. the eu and nato member states must support reinforcing ukraine’s military capabilities through arms and technology transfers. it is completely unacceptable for any single member state to prop up moscow’s interests by blocking such support. in the end, we must finally discard any ideas of appeasing putin. ukraine is not chamberlain’s ‘far away land’ – it is our neighbour, close partner and friend. the eu and ukraine must stand united against putin’s blackmail.
madam president, it's the end of a complicated year. we are all used to the measures taken to combat the covid pandemic, the long process of approving recovery and resilience plans or the problems related to the non-respect of fundamental freedoms in some parts of europe. however, developments on the ukrainian-russian border should not be ignored, because that problem is not just a ukrainian problem, but one that concerns the whole of europe. the fact that the russian federation has substantially increased its military presence in recent months on the eastern and northern border with ukraine, in occupied crimea and in the black sea region, where russia has been very active lately, coupled with the bellicose statements of russian leaders, is a challenge also for the security of the european union and certainly of the states in the eastern and south-eastern neighbourhood of the european union, including romania. comparisons with 1939 have become commonplace in recent times, but we must not forget the main lesson of that period: that we must not abdicate solidarity. the only way we can convince putin's russia that it must back down is the solidarity of the european union in the face of this phenomenon.
madam president, in 1991, when the soviet union collapsed, ukraine ended up having, at that time, over 3000 atomic bombs, making ukraine the third nuclear power in the world. in 1994, ukraine trusted the guarantees received from russia, as well as the west, and agreed to denuclearise so it signed the so-called budapest memorandum. in exchange for denuclearisation, russia affirmed in that memorandum its obligation to refrain from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of ukraine. ukraine and the west has kept their end of the bargain, but russia has not. in 2014, russia illegally occupied crimea and then occupied parts of eastern ukraine. now, russia under vladimir putin is threatening to invade ukraine and start a war unseen in europe since the second world war, which is unacceptable. ukraine is a sovereign country and it has every right to pursue its desired direction. i call on you, therefore, to support the national sovereignty, independence and internationally recognised borders of ukraine and use all the necessary means to help ukraine defend itself.
madam president, moscow is asking for security guarantees from the us and nato, and that the north atlantic alliance will not expand eastward, as long as independent and sovereign states, ukraine and georgia, want it. the statement of the deputy foreign minister, sergei ryabkov, is edifying, i quote: "the lack of progress in the political-diplomatic solution of this problem will make our response military and military-technical", i concluded the quote. the russian army troops mobilized on the eastern border of ukraine signify a preparation for invasion, as a military response of russia. the objective is to occupy the east and south of ukraine, up to the mouth of the danube, thus achieving the territorial connection with the occupied crimea, but also direct access to the danube. the union is threatening russia with sanctions, and putin could shut down the gas pipeline. instead of looking for alternative sources of energy supply, we bought more and more gas from gazprom, money with which putin modernized the military that today sits on the borders of ukraine. we need to send ukraine defensive military equipment. we need to strengthen the eastern flank of the european union and nato militarily. we have to gradually find alternatives to gazprom. we must not put nord stream 2 into operation.
madam president, mr high representative, what is happening now on the eastern border of ukraine, with the deployment of over 100 000 troops by russia, is one of the greatest challenges facing the european union. let's not forget that after ukraine decided politically to move closer to the european union, putin's response was to annex crimea. the kremlin views with great hostility any state in our immediate neighborhood that wishes to share the same attachment with us to democracy, human rights and freedom of expression, values that are alien to putin. he today embodies the perfect man, with a profile of the dictator who defies anyone and is willing to send his army to create a conflict unprecedented in europe. russia no longer has a place on the un security council, a permanent member, because it has become a country that endangers peace and stability in europe. the eventual invasion of ukraine will open a new chapter, full of events with tragic outcome. that is why russia must know that it will be completely isolated and will pay a heavy price for this stalinist ambition. bit has to be stopped. nothing justifies the initiation of a military conflict, but the desire of a man who seems increasingly ridiculous in his geostrategic ambitions.
mr president, commissioner, the risk and disruption factors are plaguing more and more territories and populations in a context of unacceptable inequalities and vulnerabilities. the pandemic has further highlighted the gap between the ambition of the goals and the sustainability of development we pursue and what we actually achieve on the ground. an additional 200 million people are currently in dire need of humanitarian assistance. the humanistic sense and the commitment to solidarity and cooperation are hallmarks of the european project, but we must be able to go further, to mobilise more resources and partnerships and to put development solutions into practice using knowledge and technology to break through logistical blockages and help better and faster those who need it most. this report is a roadmap of hope and good practice. it is a result of teamwork, but it is also the reflection of an exceptional member of parliament, norbert neuser, from whom i have learned a great deal and from whom we all learn a great deal. an mp who will leave this parliament, but not the causes he has always fought for, in particular the kick for help foundation. we got the ball, norbert. i know you won't let us fail someone who needs it so badly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the world has certainly not improved in recent years and our humanitarian intervention needs to be reorganised and refocused in this global context, which has become more uncertain and worrying because of covid, unresolved conflicts, new territorial disputes, climate change and natural disasters. the important thing is that our policy is always people-centred and that we always try to start from the basic needs in our humanitarian intervention. the focus is still there: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of malnutrition, health problems, food and water shortages, which are a basic right, and which must be guaranteed, especially in the most critical humanitarian contexts, such as yemen, east africa, afghanistan and haiti. i think that in this humanitarian disaster we have to start from these basic needs, paying attention - as my colleague neuser said when introducing this topic - to the reality of women, children and especially girls, because we know that gender violence becomes even more terrible and increases in times of conflict. finally, the relationship with ngos. we're not going to be able to do this huge task if we don't value ngos.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for this discussion and for their views and comments. as mentioned, the european commission is committed to strengthening eu humanitarian action and we are committed to do this together with you. that’s why we will address the issues that you raised in the report and in the discussions, for instance on the importance of education. i agree that children cannot wait for conflict to be over or for the crisis to dissipate before they can go to school again. that’s why we will continue to keep at least 10% of eu humanitarian aid for education in emergencies. our humanitarian aid needs to remain principled, and it shall remain principled. it will remain people—centred, in accordance with the principle of humanity. it will remain impartial and neutral, based solely on needs. it will remain independent from any political, economic or other consideration, and it is not going to be delivered through any government. it will be delivered as it is now. it will continue to be delivered through our trusted humanitarian partners, united nations agencies, the international red cross and red crescent family and international ngos, including faith-based ones. we will also discuss all this and other issues at the upcoming european humanitarian forum, the first of its kind, which will take place in january. in particular, at the forum, we will look into issues like broadening the resource base, both within the european union and globally. we will invite those who could, and should, contribute more to do their part. we will look into strengthening compliance with international humanitarian law, into creating more predictable and flexible humanitarian funding, into enhancing disaster preparedness and anticipatory action, most notably in view of climate change. we will also look into addressing our aid through a gender—sensitive lens, also preventing and mitigating gender-based violence. i count on the strong participation of honourable members of this house in these discussions, in the run-up to the forum, during the european humanitarian forum, and beyond and in general.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 15 december 2021. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the duration of humanitarian crises has doubled in the last five years, to more than nine years. there are 132 million people in need of humanitarian assistance worldwide. the increasing frequency and duration of crises indicate that a change of approach is needed in eu humanitarian policy. clear, verifiable and quantifiable objectives are needed to make union action more effective. the union must assess its capabilities and act accordingly. it's a matter of credibility. more targeted crisis management adapted to local conditions is needed! cooperation with local communities must be an essential element in the planning and implementation of our action. we must recognise that our own resources are extremely limited, but they can be multiplied by cooperation with local organisations with a strong social commitment. the experience of local churches and credit unions is an invaluable, yet untapped, resource in this regard! security is a key factor in the development of humanitarian crises around the world. according to unhcr, 79.5 million people have been displaced by armed conflict. the eu's role is to act credibly to eliminate armed conflict, taking into account the background to its financing. we need more effective humanitarian action, tailored to real needs, with realistic goals, because it's not what we start that matters, but what we finish.
in writing. the need for humanitarian assistance is at an all-time high in 2021, the number of people in need of humanitarian assistance is 238 million. the need for aid is mainly due to conflict, but also to other factors such as climate change, natural disasters, population growth, food insecurity, limited water supplies, etc. the resolution welcomes the commission's proposals on eu humanitarian action and calls for the principle of 'leaving no one behind' to be at the heart of the new approach to humanitarian action. it is also welcome that special attention is paid to vulnerable groups such as people with disabilities, minorities and other highly marginalised people and their problems; there is also a focus on education and on preventing children from dropping out of school.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr lukas mandl, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on cooperation in combating organised crime in the western balkans (2021/2002 (ini)) (a9-0298/2021). i would remind members that there are no spontaneous speeches in any of the debates of this session and that no blue cards are accepted. as in the past, parliament will also be able to receive contacts from its liaison offices in the member states. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is not the report on cooperation in the fight against organised crime in the western balkans points to existing problems in this area, but also highlights successes in the fight against organised crime. the fight against organised crime there is also a high priority for us in the eu, as we are very closely linked to the region. the structures there affect us in the eu. but it is primarily a problem for the people of the region, because it undermines their right to security and social cohesion and their confidence in the democratic system. organised crime also creates obstacles to democratic reforms and hampers the accession process, as the threat of western balkan criminals has been used as an argument against eu accession in some eu member states. the report stresses that the situation with regard to organised crime is worsening if the western balkan countries are denied a european perspective and that the only way to improve the situation is to accelerate the eu integration process and to cooperate with the member states. the rule of law and the fight against corruption and organised crime are the key areas in which the western balkan countries need to deliver results in order to progress on their eu path. the report therefore calls on the governments of the western balkans to step up their efforts to promote the necessary reforms. the eu should continue to support them through financial assistance and practical cooperation. the report points out that organised crime is a structural problem. the links between organised crime, politics and business existed before the break-up of yugoslavia and continue to exist. in the report we therefore call for the archives of the former yugoslavia to be opened and in particular for access to the files of the former yugoslav intelligence service (udba) and the yugoslav people's army intelligence service (kos) and for the files to be returned to the respective governments upon request. cooperation and intelligence sharing with international partners such as the usa, the uk and international organisations such as the organisation for security and cooperation in europe and the united nations office on drugs and crime (unodc) are also crucial to uncovering and dismantling criminal networks. the report focuses on the problems and successes in the fight against organised crime, and highlights the excellent cooperation with eurojust, europol and frontex. the report also calls for such agreements to be concluded with countries which do not yet have cooperation agreements with eurojust, europol or frontex. political considerations should not stand in the way of successful cooperation in the fight against organised crime, which benefits all our citizens. the report concludes by highlighting the crucial role of civil society organisations and independent media in monitoring the work of governments and uncovering corruption, and calls on the competent authorities to strengthen the protection of whistleblowers in order to increase the capacity to crack down on organised criminal groups.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, yes, the fight against organised crime in the western balkans is a priority, also in the context of the eu enlargement policy. the commission regularly assesses the progress achieved by the western balkans partners in advancing on eu reforms, including in this area, in our annual enlargement package. we provide also recommendations on what needs to be done for the upcoming period. in the latest 2021 enlargement package, we report in detail how organised crime continues to be a threat in the region. it affects people, businesses, state institutions and the economy as a whole, but the commission also notes that this is an area where results have been achieved, in particular in the fight against drug production and trafficking, smuggling of migrants, trafficking in human beings, organised property crime, smuggling of excise goods, notably cigarettes and firearms. these results have been made possible because western balkans law enforcement agencies are increasingly working with our eu counterparts to tackle organised crime, concretely, by stepping up operational police cooperation, especially through the european multidisciplinary platform against criminal threats, known as empact, and with eu justice and home affairs agencies. the new eu strategy to tackle organised crime and the new eu strategy on combating trafficking in human beings, aim at supporting operational cooperation and helping to equip partners, including in the western balkans, with the tools they need to root out complex criminal structures. the eu drugs strategy and its action plan have also a strong international cooperation component. this confirms the eu’s commitment to help our western balkans partners. as you remember, in 2020 we had already integrated the regional road map against the proliferation of small arms and light weapons into the eu action plan on foreign firearms trafficking. the strategy will offer more opportunities to intensify operational law enforcement cooperation in a number of priority areas, such as all those mentioned in the report of honourable mandl, and these are equally relevant for the western balkan region as they are for our own european union. a lot more still needs to be done. that’s why the commission fully supports the need to step up cooperation with the region in the fight against organised crime, and this was most recently reaffirmed as one of our core priorities in the engagement with the western balkans in the eu western balkans justice and home affairs ministerial earlier this month. as noted in the report, there are clear links between the security of the region and that of the european union. our approach to supporting the region in the fight against organised crime addresses these links. it focuses on building a criminal justice system capacity in line with eu acquis and increased strategic and operational cooperation with the eu. we concur with your assessment that criminal justice systems remain to be strengthened and that their independence and professionalism must be enhanced. we are working closely with local judicial authorities to support a robust criminal justice chain and provide hands-on mentoring and advice, as well as judicial training for staff. we are also supporting the implementation of comprehensive performance measurement tools of the justice systems. we note that your report documents many instances of successful cooperation, which is supported by the instrument for pre-accession funding, such as the secondment to western balkans liaison prosecutors to eurojust and that has led to a significant increase of judicial cooperation, and we plan to boost this cooperation with eurojust even further. we will continue to accompany and support in the engagement in the fight against organised crime by mobilising the instrument for pre-accession assistance to priority areas. this includes the integration of the region into the work of eu justice and home affairs agencies such as europol, cepol, eurojust, frontex and the eu’s monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. finally, i wish to underline the importance of wider international cooperation and coordination in the fight against organised crime. we strongly believe that work with our key international partners such as the united states, the united kingdom and the international organisations such as osce, nato and unodc, is a prerequisite to successfully address common security challenges. i thank you and i look forward to the discussion.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, organised crime remains a major obstacle for the countries in the western balkans to create economic growth and to provide a safe environment for its citizens. criminal organisations abuse the region’s vulnerabilities, political instability and the lack of employment opportunities. even the pandemic has been exploited through misuse of public procurement for medical equipment. as these criminal activities affect the security of the european union, it’s in our own interests, and for the safety of our partners in the western balkans, that the eu should continue its financial and technical support to fight these crimes. i strongly support the call to open the former yugoslav archives – so—called udba archives – as this can shed light on deeply rooted criminal organisations that have been operating under the radar for decades. with the eu integration process, we try to overcome the structural problems that give criminals the space to cooperate. the countries in the region should further harmonise their legislation with the union’s acquis on anti—corruption and the rule of law. fighting criminal organisations requires political strength. it is only by concrete actions that one can obtain results. and these actions have to be taken now because, as has rightly been said, drug trafficking, arms smuggling and above all, the smuggling of people that we are seeing now with this migration is a very lucrative business. i think the western balkans is a breeding ground for crime.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, these are not ‘far away places about which we know nothing’, as chamberlain once said. they are family; they are part of our destiny; their security is our security. look at what is happening near ukraine’s border. a build—up of fighting vehicles and armoured units is taking place as we speak. so by bringing the western balkans – our nearest and most diverse neighbour – closer, we actually protect the eu against the very cold winds coming from the east. we have albania sliding towards conflict and now the repercussions could be more far—reaching even than the state collapse we witnessed 20 years ago. kosovo is struggling too to gain international recognition. we cannot leave these countries behind. we need to show them that the eu offers its neighbours a privileged relationship, and we need to prove to them that we are reliable, we are committed and a forward—looking partner. secondly, let’s admit that the lack of cooperation and data sharing does generate trans—border organised crime activities. we know it’s joint work and we are here to help, but the western balkan countries need to play their part too by keeping a solid track of corruption and money laundering, as well as weapons and human trafficking, and by working closely with the eu so that together we can monitor and counter any existing links between terrorism and illicit finance. thirdly, there is no vacuum in international relations. one wrong move and russia will exploit it. one misstep and china will give billions away and seek influence in the region, and demand it too. let’s unblock the western balkans’ path towards eu accession and not let others open a new front right here in our wing. let’s not give the green light to criminal groups to benefit from emergency situations such as covid and not let them counterfeit vaccines and vaccination cards. let’s establish stronger links with civil society. i started with chamberlain, but i will finish with churchill: ‘one always measures friends by how they show up in bad weather.’ so let’s show up for our friends!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that all citizens of the western balkan states have a solemn and committed desire to be part of the european project. what we have to do, however, is to push forward and demand, through the european commission, firm reforms to combat the greatest scourge that permeates and haunts these western balkan states. corruption, crime and human trafficking are real obstacles to the european integration process of these countries. but it is not only organised crime that is a threat to the democratic process and european integration of these states, but also the influence of states such as the russian federation, which have every interest in maintaining a state of unrest in this region. i am absolutely convinced that if there is the will, the efficiency and the seriousness to firmly demand that the western balkan states abandon this impotence and undertake firm reforms, by creating strong institutions, an independent judiciary, well-trained police, prosecutors capable of handling cases that stop organized crime, human trafficking and corruption, we will have a solid, pro-european perspective for these states. otherwise, we're going to be in a situation where we're going to find that there are no solutions for these states to evolve. or, as long as there is a wide opening for the western balkans to be part of the european union, we also have an obligation to assist them, financially support them, in these processes that are essential for the salvation of these states and their faster integration.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, congratulations to the rapporteur, i think this is an important step, because we are going through a period of crisis, a period full of challenges and we are called upon to respond to a need. it is clear that the most important resource of the european union is its workforce and it is essential that we ensure that the workforce is well trained, competitive, efficient and clearly we need a very rigorous and predictable legal framework to ensure that european workers feel safe from all the vulnerabilities that may arise in this transition to a green and digital economy. we have an obligation to ensure that changes resulting from new technologies, changes in working conditions and interventions in employment are addressed by the collaboration of all parties. it is essential to understand that the right to participate is a fundamental right for anyone working in the labour market in the european union. we must therefore ensure that the democratic values we promote around the world are also respected in the workplace by ensuring real measures on workers' rights to information, consultation and participation in european enterprises. last month i voted in this house on the minimum wage directive and i believe it is essential that workers have the right to be consulted and informed about the remuneration for the work they do. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again on her work.
ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to award the sakharov prize for freedom of thought to alexei navalny. the empty chair in this circle is a sad symbol of the fact that a winner of our prize is deprived of his liberty. we deeply regret that alexei navalny cannot be with us today because he is unjustly detained in a prison in the russian federation. but i am very honoured to have with us daria naval'naja, daughter of alexei naval'nyj, who is here today to represent him, and his chief of staff, leonid volkov. we're also joined by kira yarmysh, from your press office. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to welcome you all and thank you for being here. i invite you to watch a video about this year's sakharov prize winner. ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, 2021 is the year of andrei sakharov's centenary. his peaceful struggle to promote human rights and his courage in confronting the brutal and repressive soviet regime inspired the prize we are about to award today. andrei sakharov would perhaps be saddened and at the same time proud to know that, more than thirty years after the fall of communism, the prize bearing his name is awarded to his compatriot alexei navalny. if sadness can be motivated by the fact that today the russian political regime is guilty of repressing civil society organizations, restricting media freedom and imprisoning political opponents, then no doubt sakharov would be proud of the determination with which alexei navalny is fighting for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the courage shown by alexei navalny is astonishing and admirable. they threatened him, they abused him, they poisoned him, they arrested him, they imprisoned him, but they couldn't shut him up. he has fought tirelessly for the russian people as an anti-corruption activist, political candidate, blogger and lawyer. in other words: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to us in the present. as he himself once said, corruption thrives where there is no respect for human rights. and i think he's right. the fight against corruption is a fight for universal human rights and is certainly also a fight for human dignity, good governance and the rule of law. it is for defending these principles that alexei navalny was deprived of his liberty and almost lost his life. he's a political prisoner. and on behalf of the european parliament, i call for his immediate and unconditional release. as every year, i also urgently call for the release of all the other sakharov prize winners we do not forget them, we will not forget them who are still in prison: the tothams, nasrin sotoudeh, aymara nieto and raif badawi. this is the first time that the taliban have been able to take over the country. sergei tsikanousky and mikalai statkevich, two of the 2020 winners, were unjustly sentenced yesterday by the illegal belarusian regime to 18 and 15 years in prison, it's a shame. among the hundreds of political prisoners in belarus there are also four winners, including maria kolesnikova and ales bialiatski. other sakharov prize winners are being harassed. this is the case of dr mukwege, who is facing an alarming increase in intimidation and death threats. this is also the case of memorial, the 2009 prize winner and one of the oldest and most prominent voices in defence of fundamental freedoms in russia, which is currently undergoing liquidation. in a world where authoritarian regimes and populist forces attack human rights and undermine fundamental freedoms, all these sakharov prize winners, and among them alexei navalny, are showing us all, by their example, what it means to fight for freedom. i am an inspiration to all those who dream of a better and more just society, in russia but not only. the european parliament will spare no effort to support their struggles and to protect them. i and the whole european parliament look forward to the day when alexei navalny can return to the european parliament to receive the sakharov prize in person. i now give the floor to mrs naval'naja, and the members of the european parliament from all the member states who are present or are telephoning are eager to hear her.
on behalf of aleksei navalny, winner of the 2021 sakharov prize. – hi, thank you so much, this is truly incredible! mr president, before i start my speech, i want to tell everyone how incredibly grateful i am to be here accepting this award for my father and, at the same time, absolutely terrified. this is a big honour for me to be able to stand here in front of all of you and, as a 20-year-old college student who doesn’t know much about politics, i’m very much afraid and anxious about messing this up! when i first heard that my dad, aleksei navalny, was being given the sakharov prize, i was extremely happy for two reasons. the first one: this is a tremendous honour, recognition of his merits, and high praise of the work that has been done and is continuing to be done by him and his co-workers. and most importantly, it’s a signal to those tens of millions of citizens in my country who are continuing to fight for the better fate for russia. i will also name the second reason, although it is a little frank and awkward. my father is receiving this award from the european parliament and when you receive such an award, you get to come and speak in front of the european parliament. unfortunately, for obvious reasons, he wasn’t able to be here today, and i thought to myself: well, i guess someone better run and get that ticket to strasbourg and seize the opportunity to come and see this wonderful thing for myself. and over some time, i realised that this might actually be what the nightmare of myself and my family looks like. me travelling to different conferences and summits, giving speeches in my dad’s name. sometimes he’s even awarded something but i’m the one travelling, i’m the one writing the speech, and starting it with a joke, while he’s in jail. and i will continue travelling, meanwhile reading articles about the horrible conditions my dad is being held in. it’s not like there’s much to do about it, so i travel and speak, and he continues to be held in confinement. and this doesn’t only concern aleksei navalny. where are last year’s laureates – the belarusian opposition – now? mostly in prison. where is the 2010 nobel peace prize laureate lui xiaobo? he died in prison. and here, i ask myself today: why is it so hard to free from captivity those who are fighting for human rights? why are they still thrown in jail, not only all over the world, but in european – geographically european – countries in the 21st century? europe is great and almighty. the will of the european citizens is expressed by the resolutions of the members of the european parliament, and those are precise, correct and fair resolutions. they are supported by the united kingdom, the united states, australia, new zealand and the whole free world. but those who are like my father continue sitting in prison watching more and more of their allies being thrown behind bars. you know, i’ve heard this many times and am sure i will again, maybe even in the corridors after this ceremony. ‘you know, dasha,’ they will say to me, ‘i understand why you’re feeling this way because it concerns your family and close ones. but in the real world, however, we have to be more pragmatic.’ and, in those hallways, i’ll nod my head and say, ‘yes, of course.’ what else can i say? i’m a 20-year-old college student and i don’t feel very comfortable arguing with experienced and responsible pragmatics. however, here today, taking advantage of the fact that i have the microphone – no one will take it away from me, and i don’t have to argue with anyone personally, feeling impolite – i would like to oppose that pragmatism. this is the sakharov prize and andrei sakharov was probably one of the most non-pragmatic people on the planet. i don’t understand why those who advocate for pragmatic relations with dictators can’t simply open the history books. it would be a very pragmatic act and having done it, it’s very easy to understand the inescapable political law: the pacification of dictators and tyrants never works. no matter how many people try to deceive themselves, hoping that another madman who clings to power will behave decently in response to concessions and flirtations, it will never happen. the very essence of authoritarian power involves a constant increase in bets, an increase in aggression, and the search for new enemies. and those who once said ‘let’s not push lukashenko and continue the dialogue’ when he was beating people up and throwing them behind bars, achieved only that now, in order to sentence someone, lukashenko has to stop a whole passenger plane. another thing that pragmatists don’t want to do for some reason, which urges them to remember about the expenses and economic losses, is simply to pick up a calculator and see how much their pragmatism costs, in particular to the european taxpayers. years of flirting with putin made it clear to him that to increase his ratings, he can start a war. how much will the war with ukraine cost europe? even now, with so much news on russian troops coming to the ukrainian border, no one’s really talking about it. no pragmatic trade cooperation will recoup the share of the direct loss that will have to be incurred. not to mention the cost of the time that western politicians like yourselves have already spent on solving the problem instead of dealing with their own affairs in their own countries. one of the opposition leaders, boris nemtsov, is killed with shots in the back, right by the kremlin. and then comes the pragmatist who says: ‘well, we can’t do much about it. let’s limit ourselves to a tough statement and then continue the conversation.’ and then they’ll kill the second and the third, and the fourth will be killed in the centre of berlin, and the fifth in the uk. and then they also blow up some warehouses in europe, and then they start killing with chemical weapons. and what we know is just about unsuccessful assassination attempts. how many were successful? we already know that a real terrorist group has been created inside putin’s special services, killing citizens of my country without a hearing or trial. without justice. they were close to killing my mother. they nearly killed my father, and no one will guarantee that tomorrow european politicians won’t start falling dead by simply touching a doorknob. and now, you’re already increasing the police budget, you give a lot of money to special services, spend billions on new ways to detect those toxic substances, and these are the consequences of pragmatism. ‘don’t push it, we need to act carefully and not anger them’, says the pragmatist. and tomorrow, dictators inspired by half measures of the west will transport thousands of people to the border of the european union, forcing women and children to storm the fences, and secretly dreaming of someone being shot or trampled in the crowd. let pragmatists answer how much will it cost poland or lithuania or the entire european union? they will answer me: ‘what do you want? these are sovereign states, they have their own governments. our capabilities are very limited. are you proposing a nuclear war to free the political prisoners?’ of course, i don’t propose starting a war. however, i will note that although it’s not successful, it has started and there are real victims, and they’re using both cyber and chemical weapons. the fact that european banks freely launder corrupted billions of putin and his friends, that the yachts of putin’s oligarchs continue being sensations on the european mediterranean, that 99% of top officials of russia and belarus directly involved in crimes are all still freely allowed to travel in europe, just like their families, are all sure signs that many of those who make decisions don’t even try to win at least the small wars in this battle. they talk too much and think about the realm of politics, considering actions based on ideas and principles which, frankly, are naive and stupid. and you know what. it seems to me that the problem is that the desire to appeal to the dictators again and again, not to anger him, to ignore his crimes as long as it’s possible, is not a pragmatic approach at all. it’s time to say it straight. under the sign of pragmatism there is cynicism, hypocrisy and corruption. there is a constant war between idealism and pragmatism. there are fierce battles in european politics. but even choosing the side of pragmatism shouldn’t mean betraying your ideas. when i wrote to my dad and asked: what exactly do you want me to say in the speech from your point, he answered: say that no one can dare to equate russia to putin’s regime. russia is a part of europe, and we strive to become a part of it. but we also want europe to strive for itself. to those amazing principles, which are at its core. we strive for a europe of ideas. the celebration of human rights, democracy and integrity. and we don’t want europe of chancellors and ministers who dream of getting a job on the board of putin’s state-owned companies or sailing on oligarchs’ yachts. today, on this stage, receiving this high amazing award for my father, aleksei navalny, i thank you and through all of you i welcome the europe of ideas and principles. the european union is an incredible miracle created by nations whose whole history is an endless war with each other. despite all the difficulties and problems, however, the eu has encountered and will encounter, i believe that in its future one day my country will become a part of it. to finish this speech, i want to quote a great compatriot of mine, in whose honour this award was named: ‘my destiny was in some sense exceptional. not because of false modesty but because of a wish to be accurate i note that my destiny has turned out to be larger than my personality. i’ve simply tried to live up to my own destiny.’ i hope we all have the strength to live up to our destinies. freedom for aleksei navalny!
i should like to begin by announcing that the epp has communicated to the president some decisions to change the appointments made to committees. these decisions will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and will take effect from the date of this announcement.
before we begin today's voting period, i would like to give the floor, pursuant to rule 59 (4), to mr andreas schwab on the referral back to the committee for interinstitutional negotiations of his report on the digital markets regulation. i'm going to give the floor to congressman schwab.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. in accordance with rule 59 (4) of the rules of procedure, i would like to ask that the digital markets act be referred back to committee after the vote so that interinstitutional negotiations can begin.
this request will be put to the vote after the commission's proposal has been voted on. and now we move on to today's voting period. the votes on the dossiers will be taken as indicated in the agenda. the voting period will be from 12.40 to 13.45. the voting shall be conducted in accordance with the same procedure as in the previous voting period and all votes shall be cast by roll-call. i declare the voting period open. members may vote until 1.45 p.m. the results of the votes will be announced at 7 p.m. as scheduled. the debate will resume at 3 p.m. with a debate on topical and urgent subjects, pursuant to rule 162 of the rules of procedure, in particular the european commission's guidelines on the use of inclusive language.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. i am not going to go into detail. i would like to begin by thanking the commission for having stopped the first texts of these guidelines when they became politically relevant. i would like to thank mr schinas, who will be speaking for the commission later, and also mrs von der leyen. it is not the commission's position, and it is good that this has been made clear. nevertheless, my group has requested today's debate because there is a feeling of unease, because people outside have asked themselves the question: what happened? what is the reason for making such guidelines? ladies and gentlemen, there is a feeling that we should no longer talk about these fundamental issues of our society, namely faith and the celebration of christmas. to live by faith, to celebrate christmas, to have faith, is for us as christian democrats something good, something right. of course, this is true of all faiths, no question about it. freedom of belief and also freedom not to believe are central to the european way of life. and that is why, mr vice-president, we also believe that we need a special envoy for religious freedom on a global level, that we europeans go out into the world and also promote this freedom of religion. but religious freedom must not be misunderstood as tolerance, which leads to the relegation of religious symbols to the private sphere, that we are not allowed to live our faith. i'm a catholic. i believe in god. i believe in the fact that at christmas now god comes into our world, shows us how a life, a successful life works, then dies and also shows that there is a perspective after death. i believe it, it's my belief, it's my creed, and i think it belongs in the public domain. it is also part of the plenary of this parliament that we say what we stand for without forcing anyone else to do anything. ladies and gentlemen, the feeling that faith is a private matter and is being pushed out of the public eye, that is the real problem behind it. europe is a christian continent. europe has christian roots. europe's dna is christian. europe today would be unthinkable without christianity. and over 300 million people on this continent call themselves christians - 300 million, two-thirds of the citizens of the european union. so let us make sure that these basic beliefs, these basic convictions, are not forced into the private sphere. i would like to invite you to fly across europe, to start in dublin and fly to athens, to start in riga and fly all the way to lisbon. and you'll notice the diversity: the languages, the food, the drink, the way we dance. there is a great deal of diversity on the continent, and i am glad to be european because it is so diverse. but there is a commonality, and that is that in the village you fly over, and in many of the cities you fly over, there is a christian church in the middle. and that is why this commitment to these christian roots is so important to us. and as a christian democrat, i would also like to say that we want to preserve this christian character of the continent not only from the point of view of history but also for the future. the achievements on which we are building our european way of life today, the social market economy, equality between men and women, freedom of religion, abolition of the death penalty - we are the only continent to have completely banned the death penalty - and above all freedom, would be unthinkable without the christian human image. and let me add one last thought, even to those who do not profess the christian faith or other faiths: all the countries of the european union declare christmas a public holiday, on which we are obliged not to go to work, or are invited not to go to work. so why is christmas and every other christian holiday a benefit to all of us? because all of europe is going to be quiet. because our societies have places where we can sit still, where we can't send an email, we can't make a phone call. so for the non-christian parts too, the year structure we have, shaped by christianity, is an achievement and an advantage. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether it will take a decision on the matter. what happened? there's been a mistake. it's been clarified. people want to see that we are also thinking about the issues that we do as christian democrats. and we want to make clear what we stand for. living by faith is a positive thing. freedom of religion is central. europe is a christian continent and should remain so for the future. - i'll see you later. - merry christmas to you!
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, ‘europe is an aspiration of living in a society where you can be who you are, live where you like, love who you want and aim as high as you want. it is an aspiration of a world full of new technologies and age-old values, of a europe that takes the global lead on the major challenges of our times’. these are the words that you can read on the first page of president von der leyen’s political guidelines, the guidelines she presented to this house in july 2019 before you elected her as president of the european commission. these same words and this same spirit are the ones that guide the work of this commission, of a europe that works for the benefit of all, of a europe faithful to its motto: ‘united in diversity’. as european institutions, it is our duty to respect the diversity that constitutes our union because this topic is so important and so sensitive that we have to get it right. at times, it is easy to get it wrong, as we can see from the topic of this debate on an internal staff document never seen by the college of commissioners, and long withdrawn because it did not serve its intended purpose, nor did it meet all commission quality standards. i’m certain you will agree with me that, as eu institutions, we must take care, both in our work and in our communication, to address all sectors and segments of european society. la diversité remarquable de notre tissu social, de nos langues, de nos cultures et de nos traditions rend l’enjeu d’autant plus intéressant et notre communication doit relever cet enjeu afin que chacun puisse être inclus avec la reconnaissance et le respect de cette diversité tangible. la coexistence pacifique, évidente et hétérogène de tous nos citoyens, de nos cultures et de nos religions en europe est admirée par le monde entier. nous devons la célébrer avec fierté et en même temps, nous devons la protéger. et c’est précisément ceci qui nous distingue des régimes et des idéologies autoritaires et intolérants. c’est pour cela que nous sommes des européens. l’europe doit être l’endroit où le respect d’autrui s’épanouit, où la tolérance règne. des millions d’européens sont impatients de célébrer noël et je suis sûr que c’est aussi le cas pour nombre d’entre vous présents dans cet hémicycle, comme c’est le cas pour moi. les citoyens juifs célèbrent hanouka, les citoyens musulmans célèbrent la fin du ramadan. cela va de soi, c’est la réalité de vivre en europe. c’est la réalité du modèle de société que nous présentons, et nous pouvons tous en être fiers. we are indeed proud of 2000 years of judeo-christian culture and traditions in europe. it is what has made the european union what it is today, and we are all proud today because we live in a europe that values and protects all religions equally, as well as the right not to believe in any religion. last friday, as vice—president in charge of dialogue with religious and non—confessional organisations, i had the pleasure to exchange with religious leaders, in the framework of article 17 dialogue, with catholics, protestants, orthodox, muslim, jewish, hindu and buddhists. in europe, different religions coexist and thrive. different traditions are proudly celebrated. europe’s common values are based on the recognition of the different identities, including religious ones, which constitute the pillars of our union. it is inscribed in the preamble of the treaty of the european union, when it refers to the inspiration drawn from the cultural, religious and humanist inheritance of europe, from which we have developed the universal human rights, democracy, equality and the rule of law, as it is the desire to deepen the solidarity between their peoples while respecting their history, their culture and their traditions. κυρίες και κύριοι βουλευτές, ως ευρωπαϊκή ένωση έχουμε μπροστά μας σήμερα πολλές, δύσκολες, σημαντικές και πολύπλοκες προκλήσεις. πρέπει να παλέψουμε ως ενωμένη ευρώπη πολλά δύσκολα θέματα: την πανδημία, την ασφάλεια την εργαλειοποίηση των μεταναστευτικών ροών, την ανάκαμψη που θα είναι δίκαιη για όλους. είμαι πεπεισμένος ότι μπορούμε και πρέπει να αφοσιωθούμε ακριβώς σε αυτά τα μεγάλα, σε αυτά που μας ενώνουν, να επικεντρώσουμε το ενδιαφέρον μας και τη δυναμική μας στην οριστική καταπολέμηση όλων αυτών που ενώνουν, όχι όλων αυτών που χωρίζουν και διακρίνουν τους ευρωπαίους. nothing can, or should, distract us from what unites us and what europeans expect from us.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by wishing you and your families a very merry christmas. the guidelines prepared by commissioner dalli on the use of inclusive language, promptly withdrawn by the commission, deeply offended the sensibilities of millions of citizens and thousands of community officials. if the intention was to protect cultural diversity and highlight the inclusive nature of the eu, it was done in the wrong way. the commission's proposal is a good one, but it is not enough to say that it is a good one. an open society never denies its majority culture, its roots, its values. in these two years of pandemic we have recovered the spirit of solidarity among citizens, that solidarity that has its origins precisely in christianity, as in christianity the separation between state and church originate, respect for women and also this our flag represents our christian roots: the twelve stars are the twelve tribes of israel, which are worn on the head of the virgin mary, and the flag is blue because the virgin's mantle is blue. the commission's absurd language does not take account of the fact that language is linked to a place, a time and a community, it is our cultural heritage. reality is not changed by tearing down statues and erasing words. as the writer primo levi used to say, there is no future without memory. i would like to conclude by paying tribute to patrick zaki, an egyptian boy who was held for months and months in prison for defending the right of coptic christians in egypt to practice their religion.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr vice-president, the president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, assured us at the beginning of her mandate that she would head a political committee. if you are a political committee, please listen more carefully to the voice of the citizens and let's not deepen the rifts that risk alienating them even further from the european project! i am sure that the european commission's guidelines on inclusive language were written with the best possible intentions. but the result was the opposite of what we expected, as you can see from the reactions here. we're in the middle of a pandemic, energy prices are rising, inflation is rising, a war is raging on the ukrainian border. these are the questions that people are asking now and they're waiting for answers. at a time when anxiety and anger are at their peak, let us not give the extremists the opportunity to feed them even more with this kind of artificial subjects! even though it's an internal document, the approach has been one that has ignored religious and political sensitivities, and it's a shame that from this neglect we have ended up with this subject holding up the european agenda in most member states. the founding fathers of the union supported the need for a sense of belonging to a common european spirit, the need to strengthen a sense of european identity, and christianity is part of our common cultural heritage. it's not one religion against another, it's simply part of our heritage. it is an integral part of this identity and this is what we need to bring to light, what unites us as europeans, staying true to our local and national specifics and not setting rules that amputate our values! obviously we want the integration of minorities in europe and we want to respect the rights of all our citizens, regardless of their religion or belief, but i do not need the european commission to tell me what to wish my family for christmas. such approaches risk alienating citizens even further from europe and its founding values. as a liberal, i could never agree to impose on people a way of thinking or speaking through rules or norms. i prefer a europe of debate rather than a europe of common thought, a europe of diversity, understood as the sum of our common identity and not as a fearful position in which we are afraid to assert ourselves as individuals, a europe of openness and curiosity to discover new cultures all the time. a europe united in diversity does not mean leveling language and reducing forms of address to the lowest common denominator. this europe united in diversity means diversity of beliefs and diversity in the manifestation of traditions. the christmas holiday that is coming marked my childhood, it is part of my identity, both as a romanian and as a european. it's a part that i cherish and i'm proud of and i don't think anyone can be bothered that i believe in god, that i believe in christmas and that i live this feeling and express it in this way and i'm glad that we had the opportunity to have this conversation which i hope clarifies things and doesn't inflame them any more.
madam president, please. we heard from the european commission that it was withdrawing the document that had been made public for revision, and we did not expect this response, because it means that this effort to censor language will remain, and in the form of a new proposal, but it will come back. i lived under the communist regime, and i have to say that the commission's present text could have been a tribute to the party bureaucracy of the time. christmas or jesus' name was not allowed to be spoken, but at least john or mary's name was not hurt then. europe is a melting pot of religions. i'm sure that none of their followers would like it if, for the sake of equality, we no longer celebrated christmas, hanukkah, or eid mubarak. and atheists should be tolerant of hearing religious greetings for a few days a year. christian culture, religious traditions are being eradicated by commissioner dalli, and she has no authority to do so. there's no excuse for this, mr. vice president. it should be stopped. this document should not be reformed, but should be solemnly burned in front of the brussels commission building in brussels and its ashes scattered in the north sea so that it will never be seen again in any form. merry christmas to the committee, colleagues.
this debate is very important, manfred, congratulations. madam president, your excellences, for 500 years, every day at noon in all the catholic churches of the world the bells ring in honor of the romanian prince iancu de hunedoara. and this was followed by a papal bull, which praised the strategy of genius that ensured the victory of christianity against mehmed ii, the conqueror of constantinople. in the history of europe, the romanian people have been the defenders of christianity countless times, and i am proud to be romanian. coming from romania, the gateway to christianity, i love europe and the european union, which stands like a dome on the towers of all the christian churches on the continent. i am obliged to continue to defend it, and europe will celebrate now and for centuries to come the birth of the saviour. someone's playing with fire. whether they are neo-marxists or just individuals incapable of understanding the history of the making of this european world, is of no great importance. it is essential, however, that the president of the european commission and the president of the european council publicly state whether they subscribe to these concepts and attitudes. we who celebrate the birth of our lord will not give up the freedom to manifest our beliefs publicly, with courage, with love, with much love. happy christmas to you, my fellow europeans!
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, europe’s rich and diverse cultural and religious heritage is a source of strength. it must be protected and it must be cherished. diversity is our strength and uniformity is our enemy. our identities are not a zero-sum game. no one should feel less at the expense of someone else. at the heart of the world’s view of what the european union represents is our values: democracy, the rule of law, fairness, inclusion, equality and, above all, human dignity. we would all do well to remember that the crux of the notion of human dignity is the concept of respect. there are many pressing challenges that we face today as a union. it is our duty to chart the way forward together, whilst championing a model of society and the european way of life that does not leave anyone behind, but gives them all equal opportunity and, above all, respect for our diversity. kala christouena, merry christmas, joyeux noël, feliz navidad and buon natale!
in writing. unlike some colleagues, i do not consider this debate to be pointless, even if the starting point was a document for internal use of the european commission, withdrawn following the european scandal that its appearance in the press triggered. the recommendations, even for internal use, were effectively stupid and untimely. the major problem is that the slippage of some european officials under the commissioner for equality is part of a dangerous trend. and the vehement reaction of citizens, media and politicians across the european union makes it clear that we do not accept that europe's christian identity is hidden or denied! on the contrary, i believe that there is a need for a stronger and more open affirmation of our christian identity, of the traditions that bind us together and of the faith that guides us. we're tolerant, but that doesn't mean we put our own specifics in parentheses. europe is a christian continent and everyone living here must respect the history, faith and culture that the european peoples have built up over two thousand years. and one more thing: it is not the job of the european commission to give santa a free ticket! take the mandate you've been given seriously! - merry christmas to you.
madam president, i think that the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) process is being developed at a very good rhythm, democratically. it is being deployed extremely efficiently, and we all have to congratulate ourselves on how things are moving forward. i have a couple of things to mention. i think probably the most immediate challenge is going to be absorption and execution in order for the instrument to have a real macroeconomic impact. i think this is one of the things we should focus on at the moment, and also be sure that all the climate goals that we enshrined in the regulation are well respected. but not only that, also to ask member states in their recovery plans to update their climate and energy plans as they will need to do towards the 2030 goals. i think this is something that is going to be very important. thinking of the future, commissioner and vice—president, i think that with the rrf we have learned a better way of organising our economic governance – greater ownership, having specific policies for every member state, not having one rule and one—size—fits—all for everybody – and i think this is an extremely good lesson for the discussions ahead in the reform of the semester and also our fiscal rules.
madam president, commissioners and ministers! during his last visit to poland, commissioner thierry breton formulated the political conditions for the approval of the polish reconstruction plan. he spoke about the need to abolish the disciplinary chamber and also about the need to restore judges who were removed from this judgement by court decisions. so, in addition to applying a double standard to poland since 2016, when poland changed its government to the law and justice government, the commission is formulating further political demands towards my country that have nothing to do with the regulation governing the functioning of this fund. i wanted to ask the commissioners: are you aware that you are asking the polish government to interfere in the functioning of the polish judiciary, in the judgments of the courts? are you suggesting that these judgments should be repealed (i mean judgments against judges)? this is an invitation to the executive branch to violate the constitution and to interfere with the tripartite government! this is the same as if, in this very room, the prime minister of my country, mateusz morawiecki, had asked the president of the von der leyen commission to suspend the judges of the court of justice of the european union who participated in the hunt organised by various organisations in the château de chambord in france.
madam president, a few days ago, while mrs von der leyen was congratulating spain upon receiving a first tranche of the eu recovery funds, catalan smes were announcing that small businesses are de facto being excluded from the funds. there is much uncertainty on whether small firms will manage to access the funds through the maze of red tape. hence, their investments are on hold. spanish mismanagement not only works as a mis—investment. it is also the ideal channel to pump eu funds to spanish crony capitalism. remember react—eu? that was supposed to offer emergency relief from the pandemic, right? well, the government of andalusia used eur 78 million to buy abengoa’s headquarters with that money. abengoa, yes – the bankrupt spanish corporation that just last week was fined for oligopolistic practices. they needed help, and they got it with eu funds. the complacency of the european bubble contradicts the reality on the ground. today i celebrate that i agreed with my colleague and great economist in renew.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the idea behind the building and resilience facility was to provide member states with a way out of the covid-19 crisis. the aim is to set the course for long-term growth for the next generation and to create real european added value. the commission president assured us that the european parliament will play a decisive role in this process, not only in legislation but also in implementation. unfortunately, the reality is a little different. the commission is working more in the background on the national plans and is particularly visible when the president can hand over a cheque. if you look in detail at what these checks are issued for, you can almost understand this lack of transparency. spain is the first member state to receive a genuine first instalment from the reconstruction fund after prefinancing. spain has had to complete 52 milestones to achieve this and is now receiving 10 billion euros. however, a closer look at the milestones reveals that most of the objectives were already achieved before spain even submitted its application. so what happened here? it is obvious that projects which were already planned and in the process of being implemented have been re-declared and charged to the european taxpayer. that can't be in the inventor's best interest. the idea of the building fund was to provide an additional impetus and not simply to replace national programmes. i would ask you to change your attitude towards us, commissioner, or else we shall fail miserably.
madam president, there were many who questioned the need for a european response to the pandemic or sought to limit such european intervention. today, the importance of the mechanism with its financing by common debt is accepted by almost everyone and few question it. i repeat some remarks for improvement. first, funding should be channelled in a timely manner to implement reforms and investments, but in a way that ensures equal access for all and not just for large organisations or powerful ones with an advantage. secondly, just as there are quantitative economic indicators and national plans, there should be quantitative social indicators. and third, the new wave of the pandemic with its economic and social impact is creating new data in our economies. the commission and the council should take account of the situation both in the implementation of the recovery and resilience mechanism and in the discussions on the revision of the financial framework of the european union. finally, we need rules for fiscal sustainability that are responsive to reality, but which are citizen-centred.
madam president, the recovery and resilience mechanism was created by the european union for its citizens. that's why national recovery and residency plans are not a government's, they're citizens' plans. they are needed to fix and modernize our health systems, to support entrepreneurs, to correct social inequalities, to innovate industry and create jobs, to provide access and opportunity for children and young people, access to education. 22 member states have approved the plans. i want to convey to the member states that with the plans you have assumed a responsibility to your citizens to implement these plans in a transparent, fair and democratic way. a plan is not a piece of paper that can be edited, it is not a menu from which we can just pick and choose what we like, and the goals and the curtains are not a simple table. dear governments, do not politicize this much-needed roadmap, do not waste a historic opportunity for your citizens! you have the opportunity to show maturity and not spend populist resources that belong to the citizens. as the european parliament's co-rapporteur on this mechanism and its implementation, i will monitor how you do your duty to the citizens and ensure that any departure from the interests of european citizens is found and sanctioned. i would like to conclude by congratulating the european commission on the launch of the scoreboard monitoring tool. here's another rule rule that's been met! i am convinced, mr vice-president, commissioner, that we will have in the european commission an excellent partner to ensure a successful implementation. merry christmas and happy birthday!
before we move on to the next item on the agenda, i have an announcement to make. following the resignation of mr sven giegold, who took up a post in the new german government, parliament has decided that he will no longer be a member of the government as from tomorrow 16 december, in accordance with the rules of procedure, and has informed the public authority accordingly.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr gheorghe falcă, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the consultations of the committee on petitions in 2020 (2021/2019 (ini)) (a9-0323/2021).
the reporter. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, 2020 has been a difficult year for all of us because of the covid-19 pandemic. this year, citizens sent 1,573 petitions to the european parliament, a significant increase compared to 2018 and 2019. this increase in 2020 is due to citizens' concerns related to, obviously, the health sector. the main topics of interest of the petitions addressed in 2020 relate to fundamental rights, and there we talk about the impact of emergency measures taken by the member states, the right to work, the right to information, we talk about the health field, where the protection of the health of citizens, the purchase and distribution of vaccines and the quality of protective equipment are the concerns addressed by citizens. in the environmental field, we talk mostly about mining, nuclear safety and air pollution. in the area of justice, we are talking about concerns about the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. when we talk about education, we talk about discriminatory access to education or contested national reforms, and when we talk about the internal market, we talk in particular about national travel restrictions and their effect on free movement in the european union. ladies and gentlemen, our committee is the only one that shapes its agenda according to the demands of citizens, and petitions are a gateway for citizens to the european institutions, a unique opportunity for the european parliament and other institutions to establish a direct link with citizens and residents of the european union. moreover, admissible petitions also make valuable contributions to the work of other parliamentary committees, which give opinions or receive petitions for information. in 2020, 56 petitions for opinion and 385 petitions for information were submitted. although the time allocated to committees in 2020 was shorter, we expressed our views on important issues raised in petitions and contributed to the preparation of several parliamentary reports. i would remind you of the agreement on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union, the resolution on the international abduction of children from the european union in japan and the resolution on the allocation of additional funds for biomedical research. in our report we also appreciate the work of the european ombudsman and the good cooperation with him. in 2020, the web portal for petitions was developed, becoming more secure and easier to use. finally, i would like to mention that we regret that in 2020 it was not possible for petitioners to come physically to our committee, but citizens must rely on us, those who accept and discuss petitions. so, thank you and a merry christmas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are 750 of them, mostly vietnamese, working on the construction of a tyre factory and living in nightmarish conditions. winter is coming and there is no heating or heavy clothing. many would like to return to their homes in vietnam but cannot because their papers have even been withdrawn. this is what is called modern slavery. we are not talking about some dramatic situation on the other side of the world, but about serbia in the heart of europe. the sino-serbian partnership has flourished in recent years, but it hides a dark side in the form of blatant environmental and labor rights violations. commissioner, by signing the accession process - a process which i fully support - serbia has accepted specific environmental and social obligations which must be respected, and we must firmly remember this. but we must also be able to provide a real alternative to chinese money, both with the western balkans economic investment plan and with the next global gateway. we must send a strong and clear message to our partners in belgrade that there is another way, so that situations such as the one we are discussing today are not repeated.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me start by reiterating our commitment to serbia and to its european integration. let me also recognise the important role of this parliament in this respect, and this includes the work of the delegation for relations with serbia and the engagement of members of parliament in improving the electoral conditions in serbia through the parliament-facilitated inter-party dialogue. i would also like to welcome the recent opening of accession negotiations in the chapters under cluster 4. this sends a strong signal and one very relevant for this debate: namely that the eu and serbia are stepping up their engagement on the green agenda. we look forward to the implementation of the eu standards in this area by serbia as soon as possible. obviously, a lot of work is ahead of us, including on environmental issues, but also on the rule of law and fundamental rights. in this context, we have seen the recent reports about the working and living conditions of vietnamese workers in a chinese-owned factory in zrenjanin in northern serbia. let me underline that the eu expects domestic legislation and relevant international and european conventions on labour and other human rights to be fully enforced for the benefit of all workers in serbia. we understand that the relevant authorities of serbia have started to investigate this case, and we will continue to monitor these developments closely. we have also been closely following the recent protests in serbia over the last two weekends. freedom of assembly is a fundamental right. it needs to be exercised peacefully and in full respect of the rule of law and public order. the police has the duty to protect the exercise of this right while maintaining law and order, and the police are the only ones with legitimacy to use proportionate force for that purpose, if justified. violence against peaceful protesters is completely unacceptable. we expect that any instances of violence are swiftly and thoroughly investigated by the competent serbian authorities. we take note of the recent decision by the government to withdraw the law on expropriation from the national assembly and of the adoption of the amendments to the law on referendum by the national assembly on 10 december. more broadly, on environment, let me recall that the eu attaches great importance to, and advocates for, the highest sustainability requirements for all activities related to raw materials, from exploration, through mining, processing and trading, to post closure. in view of minimising the environmental and social footprints of raw materials projects, the commission published, in september this year, the eu’s principles for sustainable raw materials. the eu remains also the biggest donor and investor in environmental protection and addressing climate change in serbia. in the past 15 years, the eu donated more than eur 435 million in grant funding to serbia for environmental protection. this demonstrates the eu’s commitment to continue supporting serbia on its european path.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. the meeting is adjourned. it will resume at 1 p.m. with the announcement of the results of the first round of voting today. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. we condemn any form of forced labour or any other violent violation of labour rights in any country in the world. however, it is enough to read the contents of this resolution of the european parliament to see that its motivation is not forced labour or the right to protest, but simply to put pressure on serbia to subordinate its policy to the european union and the interests of its great powers and economic and financial groups. whatever solidarity we may have with the struggles of these workers or the people for their environmental rights, we cannot support a resolution which uses them to circumvent a genuine treaty of interference, including through funding of entities which promote the interests of the eu. the eu is also lavish in its disregard for democracy and human rights, which it so hypocritically proclaims, and in its systematic promotion of social regression, including workers' rights. all peoples are sovereign to decide their own path. if serbia is legitimate in proposing its accession to the eu, this cannot mean abdicating its sovereignty and subordinating itself to the interests, conditionalities and blackmail of the eu. that is what we stand for for serbia as for portugal. something the eu will not allow.
the ecr group has sent the president decisions on the amendment of appointments to committees. these decisions will be published in the minutes of today's meeting and will enter into force on the date of this announcement.
we now come to the results of the first round of voting today. (the sitting was suspended at 1.06 p.m.)
we now come to the second round of voting today. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting will take place from 1.45 to 3.00 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 3 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 4 p.m. the debate will resume at 3 p.m. with the oral question to the commission on obstacles to free movement of goods. (the sitting was suspended at 1.46 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on obstacles to the free movement of goods by anna cavazzini, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (o-000072/2021 b9-0043/21) (2021/2908 ((rsp)). i would remind members that there are no spontaneous speeches in any of the debates of this session and that no blue cards are accepted. as in the past, parliament will also be able to receive contacts from its liaison offices in the member states. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time.
author. – mr president, this oral question aims to address the barriers to the free movement of goods introduced by member states at national level. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) has stressed on several occasions that a well-functioning, strong, fair, inclusive and resilient internal market was also an essential component of the eu’s response to the socio-economic crisis generated by the covid—19 pandemic and of its recovery efforts. the barriers between intra-eu border crossings hinder the integrity of the union’s internal market. this is not in our common interest since the fragmentations reduce choices for consumers and the opportunities for companies, bearing a negative impact on our citizens and our economy. on the other hand, member states could indeed introduce measures to restrict the free movement of goods where such restrictions are justified by overriding reasons of public interest. among the national measures, the imco committee would like to draw the attention of the european commission to traffic restrictions that may affect major eu green-lane border crossings. those measures should be taken in a coordinated way, with the involvement of the european commission and member states, to avoid environment problems being translated from one member state to another and to avoid creating unnecessary delays and deviations in the supply chain. we fully support policies aimed at improving the sustainability of our economy and preserving the environment. a balance should therefore be found between the free movement of goods and environmental and health protection. furthermore, it is important to have an update on how the european commission intends to act to overcome such restrictions or to find alternative solutions agreed at eu level to safeguard the free movement of goods and the proper functioning of the internal market.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, since the beginning of the covid-19 crisis, the commission has emphasised the importance of the green lanes, as they are vital in order to preserve the eu-wide operation of supply chains and the functioning of the single market for goods during these difficult times. the free movement of goods is a key principle of european law. traffic restrictions can be qualified as measures with an effect equivalent to import and export restrictions. however, in specific cases such restrictions may be justified under the treaty. the court of justice confirmed that requirements in the public interest, such as the protection of the environment or health reasons, may justify a restriction if the measure is appropriate to achieving these goals, and does not go beyond what is necessary to achieving them. i stress here that proportionality is key for any legislative or regulatory measure doomed to balance different public interests, while remaining within the boundaries of the eu treaties. besides proportionality, there is another pillar on which all eu legislation is based: non-discrimination. therefore, any restriction on the freedom of movement cannot be based on a discriminatory treatment based on the origin of the persons, companies or vehicles to which it applies. these three major boundaries – eu treaties, proportionality and non-discrimination – create a logic and legal framework under which eu law is applied, and should also be taken at all times into consideration when adopting measures restricting the freedom of movement. of course, we all know that there are cases where traffic restrictions are needed and are being used. as in any area of eu legislation, the commission has and will stand ready to help find solutions that take into account all relevant aspects, and find the correct balance between the different public interests such as the freedom of movement and the protection of environmental health, in order to ensure full respect of all eu law requirements. as guardian of the treaty, the commission retains its right to launch infringement procedures if it considers that eu law is not respected, especially in those cases where the stakeholders involved in applying restrictions do not advance towards complying with their treaty obligations.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the free movement of persons within the european single market is a core principle of the economy and of people's lives. that is why mr ansip rightly pointed out that the committee on the internal market and consumer protection is concerned here with fundamental values in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not distorted. it is not a question of transferring problems from one country to another. the commissioner, i am sure, will be able to give you an answer to your question, but i am afraid that the commission will not be able to give you an answer to your question. i do not think that anyone can have a reasonable interest in the export of environmental problems from one member state to another. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to make the basic principle of proportionality and the basic principle of non-discrimination that you have mentioned really come into play here and to ensure that the connection between italy and germany is possible even without such stays. i think it would also be urgently necessary to include the problems we are discussing in the forthcoming proposal for the single market emergency instrument to ensure that people can easily cross all borders within the european union, not only in the event of a crisis but also outside of a crisis, because it makes people's lives much easier.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to say that, as of 1 january 2021, the austrian federal government of tyrol has unilaterally banned heavy vehicles, except electric or hydrogen vehicles, from crossing the brenner pass at night. this prohibition does not apply to austrian vehicles. as the italian delegation of the democratic party, we in the socialists and democrats are firmly convinced that environmental protection policies are a priority for current and future legislation, and we will always be in the forefront of defending them, but they cannot be implemented in a completely discriminatory way. we cannot therefore ignore the fact that these measures represent a real roadblock, which is damaging to our country and beyond. the brenner pass is a key route for the transport of goods by road throughout the european union. the damage caused by the blockade of the crossing, which sees more than 40 million tonnes of goods passing through annually, is estimated to be around eur 370 million for each hour of delay in the crossing and eur 100 million per year for the increased travel times associated with the alternative rail crossing. we believe that these rules, which affect one of the main transport corridors in the union, are liable to impede the free movement of goods in the internal market and should therefore be prohibited. with this question we ask the european commission whether it has considered how to reconcile the different interests at stake: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement. we would also like to know whether it intends to take action to overcome these unilateral and discriminatory restrictions or to find alternatives agreed at european level to restore free movement and the proper functioning of the market. italy, like all eu countries, is emerging from a phase of socioeconomic crisis linked to the pandemic. it is therefore essential that, alongside environmental protection, we should always consider the importance of recovery for the economic sectors which have suffered the most during this difficult period.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner adina vălean, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the common market, about the european economy, about the need for measures to restore and grow the economy. and yet the free movement of goods is facing more barriers than at any time in the last two years. there are states that impose a series of measures at the borders. we see checks at the borders between member states, even when it comes to the transport of goods. we talked about green lanes for goods, about the effort to make the economy, which is badly affected by the covid-19 pandemic, suffer no more, but we see how trucks stand for hours at the border between some member states - and here i know the situation very well - at the border between romania and hungary, even if in theory goods move freely, whether we are members of the schengen area or not. a single market cannot work under such conditions. we cannot talk about equal opportunities for economic operators, given that goods from romania and bulgaria even wait 24 hours to enter the schengen area. we are talking about artificial barriers to the free movement of goods, which lead to higher product costs and have a direct impact on the economy and development of our regions. these difficulties must be addressed and solved, commissioner, if we want a free market, if we want a strong and resilient economy.
mr president, unilateral national measures taken in response to the covid—19 pandemic often hindered the free movement of goods and seriously affected especially small member states, relying more on a proper functioning internal market. this is especially when we are talking about medicines and medical devices, for instance. but i also want to profit from this debate to recall that we should not forget barriers which already existed before the pandemic, such as the territorial supply constraints (tscs), which can materialise through different practices, such as refusing to supply, or threatening to stop supplying, a particular distributor, limiting the quantities available for sale, inexplicable differences in product ranges and prices between member states, or limiting language options for product packaging. territorial supply constraints are hampering the development of the single market and its potential benefits also for consumers. therefore, the commission must come forward with adequate measures to eliminate them and, thereby, reduce barriers to cross-border trade in view to achieving a fully functioning single market.
mr. chairman, it's been a lot of fun having this conversation, this session. but the subject is not so funny and not so funny. i fully agree with my colleague, mrs kawatzzini, that we must fight against all unnecessary barriers affecting trade within the union. the free internal market and the unimpeded movement of people, goods and capital is the greatest achievement of this union and this community and it must remain so. but to do that, it's important to start by cleaning up the regulatory framework, the empty regulation, the redundant regulation. we cannot talk about how we want to remove internal barriers to trade and at the same time have legislation like the infamous mobility package that reminds most of us of how we voted. a legislative package that brings carriers from the periphery of the european union to their knees is sabotage of the internal market. a legislative package that is insane, pointless and anti-market in its essence. the 'mobility package' favours the old, 'real' member states. the companies estimate that the 'mobility package' affects 17 percent of the gross domestic product of countries such as bulgaria. it's a big problem, and it affects more than 190,000 drivers. so, ladies and gentlemen, if we ever want to have a barrier-free internal market, just stop voting this nonsense. and i end with this - merry christmas, merry christmas and happy new year!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is mainly thanks to the efforts of the european parliament that the movement of goods has been facilitated and that green corridors have been adopted during the pandemic. however, mobility, supplies and the regular flow of goods continue to face obstacles. the member states must provide the conditions for the transport of goods and the free movement of workers in this sector to become a reality. there is no room for artificial barriers in the single market. these do not serve the interests of the economy, the businesses or the consumers. the single market emergency instrument announced by commission president von der leyen is moving in the right direction, but concrete and rapid action is now required to ensure the smooth functioning of this market in the future.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since 1993 the internal market has been the cornerstone of our european cooperation. and today, almost christmas 2021, we are still discussing barriers to that single market. it shows that we have to make efforts day in and day out to keep those markets open, and that we have to prove to each other that we think it's worthwhile to keep those markets open. corona has shown how fragile the single market is. if a country closes its borders, we see very quickly that other countries follow, with minimal possibilities for intervention, commissioner, for the european commission. but as striking as the impact of the covid crisis has been, even more insidiously, new barriers are constantly being added, particularly in the agri-food chain. that's what i'm noticing. under the guise of local production or short-chain production or animal welfare, member states are gradually closing their markets, with dramatic consequences indeed for producers from small countries. the task force on the maintenance of the single market is therefore an important signal, but it must become a body with real power.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for this debate. i think we are very much aligned, as we always were, on supporting the internal market and the free movement of goods. i’m saying that we are aligned and you need to recognise that, at the peak of the trouble with the shutting down of frontiers and long queues of trucks because of the covid restrictions, the commission acted quickly and convinced member states to act with the guidelines. we managed to open the frontiers and we have something solid left after that. the whole principle of green corridors is now embedded, at least in the schengen area, as a principle with 15 minutes to cross a border for trucks with goods. we have digital documents to be presented at the frontier, and the digitalising of documents and goods, so that the time spent checking and verifying is diminished. the last discussion i had with transport ministers, again in anticipation of new restrictions because of omicron, was to give priority to the transport workers for vaccination, so that we will make sure that they do not fall under possible restrictions imposed for health reasons in the member states. it’s something which we are monitoring at all the frontiers – the passes and the corridors – through our satellite application, so we know the waiting times and it’s not such a tough situation as it used to be. but, of course, there are some traditional points in which waiting times are higher and these are at the border of schengen – this, i totally recognise – but also, for example, at the border between bulgaria and romania, and not only romania and hungary. at the time, we discussed various solutions to these queues. for example, i know projects which the commission is ready to support, to develop smart parking before the frontier so that you don’t have a queue of trucks at the frontier with controls for entering the schengen area, but have them some distance away with a smart indication on when they should go to get their pass. so all this use of new technologies and smart ideas would help ease an unfortunate situation, which is the schengen frontier inside our internal market. this week, we have presented the new proposal on the revision of the ten—t regulation. it comes, for example for ireland, with better designed roads towards europe, which would be of the standard promoted by the european commission and european member states as part of our network. they were not very well developed previously because there was no need, but now we are thinking about how to better connect ireland with the continent. many of you discussed brenner. that’s the latest thing that we are working on at the moment. we are permanently working on brenner. the most important thing here is that what is not acceptable is, as mr schwab said, is to transfer problems from one region to another on the corridor. someone on a corridor cannot say that because they have issues with, for example, congestion or the quality of air, they cannot move the queue of trucks from their region to the neighbouring region. i say that because, whatever solution is found, it has to be agreed by everyone in order not to have bottlenecks along such an important corridor. as i say, we are working on this again and are in permanent dialogue with the countries involved. we have relaunched it at government level. we have many very good ideas and solutions, which it is possible to be put in place with the support of the commission as long as they are agreed. but how many ideas and projects will we have and how much willingness will we have to solve them? what we actually need is the political will of the parties involved to agree on a common solution. that being said, we are going to work hard to make sure that any restrictions put on the free flow of goods in the internal market are addressed immediately and we will find solutions for this. i think we are a long way from the beginning of the crisis, so member states’ governments have understood what it would mean for their citizens if they started closing frontiers for one reason or another, and how this would affect people and their economies because of the supply chains. thank you very much for this debate. i wish you a merry christmas and a happy new year.
the debate is closed. we have to announce the results later, so while the members are still here i would like to take this opportunity to thank you and, of course, one or other of the vice-presidents for the good cooperation we had last year, and to wish you a good journey home, a merry christmas and also to those who have nothing to do with the events in bethlehem, a quiet time of rest between the years - between the christian and the secular years - and a good return at the beginning of the next year. i would like to thank not only my colleagues and their staff but also the services here in the house. have a good year. the meeting will be suspended for a few minutes. it will resume at 4 p.m. with the announcement of the results of the second round of voting today. (the sitting was suspended at 3.46 p.m.)
the minutes of the meetings of 13 to 16 december 2021 shall be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next session. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at these meetings to the persons and bodies named in them.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
