i'm not going to tell you. services account for three quarters of the union's gdp. the productivity of service work grew in the european union at half the rate of the united states between 2000 and 2017. at the same time, there are large differences in productivity growth between member states. over the same period, italian labour productivity fell by four per cent, while estonia's increased by 61 per cent. if we were to raise productivity in services to the level of the three most successful countries in the union, gross domestic product could grow by about 5 percent. what are the responsibilities of the commission and the member states? the commission and the member states should therefore come up with analyses of best practices and motivations for reform. the closest we've gotten is when we evaluated the recovery plans. we should also push for further removal of barriers in the services market. for example, by reducing the number of regulated professions, of which there are some 6 000 in the union. today's restrictions do not protect the consumer from substandard services from other member states, they only protect producers from competition, to the detriment of consumers and the whole union, as well as its members. what producers gain from the safeguard measures chosen is less than what consumers lose. further liberalisation is therefore necessary and desirable for the european union as a whole.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. to end the covid-19 pandemic, we need to provide global immunity through a vaccine. we have a vaccine, and now it's crucial that it's available to people all over the world, in all countries, rich and poor. in one year, the pandemic caused astronomical economic damage, estimated at $11 trillion. the vaccine will stop this pandemic, but it won't stop others from coming. almost every pandemic so far has been caused by zoonotic transmission, that is, transfer from animals to humans. what we need to prevent is the process that's associated with the outbreak of these diseases. these are very clearly linked to the destruction of nature and the exploitation of animal species. there are about 1.7 million previously unknown viruses circulating in wildlife populations. half of them have zoonotic potential. if we continue to deforest, to hunt massively, and to trade wildlife, we are critically increasing the risk of further transmission. investing in nature conservation can prevent these diseases. scientific estimates suggest that effective protection would cost about $30 billion a year. the damage caused by the virus would cover effective measures for 500 years. instead of buying mining licenses and importing deforestation, we need to invest in natural areas for the purpose of not mining them. we need to invest in pristine natural areas and ensure that they remain so. strict nature conservation is both an insurance policy and an investment in these steps. it's really not too soon. it's a life.
in writing. the european commission, in collaboration with member state governments, must do everything possible to ensure that vaccines are available to all citizens and, as a priority, to the elderly, the healthcare workers and people at risk throughout the union. it is inconceivable that despite the announced provision of two billion vaccines, there are delays in the delivery of vaccines to some eu countries, jeopardising the target of vaccinating 70% of the population by the summer. if the european commission, on behalf of the eu, has pre-purchase agreements with several vaccine manufacturers and has over-financed their development and production by hundreds of millions, it cannot be that suppliers like pfizer-biontech are already announcing a drop in agreed supplies. it is also necessary to ensure the control of exports of any vaccine doses from the eu that have been produced here. the vaccination process needs to be accelerated all the more as a new, much more infectious mutation of the coronavirus is already spreading in almost all regions of europe. ideally, citizens should be able to choose between vaccines based on mrna technology and so-called adenovirus vector vaccines. as regards the so-called vaccination card, we must honestly answer the question whether we really want to take away the personal freedoms and rights of people who, for various serious reasons, do not want to be vaccinated or cannot objectively be vaccinated. last but not least, in addition to vaccines, adequate efforts should continue to be made to find effective treatments for covid-19.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the re-arrest of alexei navalny is a sign of the regime's weakness, but also of its helplessness. putin doesn't know how to deal with navalny, except to arrest him, because he can't silence him with arguments. on the contrary, navalny has the better arguments when it comes to good governance, when it comes to democracy and human rights and the development of russia. it is a perfidy for a state that wants to kill an opposition member to sentence him to prison for not complying with the terms of his probation. but he's not keeping it because he's in treatment for this attack that came from this very state. i think we should respond not just by expressing our outrage, but by using the instrument we have created for ourselves, our global human rights sanctions regime, the european magnitsky act. we should, for example, automatically put judges who are devoted to such political judgments on such a list. there's a court that sentenced him to 30 days. these judges and the prosecutors who asked for it are on it. if we do this systematically, but also in other respects, if we do what mr navalny wants, namely to impose sanctions on the entourage of mr putin who supports him, then i think they will realise that they have to pursue a different policy.
madam president, mr high representative, we condemn in the strongest terms the arrest of mr navalny and others. today we call for their instant release. once again, we deeply regret the assassination attempt against him. it was clearly an attempt to silence one of russia’s most outspoken anti-corruption activists. the attacks on the life and freedom of aleksei navalny illustrate the shrinking space for democracy, rule of law, fundamental freedoms and human rights in russia, but they also have an international dimension. the use of prohibited chemical nerve agent novichok constitutes a breach of international law, as it violates the chemical weapons convention. russian authorities should finally put an end to the harassment, intimidation, violence and oppression against its political opponents by ending the prevailing impunity. journalists, human rights defenders and opposition politicians have to be able to conduct their legitimate activities without fear for their lives.
madam president, the unlawful arrest and jailing of aleksei navalny is not just a manifestation of russia’s increasingly authoritarian regime but also of that regime’s increasing fear. fear that their corruption will be exposed or fear that they will lose political power. because, regardless of the outcome, the navalny affair will go down as a huge embarrassment for vladimir putin and his lackeys. they tried to poison navalny only for him to survive thanks to european doctors and now he willingly walks back to a russian jail so that he can inspire a democratic movement in russia. so, obviously, i join the call and this parliament should join the call on the russian government to abide by its international obligations and release navalny. but, as has been said, words are not enough and the eu and its member states should freeze assets and restrict travel for those responsible for the repression in russia. we must do more to counteract the influence of russian money and disinformation and support human rights defenders; but also, now, it is clear that restoring russia’s voting rights in the council of europe, which it now ignores, has been a mistake that needs to be rectified.
madam president, at the end of the debate, i want to say something about the hypocrisy that i have heard here in this debate from mr zanni, the representative of the id extreme right—wing group here. he is criticising the arrest of navalny, but his master, mr salvini, is paid by mr putin, like ms le pen is paid by mr putin. half of the id group have links with russia and putin. and it’s not the end. mr putin is continuing his in—fight against europe. ponder, for example, that this right—wing twitter thing is now using servers – because they are forbidden in the us – where? in russia – russian servers with their extreme right—wing policy. so my plea to you, mr borrell, is we need, as fast as possible, more sanctions, broader sanctions on more russians, on the oligarchs. i think, even if i have never said it before, that even nord stream 2 has to be reconsidered in that respect.
mr. president, the criminal regime in moscow has struck again. after murdering and poisoning countless critics of the regime, navalny was now on the move. he has been unjustly arrested, notably on the charge that he should have reported to a police station in moscow. yeah, that's a little tricky when you're in a hospital recovering from a poisoning attack by your own russian intelligence. mr president, the measure is full. we must now impose sanctions on russia. and that starts with shutting down the nord stream 2 gas pipeline. it is stupid and wrong for europe to become more dependent on russian gas. and then sanctions against putin and his clique. mr. borrell, i look forward to your proposals for a package of sanctions.
i'm not going to tell you. alexei navalny has made it clear to everyone that he will return to his homeland. and he kept his promise to fight politically against the putin regime by participating in a political contest. and the same russian regime that nearly took his life a few months ago, this week, just after his arrival, took him back to a political cell. we need active people in the political arena, not prisoners. a politician must be able to act freely, to seek the votes of voters in the election campaign and to participate in elections. however, these basic principles are systematically suppressed by russia. moscow does not allow free competition, and alexei navalny is the symbol of such competition today. are you so afraid of him, mr. putin, that you have to send alexei navalny from the airport straight to prison? alexei navalny is due for release. russia has long been sabotaging and undermining freedom not only in relation to its own people, it is sabotaging and undermining freedom in relation to us europeans. and it's time to say enough. we're not just angry here today. today we really need to say enough, to confront russia in the same way we have confronted belarus, with sanctions, economically, financially and politically. navalny belongs to freedom, and russia, in its present state, does not belong to europe.
dear vice president, on the eve of the inauguration of the newly elected us president biden, expectations are high, but the challenges are even greater. the trump administration has actively chilled our relationship, and it can't be fixed overnight. it will take a lot of political will and work, especially in dealing with common problems. the report on the state of the common foreign policy also mentioned the western balkans. we need to help the region with vaccines to fight the virus and support the expansion process. a pandemic knows no boundaries. the european union must provide assistance to its immediate neighbours as well as to developing countries. the report on the common security and defence policy welcomes the political agreement on the european defence fund. it will improve our ability to act, develop the competitiveness of our industry, improve research and develop joint capacities. it serves the interests of the union and our ambitions for greater strategic autonomy in these uncertain times. the renewed transatlantic partnership can contribute to the expected strengthening of our common foreign and security policy at global level, as well as to the development of the european union's strategic compass. however, the strategic objectives and policy guidelines have yet to be defined. with 2020 facing new threats, this year must be marked by more vigilance, security and cooperation. cooperation with partners who share our values is also the best response to global challenges, in particular to the systematic violation of human rights worldwide, as the santos report rightly warns.
i'm not going to tell you. first of all, i would like to thank all three rapporteurs very much for their well-prepared reports. at the beginning of last year, we had high expectations for the european union's foreign policy. we expected to really play roles that were related to the goal of the geopolitical commission, the geopolitical union. but the pandemic changed all that in a profound way. we're feeling a lot more intense geopolitical rivalries in our neighborhood as a result of the pandemic. we're fighting a lot more with the russian federation, with china, with turkey in our immediate neighborhood. disinformation has also become a much bigger part of our foreign policy and a problem for a successful european union foreign policy. and last but not least, events in our biggest transatlantic partner show that democracy itself is fragile. we really need to defend our values in foreign policy, and we need to do so very effectively in our immediate neighborhood, where we need to be a powerful player again. this is particularly true of enlargement policy. enlargement has always been the european union's most successful foreign policy and must not become the victim of bilateral and historical disputes. we have to see the whole forest for a few trees. the european union must be able to change its neighbourhood, because it will show that it is strong as a project based on solid values. and these values must also be values that we can promote beyond our borders, in the western balkans, in our neighbourhood.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. we talk about economic cooperation between europe and asia all the time, and especially about its enormous potential, but in practice we still lack the necessary infrastructure connectivity. asia will dominate this world whether we like it or not. but we, as the european union, must seek to develop a strategic link with asia, where it is not just japan, china or korea. as the covid-19 pandemic has also highlighted, and even more so the need to join together to fight climate change, we need a real strategy to enable us to do this with asia. only then will our partners and competitors see the european union as a strong player. we need to invest a lot of effort in connecting physical and digital infrastructure, transportation networks, but also global health and security. but to do more than just talk, we must also invest adequate financial resources. we cannot forget russia or turkey, which we tend to criticize for a number of reasons, because they too want to become important actors in the euro-asian link. we must be prepared to cooperate with them wherever possible, and thus prevent the implementation of various non-transparent and unprofitable projects.
i'm not going to tell you. i consider it a top priority that the resources of the rescue package be used as efficiently as possible. we have one chance to use them wisely. it's not free money. these are resources that we will pay for decades with new european taxes. i would therefore like to call on the portuguese presidency to support the idea of 'value for money' for the resources used. green and digital investments, which are identified as a priority, must also be subject to an efficiency test. will they bring more productivity than other investments? we don't know exactly. will they boost long-term economic growth? we don't know either. public investment must not be an alternative to the necessary structural reforms, but only a complement to them. otherwise, the rescue package will only leave higher taxes and new debt.
the reporter. i'm not going to tell you. the current pandemic crisis has serious economic and social consequences for almost everyone. but the people who paid the most for it, in all member states, were those at risk of poverty. these people don't decide if or when they're going on an exotic vacation. these people are deciding whether they can afford to pay for a hot meal for themselves and their children or to smoke in the house. the impact of the pandemic will be a huge increase in unemployment and a drastic reduction in living standards for millions of europeans. but if the standard of living of people who have already started from the poverty line is falling, we need to act quickly and we need to act effectively to save them. and that is how i see the fead, the fund for european aid to the most deprived. it must be fast, targeted, flexible and tangible. in my own country, slovakia, after the first wave of the pandemic, there was a significant increase in the number of households that freeze in winter, literally because they can't pay for heat. almost eight percent of households in slovakia were in a situation where they could not pay their electricity bills after the first wave of the pandemic. this is a huge increase from 2016, when it was 5 percent of such households. currently, 16 percent of families in slovakia, including those with young children, are trapped in poverty. since the outbreak of covid-19, the situation of more than 20% of citizens of the european union at risk of poverty and social exclusion has deteriorated. the fund for european aid to the most deprived is the instrument that helps people in need to escape poverty and social exclusion. through the fund, states can provide food and basic material assistance, but also non-material assistance to meet the basic needs of those most in need. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the crisis has deepened social disparities and inequalities. member states need to draw money from the european aid fund to help the most vulnerable. the crisis has, of course, also had a negative impact on the ability of partner organisations to deliver aid to those who rely on it. the staff of the partner organisations themselves must be protected today to be able to deliver material aid where it is needed. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the fead and its implementation in the member states, in particular by means of the annual report on the implementation of the fead. i would also like to thank very much the commission, and i would also like to thank very much the council for the absolutely effective cooperation during our joint trilogues, which enabled us to reach an agreement so quickly. the revised regulation will also allow member states to benefit from additional fead resources up to 100%. the amount of additional resources to be reallocated from react-eu to the fead will be decided by the member states and will be based solely on the amount of resources that each country needs to help the most vulnerable population groups affected by the crisis, whether families affected by job loss, single mothers with dependent children, or elderly and sick citizens, or people living in separated and segregated communities such as roma settlements. in doing so, they will have to adhere to the principles of integration and non-discrimination and gender equality, all in accordance with the charter of rights of the european union. the good news for member states is that they can claim 100 per cent of the european money, which means that the fund's aid will be able to be paid without restrictions, without delays and without burdening national budgets. i am really pleased that we have agreed on all these important elements, and i firmly believe that this review will ensure that the aid that is so important at this time and in this crisis reaches all the vulnerable citizens who need it.
i'm not going to tell you. the issue of gender equality is not a political postcard. it affects all of us, women and men alike. i wish that men could speak about women's place in society as naturally, passionately and intensely as women do. we have to improve on this point in the european parliament too. we often discuss the need to strengthen gender equality in relation to the gender pay gap. yes, in every profession, there must be a principle that for equal work, everyone deserves equal pay. and it doesn't matter where in europe she works or whether the work is done by a woman or a man. however, if we look more closely at the central european area, a problem of poverty is as acute and, moreover, as existential as the problem of wages, and is linked to gender inequality. did you know that two thirds of the people over 65 who are materially poor and have difficulty leading a dignified life in slovakia are women? yes, that's right. it is important that we fight for gender equality as loudly in the labour market as we do in the long-term risk that more women than men in europe will end their lives in extreme poverty. the current pandemic will only exacerbate the gender gap. for anyone who's willing to look at reality, the pandemic has shown how much we depend on the work of women, not just in our struggling health care systems, but also at home. the recipes for improving the social status of women have been known for years. schools, kindergartens, or just taking seriously all those nice words we use to say about women when we have women's anniversaries and women's anniversaries. that's when we're full of admiration. so let's translate that admiration into concrete policies. the recovery from the pandemic is a good opportunity.
madam president, i wish you all a happy and healthy 2021. a lot of work is ahead of us, above all, the gender pay and the gender pension gap. these gaps are ranging from 3% to 23% and from 1% to a crazy 43% in the european union. so there’s a lot to do. and in addition, both pay and pension gaps are intrinsically linked to the care gap, mostly women doing all this unpaid care work. what do we do about these gaps? we build bridges. and those bridges should look like binding measures like pay transparency, where we are eagerly waiting the proposal from the commission, minimum wages benefiting mostly women in the low income sectors and care deal for europe, radically rethinking the value of paid and of unpaid work. so let us build those bridges, so that we can finally achieve gender equality in 2030 as planned.
i'm not going to tell you. women are the heroes of pandemics. we stand on nurses and caregivers who are more with the elderly and infirm than with family. to the teachers who save our children's education. women who have become teachers and cooks in addition to their jobs to take care of their families during the lockdown. eventually, their careers suffered or they were forced into prison. women were heroes long before the pandemic. we still tolerate them not being fairly valued. we tolerate them having two jobs, but they're only paid for one. we tolerate our neighbor living with a rapist, or we tolerate women's voices being silenced and their rights suppressed. as if that were not enough, in slovakia, but also in poland, the governments are making the situation of women worse. instead of addressing domestic violence, they're trying to restrict women's reproductive rights. they're threatening istanbul and they're cutting the word "race" from government policies. it's like the witch hunt is back and the hostages are women and their rights. that's enough. gender equality is a traditional european value because we are all equal.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to say that the commission is very pleased with the report and the work that has been done. these are the actions that best explain the new action plan on the circular economy. actions that become even more central in this historic time, where we are facing an unprecedented health pandemic, which confronts us with the need to rebuild our economies, starting with the european union's commitment to become a net-zero emission continent by 2050 at the latest. today, we consume two and a half times the resources that our planet is able to regenerate in a year. we cannot achieve climate neutrality without a profound transformation of our development model from a linear system of design, production and consumption to a fully circular one that respects the limits of our planet. this is why it is important that the european commission has updated its action plan on the circular economy, defining measures and actions to be implemented over the next five years. in the last action plan we focused on the end of life of products, setting ambitious targets for recycling and reducing landfilling, which the commission will have to monitor in relation to their implementation in the states. the aim for the future must now be to have an impact on the first level of the waste hierarchy: the prevention. the new legislation on sustainable products will be a key step in extending sustainability measures to product design and will have to take into account the requirements of durability, repairability, minimum content of recycled material in products. but we also need specific rules for the sectors with the greatest potential for circularity. i am referring in particular to the textile, construction, ict and battery sectors. we have an opportunity today, with next generation eu, to turn the circular economy principles of the green deal into concrete investments and at the same time support a lasting and solid economic recovery because it is environmentally and socially sustainable.
for the renew group. mr president, in slovakia we say that fire is a good servant but a bad master. and that's the way it is with plastics now. we can't imagine our lives without plastic. this microphone is also wrapped in plastic. they're everywhere, and we've contaminated nature and ourselves with them. every week, it's like eating a credit card. plastic has become a bad master. the problem is not just plastic waste. we're still putting toxic chemicals in plastics that are bad for our health. we're making more and more of them, and we're making them from fossil fuels, oil and gas. we're making the climate crisis worse instead of helping to solve it. so we need not only action plans, but i call on the commission to come up with concrete legislative proposals to ensure that we use less plastic, that we actually recycle it, that it is renewable and free of toxic substances. or in other words, we're going to move to a circular economy, because otherwise, the plastics don't serve us, we serve the plastics.
mr president, the deadline for the final submission of the national recovery and resilience plans to the european commission is approaching, but in several member states the national plans have not yet been published. i therefore asked the commission to make these plans public when they were presented to it. the commission replied that it did not intend to do so. i think that the commission should not only publish these plans but also its evaluation. not because it should be a competition between member states for some kind of european cup, but because we want these plans to be good all the same. and also so that countries can inspire each other with good reforms that are return-oriented, and economically return-oriented.
the recovery fund, mr president, is an expression of european solidarity, of mutual support at a time when it is needed most. solidarity is a combination of rights and obligations, and therefore it has conditions. first, there is the duty to spend public money well, to support the economy, to renew it, to make it sustainable. the standards for sustainability are there and will be there, and parliament will help the commission to ensure that they are strictly enforced. secondly, there is the duty not to cheat each other. this may sound strange, but it is being violated by countries like luxembourg and the netherlands: by facilitating tax evasion, which leads to a diversion of aid resources. so let dutch politics not complain about the hole in someone else's hand as long as the richest have the opportunity to spend their tax-free income on the proverbial drink and women, as long as the richest do not contribute honestly to the recovery so badly needed for the domestic and european economy.
mr. chairman, sometimes i get the feeling that many governments see the money from the recovery and resilience plan as a booty they can share based on the election results. as the slovak prime minister says, unfortunately. first of all, it's not just about the money. it is about the reforms that are necessary to tackle the biodiversity and climate crises, and about a just transition to a circular and digital economy. not about spending, but about investing in the future, responsible for the planet and for the people, for the benefit of all, not just our people, as they say in slovakia. for the benefit of young people who bear the brunt of a climate crisis that they cannot, and therefore must not, go into fossil fuels and environmental destruction. the preparation of the recovery plan must involve the public, cities and municipalities, ngos and businesses. not just about pr, but about real discussion. we in the european parliament have an important task to perform, to check. we must and will look to the commission, but also to individual countries, to put their finger on the problem and to act. renewal and resilience must truly be about next generation, green, digital and equitable. this is not a time to share the spoils, but to help people and the planet.
in writing. finally, we have everything ready to launch recovery plans that will allow all eu countries, including slovakia, not only to kickstart the economy damaged by the pandemic, but also to increase its resilience to future crises. this is not some atm machine for money to plug holes in the state budget. it is a tool to rebuild a pandemic-stricken economy through large investments and long-delayed reforms. it should be used to cure the chronic deficiencies of our economy, which are similar in all countries. no investment from this recovery plan may harm the environment, but must contribute to combating climate change and protecting biodiversity. but let us not forget that the measures we are taking must also take us further in building our social model and in promoting social rights and equality, and thus enable us to function as a modern society from which all citizens benefit, and not just a narrow group of elected oligarchs. the approval of these documents by the european parliament is also an alarm for the slovak government to work quickly and with the involvement of the wider professional public and to submit a really high-quality national recovery plan to brussels as soon as possible. it must be complementary to projects traditionally implemented from the european funds. not to use these six billion euros in a smart way, which will make slovakia a modern and healthy society, would be a punishable sin.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. once again, we are witnessing a debate about the allegedly broken rule of law in poland. once again, the european parliament, which so often calls for respect for the rule of law, is de facto breaking that rule of law, because the protection of life and the relevant regulations are a matter for the member states. it was not enough for you to hear the statement made by the european commission, commissioner dalli, two months ago, when she said here in parliament that the question of abortion was a matter for the member states. but no, you want to fuel the political dispute in poland. they want women to take to the streets in times of pandemic, in times when we are fighting for the lives of our citizens. you are de facto concerned that the disputes in poland are fading, which is why this debate is taking place today. ladies and gentlemen! the court examined the constitutionality of the law, a constitution signed by a leftist president and adopted under a leftist government. the previous presidents of the constitutional tribunal have clearly stated that the tribunal could not rule otherwise, but this does not bother you. the state is desperate to fuel the ideological conflict. not so long ago, you came to parliament wearing t-shirts with the words "constitution" on them, calling on the polish government to respect the constitution, which you said it was violating. today you are unhappy that the court rules in accordance with the constitution. i'm tired of talking about polish women, talking about the polish government. poland has one of the smallest wage gaps. and it is in poland that a regulation is being prepared to recognize the wage gap as one of the forms of mobbing. come to your senses! speak up for the civilization of life!
madam president, we are having this discussion in this house today because we are concerned about the rule of law, credible justice and fundamental rights in europe. polish justice is european justice, and as such it must follow common european principles and commitments that all european citizens’ rights are fully respected and protected. unfortunately, this is not the case in poland today. last october, the polish constitutional court, the polish constitutional tribunal, made an important decision with consequences for the lives of many polish and european citizens. the decision on abortion was delivered by judges fully dependent on politicians from the governing majority. let us remember that three members of the current constitutional tribunal were appointed in violation of the polish constitution. and this decision has taken place in the context of a broader ongoing struggle for independent justice in poland. dear colleagues, reliable institutions matter and are crucial for credible rule of law and judiciary. important decisions such as on abortion must be taken through mechanisms that enjoy the trust of the people, but 78% of poles opposed the constitutional tribunal’s decision, and many have taken repeatedly to the streets to protest it. women’s rights are human rights and they deserve proper treatment, not political shortcuts. what kind of a democratic government sends masses of its citizens to protest in the streets? i therefore stand here in solidarity with those who are calling for the return of justice, rule of law and human dignity in central europe.
madam president, it is very hard, actually, to find a policy in today’s europe which is so harmful to so many people while at the same time being such an affront to the rule of law. the de facto ban on abortions in poland actually does both because, on procedure, it has been put in place by a constitutional court whose composition is illegitimate after the ruling government interfered with its independence, and the lack of judicial independence is also made clear from the fact that the government delayed the publication of the ruling for its own convenience. on substance, of course, the ruling, the de facto ban, will heap suffering on hundreds of polish women every year. abortions will continue, they will just be less safe. already before the ban, there were some 80 000 to 200 000 abortions being carried out legally, and this number will grow, which is why, rightly, the polish people have taken to the streets to protest against this infringement of their rights and we should stand with them.
madam president, i thank mr borrell for being here with us to take stock of what might well have been one of the most ill—advised foreign policy trips in the eu’s recent history. mr borrell, i share your view that it is important to talk to everyone, including and especially our adversaries or dictators, but without any real leverage — such as a credible threat of new sanctions or suspension of nord stream 2, this particular diplomatic visit was never going to advance european interests, and many of us had warned you of that beforehand. so unfortunately, the trip will not be remembered as a show of support to jailed russian protesters, but it will be remembered as a moment where the eu’s credibility was weakened, particularly because of the performance of sergei lavrov at the press conference. the best we can hope for now, is that it will also be remembered as a wake—up call that finally prompted eu member states and yourself to adopt a more realistic and principled russian foreign policy and to move toward sanctions finally.
madam president, the role of the high representative is to interact and engage with his counterparts from other countries, even in difficult times and on problematic topics. but this visit to moscow had an extremely bad timing. despite eu calls on russia to refrain from arresting opposition leader navalny and to stop the harassment of demonstrators, russia does exactly the opposite and the eu is advised to keep its mouth shut. by expelling eu diplomats on the same day as the visit and by publicly stating that the eu is not a reliable partner, russia has confirmed once again that it does not wish to mend the relations with the eu and the eu must build on this knowledge. the level of naivety towards russia in europe should be kept low. russia has made its geopolitical choices for now. hopefully the eu will draw quick conclusions about what happened: among others, the inclusion of human rights violators on the sanctions list and the suspension of nord stream 2, which is contrary to european energy security policy.
madam president, high representative, as a former diplomat, i deeply regret the expulsion of three european diplomats by the russian federation. this decision is completely unfounded. why do we have a vienna convention on diplomatic relations? a diplomat is entitled to assess the developments in the receiving state and to report to the government of the sending state. when diplomats are hindered by a state from objectively observing a democratic protest, profound questions can be posed on the functioning of that state, on the compliance with the rule of law, on the respect for democracy and human rights. our relations with russia are at a low point. a european strategic approach is more than necessary. we must prevent further deterioration, show readiness to respond with sanctions, but also a willingness to rebuild ways towards renewed dialogue. please let diplomacy do its job, because we know what happens when diplomacy ends.
madam president, mr borrell, let what has happened serve as a guide for future dialogues with regimes such as venezuela, cuba, turkey or iran. the obsession of all of them, after all, is to destroy our democratic european system of principles and values. history repeats itself, a colleague of mine said: fascisms and communisms, extreme left and right pulling - and financed by our regimes - here in russia today. there is the vice-president of the government of spain, of my own country, pablo iglesias, financed in the past by venezuela and iran and now acting as a spokesman for the putin regime in its daily task of undermining the prestige of spain and eroding the democratic system that so much effort, sweat and tears cost us. and in the spanish case, of course, not a step backwards in the face of russian interference supporting racist and exclusionary nationalisms in spain and catalonia. mr borrell, we must sit down with the democratic opposition in russia and support them. and to do that, we must resort to the only weapon these gangsters understand: sanctions now. i have heard many colleagues here talk about mr borrell's resignation, but i have heard very little about the sanctions, which are a thousand times more effective. it is no longer necessary to hide behind the european commission. the next european council must make it clear who is in favour and where the unanimity is when it comes to imposing sanctions on russia. and if they are not, they should say so publicly and face the consequences of european democratic public opinion. the time for soft diplomacy is over. it is time for european political leadership, which, together with the new american administration, has the duty to defend our democracies and freedoms.
madam president, mr borrell, a popular russian saying that was heard in moscow this weekend is, in essence, 'whoever is in too much of a hurry is likely to be laughed at'. and unfortunately, it's hard to think of anything else today. the fiasco was announced everywhere, including by us, and the trap of putin and lavrov was cleverly orchestrated. we are still in favour of dialogue, of course. but your visit to moscow did not advance the cause of alexei navalny, nor the cause of human rights in russia. you said, "i listened to you religiously", wanting to address the russians, and you're right, it's essential. that's the whole point of tomorrow. talking to the russians, talking to these young people, thousands of them in the streets and who, deep down, only know putin in power. but i don't see how that mess speaks to them today. one last thing, even though i'm playing devil's advocate in this debate. it is clear that you were caught between the hammer and the anvil, between our ambition, your ambition certainly, and the frivolity of the member states. all this to say that it is the function of high representative which must be reinvented by the conference on the future of europe.
madam president, high representative, it is with regret and a sense of shame that i stand here today speaking of last week’s events. unfortunately, mr borrell, your visit to russia has demonstrated that reaching out to moscow under the current circumstances is not only futile, it is dangerous. the last thing we need to hear from a european politician speaking in moscow today is a criticism of our ally in washington. when i see the frustration of the belarussian and russian people and the unstoppable force of lukashenko and putin’s regimes, i expect from the representative of european diplomacy clear messages about sanctions, political prisoners, disinformation, russia’s dirty money, and its attempts to undermine the european way of life. i want to convey my sincere support to those fighting for democracy and fundamental rights in the streets of minsk, moscow and other cities and towns across belarus and russia. russia is a regime that kills and jails its political opponents. the european union cannot engage with it in a manner of business as usual. and, by the way, our messages to russia also have foreign policy implications for actions in our neighbourhood and in the western balkans. believe me, the fight for the european hearts and minds of our neighbours will be easier with clear red lines towards moscow. i wish sincerely that we did not need to have this debate today for europe’s biggest opponent in our relations with russia sits in moscow. let us not give him any more comfort. let’s stand up to russia’s dark side, united, and in clear defence of europe’s values and interests.
madam president, the contracts that the commission has concluded with the vaccine suppliers should have been made public long ago, as it has been for all government contracts in slovakia for a decade, and nothing terrible has happened. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. contracts should always be made public, so it's in the interest of the citizen and the public. the treaties could also include a clause on the order in which the union would receive vaccines and adequate sanctions for failure to meet the agreed conditions. i believe that in the future, the european union will be more transparent in any procurement, and this will certainly translate into better results.
madam president, today we are having a difficult but very necessary debate - why is the european union lagging behind in vaccination? yet it would be far worse for the union to debate why some of the member states have gotten all the vaccines while the smaller and poorer ones have got nothing. which is why i still think that the joint vaccine procurement was a good idea. but clearly, she could have had a better time. where's it stuck? if the problem is the human factor, it's easy to solve. but if the problem is caused by the limitations of the european union's structure, then it requires systemic solutions. the question must be asked whether the commission is sufficiently equipped with the expertise and powers to manage procurement? has the decision-making system in the council contributed to the delay? should the ema have approved the vaccine sooner? the last question has a clear answer -- when you vaccinate half a billion people, with vaccines that are developed in record time, bottlenecks and gambling are not an option. a serious defect in any of the approved vaccines would have catastrophic consequences, not only for the current situation, but for the general public's trust in science, vaccination and democracy. in conclusion, i believe there is time to correct the situation and speed up the vaccination. but if, in the fall, the european union were to lock down again because of delays, and the rest of the developed world did not, the consequences could be disastrous.
madam president, the eu’s vaccination strategy is a tale of two starkly different halves. i mean on the one hand it is a testament to the importance of the european union that we have successfully managed to avoid a bidding war between member states. a european battle for vaccines would have had catastrophic consequences, especially for smaller member states like mine, slovakia. on the other hand, it is now quite obvious that the commission has committed a number of serious mistakes in negotiating the contract and managing the supply of vaccines. and pondering an export ban to northern ireland, whatever the technical details, has been a pr disaster that the uk government is now trying to exploit to blame all brexit problems on the eu. i really hope that the commission will learn from these mistakes because the coming weeks and months, and whether we are able to step up production, will be a make—or—break moment for citizens’ trust in the european union.
madam president, i am still in favour of finding better targeted treatments for covid-19, as well as using existing medicines if they have been shown to be at least somewhat effective. but prevention is better than cure, of course, and it's clear that vaccination, while not a miracle cure for a pandemic, is the most effective way to at least contain this dramatic situation, with its hundreds of thousands of deaths and economic crisis. the common european approach to vaccine procurement, which i advocate, was aimed at ensuring rapid and fair distribution to all member states. but the long-running slippage in the supply of the agreed vaccines is causing great frustration among our citizens. we must therefore allow the production of vaccines in all member states that can provide it. we need to get the producers to give up their patents, because they've been getting research and development money from our taxpayers, because otherwise i'm going to explain to our constituents that despite the millions invested in various pharma-firms, they don't agree to relocate production.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, social media have increased opportunities to participate in public life and political debate, facilitating access to information and freedom of expression. but we are still not adequately protected from the proliferation of fake news, discriminatory content, incitement to hatred and violence. we have seen how disinformation campaigns and foreign interference can find fertile ground to influence public opinion, to polarize societies, to undermine democratic processes. with the action plan for democracy and the proposals on digital services and markets, we expect significant action to be taken to regulate the opaque practices of micro-targeting and to achieve greater transparency on the functioning of algorithms in the procedures for monitoring and moderating online content. at the same time, however, it is essential to mitigate the risk of conflict with freedom of opinion arising from decisions taken on the basis of discretionary powers of an oligarchy of private commercial entities, rather than on the basis of rules that provide greater guarantees of freedom and impartiality.
madam president, madam secretary of state, madam commissioner, the public sphere and the media sphere have changed radically. from a world in which we had mediators and mediations (in politics, parliaments, parties, institutions; in the social sphere, the press, television, radio), we have suddenly passed through social networks to the illusion of direct democracy. the mediators have fallen, and now on social media, everyone thinks they can abolish the media and traditional media. everyone thinks that through direct participation they can even replace parliaments. there is no shortage of countries where the abolition of parliaments is decreed or advocated. no more mediators. only direct participation, through social networks, with a vote that even in laws and decisions could be daily through digital tools. the problem is that we suddenly realize that behind social networks and the companies that own them, there is a mediator, a hidden mediator, a secret mediator, who is the algorithm, who is the controller, who is the owner of social networks, and therefore freedom of expression is in danger. it is in danger of outside interference, it is in danger of hidden mediation, it is in danger of lack of democratic regulation. and that's why we can't be in the hands of social media. we have to take them into our own hands. that is the challenge we are debating here today.
madam president, although we are now one year into the pandemic, facebook only decided this week to take down posts claiming vaccines cause autism. it took them one year to act against fake news. and a study released this week reveals that 83% of young people have already been confronted with fake news on social media and 25% of them cannot distinguish between fake news and real news. and this is, in my eyes, a threat. for years, and i think i am not exaggerating when i say social media platforms and trump, for example, have benefited from each other. only after trump’s election defeat and him calling on his supporters to storm the capitol did they decide to ban him. that means that facebook, youtube and twitter took more than four years to ban him. and while i think it was right to ban mr trump from social media platforms, i would say that private companies should never act without reference to the law, and as the european union this is the way we have to go.
madam president, i think it’s now clear that most social media have wildly outgrown their founders’ expectations and their impact on society is felt globally and, of course, in each individual country. with such great power must come greater responsibility, because today there is very little incentive for social media corporations to ensure that their products are not used as vehicles for the mass spread of hate or lies or disinformation. in slovakia, last year, journalists tracked 56 death threats posted publicly on facebook, and actually had to call facebook’s pr department before the death threats were taken down. so it was because of the action of journalists that the threats actually disappeared. this is illustrative of a much bigger problem, which is that the social media corporations are unable or unwilling to ensure that their content not only meets ethical standards, but actually complies with the legislation and the laws of the country in which they operate. so, when we think about the future, the regulation must not be virtual, but real.
madam president, madam minister, madam commissioner, social media platforms such as facebook and twitter have arrogated to themselves the exorbitant power to regulate freedom of expression on the internet. they use it to enforce the law of conformity by ruthlessly censoring all ideas that offend, shock or worry, in violation of the handyside ruling of the european court of human rights which expressly protects them. their dominance has become such that they have even cut off the accounts of the american president, who is considered the most powerful man in the world. this oppression and censorship has lasted too long. the european states and the european union, which is nothing but their delegate, must take back control of the situation. in accordance with the european parliament resolution of 20 october 2020, i call for the strengthening of public scrutiny on these platforms in order to guarantee freedom of expression. i also ask that any decision to remove illegal content be taken as a last resort only by an independent national judiciary and not by a commercial entity.
madam president, please show some mercy. please save us some hypocrisy. please spare us some crocodile tears on the freedom of speech. to most europeans with a little common sense, one thing is crystal clear: this house does not care about free speech. we did not see a reaction from the european parliament when tech giants removed president trump from their networks in january. we did not see a reaction when parler was removed from all major app stores. we did not see a reaction when vox activists were brutally attacked in barcelona last weekend. yes, there is pure censorship now in europe: in spain, against the only right-wing, traditional, national, conservative political party – vox. this is provided by twitter, for example. we didn’t see a reaction when this house promoted fake news about so-called ‘lgbti—free zones’ in poland. on the contrary, this european parliament promoted such false information. the fact of the matter is that this house does not permit opposing views which attack the liberal consensus. the new politburo will not tolerate diverging opinions which don’t accept the agenda of the day. the liberal establishment does not accept views against illegal migration, against ngos helping human trafficking in the mediterranean sea, against the lgbti ideology and propaganda, or against federalism. the ussr had a one-party system. this european parliament has a multi-party system, where political parties don’t really matter. nothing. the majority of this house takes the same stance on the issues i mentioned. but do not worry, please. freedom will always find a way, and liberty will always win. you cannot shut us down and we will not be silenced.
madam president, online media platforms have become some of the most powerful private social actors in history. the situation is unprecedented. in the past, their lack of action has repeatedly led to real world violence and recently they’ve suddenly silenced a democratically—elected president. the bottom line is that the freedom of speech of democratically—elected representatives, just like the uncontrolled spread of manipulative disinformation, cannot be just a private matter for global companies. decisions on these issues need democratic scrutiny and regulatory oversight. it is therefore one of the key regulatory challenges of our era to draft a new set of public rules to respond to the power and potential dangers of social media. we need more ambition than is currently envisaged in the recently proposed digital services act, especially when it comes to the responsibility and transparency of online platforms in the fight against hoaxes. the dsa is a much—needed step in the right direction, but we must do more to slow down the pervasive spread of manipulative and harmful content online. we will never be able to put an end to all deceiving lies, but we are surely able to give truth, facts, credible science and democracy a fighting chance in a digital space. i am convinced that europe and this house must lead these efforts on behalf of all european citizens, who deserve equal protection online across all member states.
madam president, the spread of hoaxes during the coronavirus crisis has had real consequences for the health and lives of people across europe. many people have believed the lies on social media that covid-19 is just a flu. sadly, many of them died. the coronavirus crisis has shown how weak we are in the fight against lies and disinformation, as well as in the fight against hatred, extremism, aggression, slander and attacks. a few weeks ago, we saw the former president of the united states mobilize the fanatics through social media. it's a good thing they finally froze his account. while many of us agree with this, we cannot leave such decisions in the hands of media owners whose primary goal is to make money. let's face it, the content of social media is completely out of our control. although it doesn't sound good, i'm convinced that lies and hoax about covid-19 have caused many deaths in europe. i am in no way in favor of regulating the freedom of social media. but we must prevent the spread of lies, hatred, extremism and disinformation.
madam president, today's prospectus, which provides investors with information about the company they're about to invest in, is hundreds of pages long. it is complicated and costs the issuer approximately one million euros. i therefore support the introduction of a new, cheaper recovery prospectus, which was designed as a temporary simplification in response to covid. the investor protection is not significantly affected and, at a maximum of 30 pages, the commission estimates that it will save companies 50% of the costs. however, i regret that the final text did not improve the indicators for the commission's evaluation report on the prospectus for the coming year. the eu's share of the global market is declining, with european capital markets far from reaching their full potential. we will therefore need relevant data to give us a true picture of the situation in order to improve the regulation in the future.
madam president, ostrovets nuclear power plant didn’t pass the eu stress test, but it’s fully functioning as we are speaking. ostrovets lies about 20 kilometres from the lithuanian border. such proximity can also be found in other member states, such as nuclear power plants in my country, slovakia, which are located only some dozens of kilometres from hungary or austria – but they have been upgraded to the highest possible safety standards. in this case, deep concerns have been expressed in member states like poland or lithuania, which we should not only understand but support. even if i am not against electricity produced by nuclear plants, nuclear safety should be a key priority, both within and beyond external borders. even if we cannot forget about the risk related to the deepening of energy poverty, especially in the post—pandemic recovery, we can’t accept lowered safety nuclear standards. we need stronger and more effective cooperation with the current regulatory authority in belarus to ensure that belarusian operators do not only apply a selective application of standards. we have to call on the belarusian authorities to have more transparency and respect for international nuclear and environmental safety standards.
madam president, 30 years following gaining independence, kazakhstan’s society has been changing a lot. the last positive signal announced was its intention to abolish the death penalty for all crimes. however, the ongoing crackdown on local human rights groups and the persecution of the human rights activists has provoked serious concerns as to whether kazakhstan’s leadership is genuinely interested in improving its human rights record. according to human rights groups, coordinated actions and unlawful acts are limiting fundamental rights and freedoms. we also have to be very cautious that the context of the covid-19 pandemic is not used as a pretext for further escalation of the situation. such doubts are damaging kazakhstan’s international reputation and the eu needs to indicate this to kazakhstan’s authorities clearly, as we have a joint partnership agreement with this central asian country. the eu should act consistently to weather any ongoing and long-standing threats towards citizens’ fundamental rights, both within and beyond our external borders, and kazakhstan cannot be an exception.
madam president, a vaccine is certainly the most effective means at this time to bring the coronavirus pandemic and its variants under real control and to allow our society to reopen, and especially to prevent hundreds of thousands more deaths. we all agree that in addition to vaccination and finding an effective treatment, the only possible means to protect yourself from the coronavirus is social distancing, disinfection, and especially wearing effective protective face masks, the best of which are respirators. other protective masks, especially clear masks, have not been authorised in all countries so far. but this has led to another discrimination, almost exclusion, that we've seen happening, of hearing-impaired people, who are also falling into severe depression from lack of communication. because these people need to be seen to read lips, wearing a clear mask is very important. we must therefore do everything we can at european union level to eliminate this discrimination as soon as possible and to enable these people, who are already affected by the corona pandemic, to return to normal life. the european commission must support the development, and also the production and, ultimately, the fair distribution of these transparent masks in all the countries of the union. of course, these masks have to provide adequate protection against the virus not only for the people who wear them on their faces, but also for the people they're addressing, and so the homologation is a real, i would say, protective and safeguarding element so that all these people can be protected from this nasty virus.
mr. speaker, today we commemorate the struggle of women for justice and equality. this tool is also about justice, carbon justice. we need to manage the climate crisis and take care of our own survival. we need to radically reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but not all countries are doing enough. we needed a carbon justice tool yesterday. the current system of free allocation of emissions needs to be fundamentally changed, as the european court of auditors has also stated. but some big polluters would like to have it all, from free emissions to a carbon tax on imports. but that would not be fair to our trading partners, and this tool is supposed to be fair to companies, people and the planet. at the same time, they must be fair to developing countries, which are the most affected by the climate crisis. the proceeds of this instrument must not be kept for ourselves. we certainly need them to finance climate action, to finance renewal as our own resources, but we also need to use them to address the climate crisis in developing countries. because like women, the climate needs equality and justice.
madam president, please accept my five signals on this subject. first, let us not confuse tax cooperation with tax harmonisation. secondly, tax competition is good, it is positive for the competitiveness of the european union and for economic growth. third, tax evasion must be curbed. since they distort fair competition between firms in the single market. fourth, member states should improve the quality and accuracy of the tax information they exchange with each other to make it more practical for other member states to use. without sufficient data quality, their use for reducing tax evasion will not be effective either. and fifth, this is precisely where the commission should be more proactive in the coordination process of information exchange.
madam president, today the european parliament will decide whether to continue the investment support programme known as the juncker fund. the efficiency margins and insufficient transparency of the juncker fund have been criticised by the european court of auditors in the past. i am afraid that even now we are not getting much more out of every euro invested by the citizens. the usefulness of the fund will be assessed, for example, by the number of undertakings supported. it's like when you invest in a highway, you don't measure the results by the number of miles built, but by the number of companies that got the money. i therefore believe that much work still needs to be done to increase efficiency and transparency. clearly, the money helps, but it needs to be delivered efficiently and transparently.
in writing. covid-19 has revealed the eu's unpreparedness and inability to respond to this type of health pandemic. health must be the absolute priority, and i am therefore pleased that it was the pato rlament that gave the decisive impetus to create a more functional, effective and, above all, resilient health programme. the new program will unfortunately have to settle for a much lower budget than many of us would like. when you think of the vastly greater sums we spend in the member states on armaments. but even with our pressure, the eu budget will go to health ten times more than it has been so far, which is a good start and will allow us to be better prepared for the health threats that are coming and to be more autonomous from outside players. the correct use of the programme should enable us to create the necessary stocks of medicines, vaccines, but also of medical protective equipment and, in particular, sufficient health workers, not only doctors but also nurses and nurses. i am pleased that a fifth of the budget will go to the prevention of diseases of civilization, such as cardiovascular diseases, which cause about half of all deaths in europe. money will also have to go to education and information to help people understand how their lifestyle can prevent serious diseases of civilization, not just tobacco but also, for example, sugar and unhealthy fats.
madam president! the events in georgia rightly worry us, as they are yet another symptom of the growing political destabilization of the caucasus, which threatens to make the region more dependent on moscow. the union, as a mediator and an honest broker, should help to overcome this conflict, but this political crisis is not only the result of an internal dispute between the authorities and the opposition, it is also the result of the unfulfilled hopes of the georgians, my dear colleagues, for the integration of their country into euro-atlantic structures, the union and nato. this is the result of our european inconsistent policy towards georgia the awakening and then suppression of hopes for breaking out of the russian sphere of influence and for membership in euro-atlantic structures. it is time to start realizing these hopes, this is the best, but not the easiest way to reconcile... (speaker's speech was interrupted due to an electrical fault).
the awakening and then the suppression of the hope of breaking out of the russian sphere of influence and of membership in euro-atlantic structures - that is our mistake, colleagues. it is time for us to begin to realize these hopes, the hopes of the georgians. it is also the best, though not the easiest, way to defuse internal conflicts and to stabilise georgia.
we now continue our discussion on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the current political situation in georgia (2021/2575 ((rsp))
madam president! i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! georgia is one of the most important partners of the european union. our relationship must be based on mutual trust and understanding. the crisis we have been witnessing for the past few months is a cause for concern because we are aware that building a lasting democratic system is a delicate process that requires the cooperation of all political parties and forces. it is very easy for one hasty decision to ruin what has been achieved so far. we don't want to criticize our friends or lecture them, but we can't pretend that nothing's going on either. many of the member states have had similar experiences and have been through similar crises. we are ready to share our knowledge and support democratic dialogue between the government and the opposition. georgians are unambiguously in favour of a modern and democratic state that is an integral part of the western world. the political class and party leaders in tbilisi should remember this and i think, after talking to them, they do. good luck with that.
madam president, i am deeply concerned with the ongoing situation in georgia and i would like to join the calls for the de—escalation of tensions. leaders across the political spectrum in georgia must find european solutions for the current crisis, solutions based on democratic standards, respect for dialogue between political opponents and the ability to compromise for the good of the georgian people. i appreciate the immediate european reaction to mediate in the current crisis and, while i welcome the efforts by president michel and the incoming personal envoy, christian danielson, i would like to emphasise that the european parliament can also play a constructive role in the mediation process. we, as members of this house, have parliamentary instruments, such as the jean monnet dialogue, and should stand ready to do our utmost to help georgia out of this crisis, not only by debating in brussels, but also on the ground in tbilisi. the bottom line is that pro—european and democratic georgia must prevail and we must also do everything in order to stop russia from using this crisis to meddle in the geopolitics of the southern caucasus.
madam president, the european semester is an important mechanism for coordinating the budgetary and economic policies of the member states. the general escape clause of the stability and growth pact has been activated for one year and according to the commission will be active at least until the end of next year. some interpret this decision as a failure of fiscal rules to adapt to the reality of new high debts. but the rules did not fail, in my view, it was the long-term failure to enforce and enforce the rules that failed. member states that did their homework in good times, made structural reforms and consolidated public finances now have reserves to help their economies. without reforms and without sufficient consolidation, member states also lacked the fiscal reserves linked to the european rescue packages. if the reserves of the contending states were distributed equally among all the states, it could happen that in good times they would stop making them - the contending states - and in the next crisis there would simply be nothing to redistribute. let's remember that socialism ended because there was no one left to take.
in writing. – we are happy that our commissioner launched the action plan, and we welcome the principles that stand for it. our family has long stood and pushed for very ambitious yet necessary measures regarding for example the situation of the mobile or cross-border workers in eu. the pandemic unfortunately shows how vulnerable and precarious these workers can be. let me remind you the case of romanian workers sent in unsafe ways by the liberal government last summer to do seasonal work in germany. we need to ensure a minimum rights directive for these workers, and to ensure that they know about their rights. people have often very little knowledge of their rights. i strongly believe that we should propose an information instrument at their departure so that they can easily understand why they should not accept precarious working conditions. we cannot go below our agreed ambitions on the just transition. we need to ensure that the social pillar is in line with this change of society and that there are enough actions to implement it properly so that nobody is left behind. the member states should provide for an actual plan for the workers and the commission should assist on that.
in writing. if there were any doubts about the ability of a good presidency of the council of the european union to make a difference, the presentation of the proposal for the action plan for the implementation of the european pillar of social rights dispels them in an exemplary way. the formulation of this plan was accelerated by the portuguese presidency's convening of a social summit in porto in may. i would also like to stress the involvement of the european commission in this process, which is in line with a central political demand of the european parliament, and in particular of the socialist and democratic group. the action plan is a starting point for a debate which will lead to its adoption at the social summit, reinforced by a joint declaration by the commission, the member states' governments and the european parliament, reinforcing the commitment to its objectives. it is essential that the plan gives a strong impetus to the creation and protection of fair and decent employment, the qualification of people and poverty reduction, inspiring the strengthening of the social and inclusive dimension of the european union's recovery, resilience and modernisation process, in conjunction with the implementation of other strategic priorities such as the green and digital transition.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome prime minister antonio costa and president ursula von der leyen, who are here in this chamber for this ceremony, which is a special day for european democracy. today we are signing the joint declaration in which our three institutions commit themselves to launching the conference on the future of europe on 9 may. i should like to thank mr costa for his personal involvement in the negotiations which led to an agreement between parliament, the commission and the council. finally, colleagues, we are off. the conference on the future of europe will be a unique opportunity for all european citizens and civil society to shape our future. we need to open up this construction site and in this process we want to put citizens and civil society at the centre, but also national parliaments, regions, local actors, the social partners, academia, young people. this conference is intended to be a new forum for debate, in which european citizens will have a special place, since they are the first to be concerned about the future of the european project. by putting european citizens at the centre of this process, consulting them and involving them in the debates throughout the conference, they will have the opportunity to address the issues that are important to them, and we are committed to listening to their expectations, concerns and ideas. that's why this conference is going to be a groundbreaking event, that's why it can be a game changer. the pandemic is hitting our citizens hard: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. it has affected our economies, our schools, our jobs. in the last year, all europeans have seen their daily lives upset. europe is facing a very difficult and dramatic moment, but the solidarity which it embodies and wants to embody can only be the only answer to this crisis. the union will be at the heart of the economic and social recovery, as it will continue to be at the heart of the vaccination strategy: the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act in a democratic way. in this context, it is essential to continue to give europe the right tools to respond to these expectations, to this demand for solidarity, to prepare it and to prepare it for the challenge ahead. that is why the conference must be a moment of reflection to learn lessons from this crisis, but also to strengthen our democracy. if europe is to be able to tackle global issues and adapt to a changing world, it will need to equip itself with the means to be more effective, more democratic, more flexible and more resilient. democracy is fragile, as the events of last january in washington have shown us, and because it works it must be defended: the european union is committed to protecting the common good and ensuring the participation, transparency and involvement of citizens in democratic life, and to fostering the participation of our society. it is urgent to renew our democratic pact, renewing the link with our society. a genuine european public space is emerging, as we have seen more than ever in the adversities of this year: the crisis has revealed a genuine europeanisation of public opinion, the conviction of our unity and the awareness of a common destiny are now shared by the majority of european citizens and decision-makers, and they feed off each other. we must now lay the foundations for a new european social contract and strengthen europe so that it no longer suffers the emergence of future crises, but is equipped with the strategic tools and capacity to be more resilient. "listen, discuss and change europe together": the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but above all, we are firmly committed today to ensuring that the recommendations and conclusions of the conference are followed up: it is essential that this exercise should lead to concrete action, legislative changes, treaty changes, if this is desired and desired. we are committed to breaking down taboos and to ensuring that the results can offer a real vision of our european project. our credibility as representatives of the institutions, as representatives of the citizens, is at stake. our future and the future of our democracy is at stake. we now have the opportunity to rediscover the soul of the european project and make it live in the present. we therefore invite all european citizens to take part in the conference and to build the europe of tomorrow so that it can truly become 'their europe'.
acting president of the council. mr president of the european parliament, madam president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, when all over europe we are facing a pandemic that has generated the greatest economic and social crisis since the second world war, when in our hospitals health professionals are struggling to save lives, when we are in a race against the clock for vaccination, when millions of workers are losing their jobs and thousands of businesses are facing the risk of bankruptcy, when uncertainty, anxiety and fear mark our collective present, the convening of this conference on the future of europe is a message of confidence and hope for the future that we are sending to all europeans. the confidence that we will beat the pandemic and get through the crisis. the hope that together we will build a future europe, one that is fair, green and digital. we are therefore glad that we were able to overcome the impasse which had paralysed us. and i want to thank everyone here in the european parliament, in the commission, in the council, who has worked to make this agreement possible. we know that we do not all have the same vision of the future europe or of the future of europe, but that is precisely why the conference on the future of europe is a decisive moment for us to be able to discuss, without taboos but with a straight face, the diversity of our visions. only then can we overcome our divisions and recover what unites us and strengthen what unites us, as has always happened over the almost 64 years since the signing of the treaty of rome. and the time for that discussion is now, because we need to prepare now so that when we beat the pandemic, we're ready and we don't waste a second building the future. the union needs to be strengthened by the strength of its citizens. so this cannot be a conference of institutions about institutions. it must be a conference of european citizens on what they want and how they want the future of our union. a conference on the political issues that really concern europeans. in addition to the variations in the economic situation - health today, of course, public debt ten years ago - the eurobarometer gives us a very clear picture of the issues that continue to worry our fellow citizens the most and that require our response: economic issues and unemployment, in particular climate change, migration, terrorism. we have a strategic agenda for the future, uniting the european institutions around a common vision, a europe stronger in protecting citizens and freedoms, with a dynamic, green, fair and social economic base, and able to promote european interests and values on the world stage. but we need europeans to embrace this design and feel it as their own, because they are the final recipients. that's why this conference is so important. because it will allow us to bring europeans into the public sphere, and it is important that european citizens can have a space where they can discuss their aspirations and expectations with their representatives, so that public policies can provide concrete answers to the citizens' everyday needs. so that no citizen feels left behind. we can't waste any more time. it's time to deliver. it's time to start building our future together. (applause from the left)
president of the commission. – mr president, we all have our own dreams when we think about the future of europe. for me, this would be a europe that is leading the world in a green and digital transition. a europe that embraces the full creativity and diversity of all of its citizens and leaves no one behind. a europe that is able to fight recurrent pandemics and protect its citizens. a europe whose democracies are resilient against fake news and the distorting effects of social media. a europe that is a strong voice for freedom and reason in a world where autocrats challenge our way of life. this, and much more, is my dream for europe. one out of 450 million dreams. today we want to hear about the europe our citizens are dreaming of. we want people to take the lead on issues that matter to them and affect their everyday life. today we signed our joint declaration on the conference on the future of europe. some may ask, ‘why now, in the middle of a pandemic, a crisis?’ my answer is that it is exactly in a time of crisis that we see where europe works for people and where we have to get better. the past months have shown that europe can achieve if it has the competences and the necessary means to act. take next generation eu and our european budget: eur 1.8 trillion to build forward better. an unprecedented investment to come out of this crisis together: more sustainable, more digital, fairer and more resilient. stronger than ever. but during this pandemic we have also seen difficulties. where europe’s competences are weak. only gradually did solidarity and support overcome closed borders. it took too much time until there was a consensus on how to better prepare for the next round in the fight against the virus and its future variants. until everyone understood that going it alone was not an option. let me be very clear: this conference on the future of europe is not just another conference for what some call the ‘brussels bubble’. this conference has to go beyond brussels, has to go beyond national capitals, because for this conference to succeed, we want to reach what some call the ‘silent majority’. we want to hear from european citizens in their full diversity: young and old, city dwellers and rural residents. from erasmus students to those who took to the streets in the pulse of europe demonstrations. as well as from those who have their doubts about whether creating an ever—closer union is the right road to take. we want to hear from all! because it is as true today as it was in the days of robert schuman, one of our founding fathers, that when it comes to the future of europe, no effort is too much. no dream is too bold.
the debate on the council and commission statements on the government attempts to silence the free media in poland, hungary and slovenia (2021/2560 ((rsp)) continues. i would remind members that in all the debates of this part-session there will be no catch-the-eye procedures or blue-card questions, as has been the custom. in addition, as in previous sessions, distance speeches are planned from our liaison offices in the member states.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, free and pluralistic media are, and must remain, a central pillar of our european democratic societies, founded on the promotion and protection of the rule of law. the freedom and pluralism of the media also reflects the underlying principle of our freedom of expression and information, as enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights. in this context, the eu and national institutions must ensure that independent, free and diverse media thrive, that journalists are protected from any harmful interference in their functions, and that citizens have access to reliable information. this should be true for every single member state. the covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated challenges that were already present before for media and journalists, such as the sharp decline in revenues and the numerous transformations brought about by the new digital environment. yet a free, independent and pluralistic media has never been as important as today to ensure a constructive, rational and open debate in our democracies. we have all seen the damage that conspiracy theories, fake news and disinformation can generate in our societies. they are the breeding ground for distrust and polarisation. in current times, journalists are not just watchdogs for democracy. they are key workers in the protection of all of us from the virus of disinformation. the variety of information and the plurality of voices are part and parcel of our democratic systems. a trustworthy media system is key to ensuring that all citizens are able to participate in the democratic debate through informed decision-making. the european democracy action plan, the eu media and audiovisual action plan and the digital services act, recently tabled by the commission, are important steps forward and set out actions to strengthen europe’s media ecosystem. on 23 february, i chaired a meeting of european affairs ministers, where we discussed the democracy action plan. we considered it a timely initiative, aiming to strengthen democratic processes and address currently existing vulnerabilities, including those threatening free and pluralistic media and freedom of speech. back in november, two days after the parliament adopted its resolution on strengthening media freedom, on 25 november, the council sent a strong message on the importance of safeguarding a free and pluralistic media system and also in its council conclusions. ministers will continue to highlight the importance of media freedom, including through the framework of the european rule of law mechanism. indeed, media pluralism and media freedom constitutes one of the four pillars of the rule of law annual report prepared by the commission. the presidency is committed to pursuing the annual council rule of law dialogue, initiated by the german presidency during their presidency, and to continue discussing these issues. on 20 april, we will have a country—specific discussion with ministers of european affairs concerning five member states – germany, ireland, greece, spain and france – and soon all member states will follow by protocol order. last year, the discussions demonstrated the willingness of member states to cooperate and learn from each other, including on media freedom. we trust that every member state will fully contribute to this important debate and ensure that media pluralism and freedom remain a reality. we all have a joint responsibility to guarantee that the rule of law and fundamental rights remain the cornerstone of our common european project.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you for including this important issue on the plenary agenda for today. media are not just an economic sector, but also an important pillar of democracy and the rule of law. press freedom and media pluralism are vital to democracy. independent media play an essential role to help citizens make informed decisions, to fight disinformation and the manipulation of the democratic debate. that is why the commission has included media freedom and pluralism as one pillar of our annual rule of law report, which was the first one published last september. the rule of law report assessed, in particular, the independence of the media regulatory authorities, transparency of media ownership, state advertising, the safety of journalists, and access to information. it looked at the situation in all member states, including hungary, poland and slovenia. the problems, and our concerns, were made very clear. we will also continue to cover media pluralism and freedom in this year’s rule of law report, which is expected in july. each rule of law report is preceded by fact-finding visits in all eu countries and discussions with national authorities and a wide range of stakeholders. the media are also covered in the article 7 procedure launched by this house in relation to hungary. i expect us to soon have the occasion to come back to the article 7 procedure in the general affairs council, where we have to discuss recent developments in relation to the media. the covid-19 pandemic has shown, more than ever, the essential role of journalists to inform citizens, but, at the same time, the media are facing an economic crisis which started well before the pandemic. more than ever, it is time to support the work of the media, and not to put additional burdens or pressures on them. this is exactly what the commission proposed in december, when, for the first time ever, we presented a comprehensive approach for the media. with the european democracy action plan, we put the media where they should be: at the core of democracy. let me highlight two initiatives, in particular, that we will present this year. a recommendation to member states to improve the safety of journalists, and an initiative on tackling abusive litigation, the so-called slapp cases, (strategic lawsuits against public participation). very often, threats and groundless lawsuits are used to silence free media. we will also take action to increase the transparency of media ownership and of political advertising. with the media and audiovisual action plan, which we also adopted in december, we helped the media recover economically from the crisis, adapt to the digital transformation and develop new business models. the stronger the economic situation of the media, the easier it is to resist political pressure, but there should be no political pressure in the first place. strong leaders are those that gain respect through their actions, that accept diversity of opinions and that allow citizens to be duly informed, not trolls that try to silence critical voices. in a democracy, independent media should do their work and ask questions without fear or favour. our job as politicians is to answer with facts, not with attacks. unfortunately, in recent months, additional worrying developments have happened. allow me to name some of them, which are just examples of the worrying trends. in hungary, most notably, we have seen that the independent klubradio was denied the renewal of its licence on grounds which have raised concerns, and it remains off air awaiting the outcome of a new procedure. in poland, draft legislation on an advertising tax targeting media outlets led to black screens as a sign of protest. i spoke about it here in parliament after this happened. this draft is now being reviewed, and we expect that the voices that raised concerns will be properly heard. in slovenia, continuous attempts to undermine the sustainable funding and the independence of the national press agency and frequent verbal attacks against journalists are also a cause of serious concern. for each of these cases, the commission has been in contact with the national authorities and continues to monitor the situation. let me assure you that the commission does not hesitate to act when there are issues of compliance of national laws or decisions with european union rules. in particular, i would like to highlight that we are analysing closely the transposition of the revised audiovisual media services directive, which introduced, for the first time, new independence requirements for national media regulators. and we will also watch closely the transposition of the modernised copyright framework and continue striving for a level playing field in the online world. this is also the aim of the new digital services and digital markets acts. this is essential for the sustainability of the media sector, as i mentioned earlier. in the concrete cases at hand, we watch, for instance, the potential impact on telecom and taxation rules. however, the reality is, as you know well, that the competences of the commission when it comes to media are very limited. whilst we will use those competences in a very diligent manner, i want us to identify how we can widen and strengthen the toolbox that the commission has, from financial support to regulation and enforcement actions. we need a tool which recognises the role of media as the key players in democratic society. at this moment, we only have the rules which recognise the role of the media as actors on the european single market, and this is what is limiting our ability to act. we will play our role, but governments also need to fulfil their obligations to ensure that media freedom is safeguarded and to enable a healthy environment for media pluralism.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, democracy dies in darkness, and dark it is in poland today. dark like the blacked—out websites and front pages of polish media protesting against the plan to strip independent media of their revenues and to silence critical voices. because we have been witnessing for years now a continuous attempt by the law and justice government in poland to silence free media, to deprive polish citizens of their right to information and to undermine the rule of law. from the takeover of public channels and turning them into propaganda channels, from restricting the access of certain journalists to the parliament, to pouring millions of polish zloty into those media that are faithful to the government and also into public television that has been turned into non–stop propaganda, spewing out hate speech and xenophobia, with the most dramatic result being the murder of paweł adamowicz, the mayor of gdańsk. we shall never, ever forget this. the rule of law, independence of the judiciary and media freedom must be upheld. an attack on polish independent media is an attack on us all. it is an attack on european values. the situation was best summarised yesterday by adam michnik, editor–in–chief of the independent daily gazeta wyborcza. he said ‘we are treated as enemies for the simple reason that we are independent and we have the courage to speak truth to power’. we stand with those who have the courage to speak truth to power. we stand with polish journalists and free media everywhere, and we call on everybody, including the council and the commission, to do the same.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not black days for free media in europe. in poland, several media outlets turned on black ads on february 10 in protest against a new advertising tax. officially, the tax targets internet giants like google, but in reality, the pis wants to silence media outlets that are critical of the government. in december, it had already acquired indirect access to two dozen regional media outlets through the purchase of the polska press newspaper group by a state-controlled oil company. on february 14, klubrádió was turned on analog for the last time, because the licenses were not renewed. since then, the last nationally known independent radio station in hungary is only available online, reaching only a fraction of its previous audience. in slovenia, there have been repeated verbal attacks by prime minister janša against a journalist and at the same time the situation around the slovenian press agency is getting worse. the government had suspended funding again. freedom of the media and media diversity are essential pillars of democracy. but it is not enough to analyse their situation in annual reports, to emphasize their importance in fine words and to give exhortations. we need to see the consequences and the council must act.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i say to madam vice-president and to my colleagues: thanks for being here and for this debate. i think everybody in this room would agree that media freedom and pluralism are key for democracies not just to thrive, but to survive. at this moment, in many member states, the red lights are indeed flashing. it has been said here, of course: in slovenia, you see the prime minister busy with personal attacks on journalists, not just local, but also brussels journalists, and launching an attack against the press agency. in slovakia, actually my country, this was also the case before the murder of ján kuciak, so i remember it very well. poland was also mentioned, with its new tax law, and it just so happens that the tax law targets those media outlets which dare to be critical of the government. and then, obviously, you have hungary, where the media landscape has been almost completely ruined over the past few years. and just the other week, one of the last independent radio stations, klubradio, was forced off the air. i have to say that the response of the eu has so far been inadequate. there is no condemnation from other member states. the commission has taken little concrete action, and this has to change. i welcome the fact that the vice–president has suggested some new tools. the parliament would support the commission in that, but it is time to act now. otherwise, it could very well be too late for these democracies because the attack on free media is often the beginning of the creep of authoritarianism.
mr president, do you really want to condemn poland, hungary and slovenia for wanting to impose rules on the mass media? for the mass media to pay some taxes? for the mass media to no longer be able to write whatever they want, whether it's intimidation, fear, or often manipulation of public opinion, which they unfortunately often abuse. what's the problem, that the far-left media will no longer control 95 percent of the media share, but only 85 percent? you know, it's very interesting that the european union is silent when the mainstream media is literally censoring conservative politicians, when they're lynching anti-immigration activists, when they're lynching defenders of traditional values. but when someone dares to criticize the media or ngos, suddenly there is a big shake-up in brussels. this is unbelievable.
mr president, madam commissioner, colleagues, words are not harmless. verbal attacks on journalists can actually even lead to murder. as we have seen in malta and slovakia, where the murders were preceded by endless verbal attacks by political leaders. i’m very worried to see now that, in the slovenian government, they are taking on the same habits of attacking journalists. that not only has a chilling effect on the freedom of the media and on their freedom of expression, but it actually gives people almost literally a licence to kill it. it adds to a climate of hatred, and we should speak out. i hope that in slovenia, but also in other countries where this is taking place, we can make sure that it doesn’t run off track the way it has in hungary and poland, where we can say that the media are no longer free and therefore they are no longer complete democracies. and finally, madam commissioner, i would like to ask you to put forward legislative proposals not just on slapp, but also on transparency of media ownership, because we see how governments are using their power to buy the media, to control the media. so please, legislative proposals. (applause)
mr president, a free and independent media is the backbone of any flourishing democracy. if we stood here some 10 years ago, we might not be having this discussion at all, but we do have a european problem with the media situation. let’s face the facts. the media situation in a number of central european countries has worsened in recent years. the world press freedom index has seen hungary, poland, even slovenia, but also the czech republic, my own country slovakia, and bulgaria drop significantly from the better positions they held just a couple of years ago. the political atmosphere and public environment in which journalists work matter. in slovakia and malta, we learned the hard way. we witnessed the very extreme: the death of journalists. i’m always sad to watch heightened tensions online and offline, and i’m very concerned when politicians use social media to attack journalists. to reverse this trend, each of us, dear colleagues, can make a difference by using words responsibly. we must also ask the commission, madam commissioner, for a more thorough and regular monitoring of the media situation and media ownership across all member states, and for stronger european support for independent media. journalists deserve better national and european protection through anti-slapp laws, punishment of crimes against them, and strong institutional foundations for independent public broadcasters. the bottom line is that european democracy will only endure with media that work in line with europe’s values. there is no other way.
for the ecr group. madam president, as a member of the european parliament from slovakia, i have my reasons for welcoming the experts from the european medicines agency at the beginning of my speech and thanking them for their independence in assessing individual vaccines. now, to the point. national recovery plans go beyond the electoral period and, in particular, those countries that lack continuity in their political culture and that start each electoral period from scratch, must achieve an absolute broad social consensus in the plans, including the social partners and including broad civil society. the final payment of the huge money package will reach the member states on 31 december 2026. time is short, money is plentiful, and those member states in particular who have been unable to draw on european resources for a long time should wake up, because of excessive bureaucracy and because they look at every applicant as a potential thief, because they have not been able to deal systematically with corruption in the euro funds. as chair of the employment committee, i will ensure that investments and reforms contribute to a fair recovery from the crisis and that they reach those most affected by the crisis.
in writing. the introduction of so-called green covid passports must not discriminate against those who, for various reasons, could not be vaccinated, and must only be a temporary measure that will be abolished after the end of the pandemic. of course, in the event of further possible global health crises, it will be possible to consider renewing them. it is a way of making it easier for europeans, including slovaks, to travel this summer and of unifying the countries' different approaches to the treatment of incoming tourists and other travellers. of course, it is still necessary to ensure that vaccination is not mandatory and therefore the introduction of a covid passport must also allow people to choose to prove themselves with alternative confirmations to vaccination, namely a negative pcr test or a certificate of covid-19 disease recovery. the decision on which vaccines outside the ema's official portfolio will be recognised by individual countries must remain entirely within their competence. i appreciate that the european commission allows member states to include vaccines outside the ema portfolio in the green passport, in addition to vaccines registered by the ema. i believe that many eu countries will soon accept the russian sputnik v vaccine, which is still being evaluated by the ema and has already been purchased by some eu countries. in order for our citizens to really benefit from these green covid passports, it is necessary that they enter into force before the summer holidays, under the conditions mentioned.
in writing. the european commission's digital agenda 2030 vision for a digital europe that puts the digital development of businesses and citizens at its core. support the objective that by 2030 three quarters of enterprises should use cloud computing services, big data and artificial intelligence technologies. it is also important for competitiveness that 90% of smes should reach basic digital maturity. however, in order to achieve this, the commission should provide adequate support to european businesses, in particular the sme sector. the commission's vision is also in line with the objectives of the hungarian government's digital welfare programme. the digital well-being capital programme, introduced in 2019, supports projects for the development of digital products and services by domestic micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and startups with capital investments of at least huf 10 million and up to huf 500 million. by the end of last year, the government had distributed a total of some huf 3.7 billion in aid to enterprises. it is important that the commission proactively explores the potential of digital technology, data and artificial intelligence to increase the productivity of enterprises and the well-being of the workforce. the hungarian government's artificial intelligence strategy also stands out, which envisages that by 2030 one million citizens will find work with more significant added value from a digital point of view, with the help of artificial intelligence, hungary's gdp will grow, and the productivity of smes will increase by 26%.
in writing. – data is an essential resource necessary for training artificial intelligence. furthermore, the processing of anonymized medical data will enable us to draw very useful conclusions regarding the spread of pandemics, such as covid-19 and its various mutations. it will also allow us to make progress in figuring out treatments for rare and chronic illnesses. in order to be able to achieve these scientific developments and to be able to find potential efficiency gains in our everyday lives, for instance in the field of energy efficiency, data needs to be shared and it needs to be accessible for those that need to process it. although some fundamental safeguards are necessary, we must make sure that the regulatory burden and cost of compliance does not overwhelm the administrative capabilities of our smes. it is precisely our smes that are the cradle of innovation in europe. in addition to fostering innovation, they provide a significant number of jobs, forming the backbone of our economy. therefore, our data strategy and its implementation are of key importance for our future prosperity. we need to get it right from the beginning!
the own-initiative report under discussion puts the european parliament in a position to develop its role as co-legislator more effectively and with greater influence in the legislative package for the second wave of digitalisation and the digital transition, and in particular in the regulations on data management, digital services and digital markets. i would stress the broad commitment that has been made, giving force to a vision of the data economy that is closely linked to the objectives of the european green deal, respecting the principles of transparency, trust, the centrality of people, human rights and democracy. an important commitment also in the priority given to creating more services and opportunities for citizens and for businesses, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. the content of the report is in line with the view i have put forward in several ongoing debates and negotiations that a european citizenship pact for data is needed, which allows citizens' data to be converted into services of general interest and easy access, promoting democratic, green and inclusive digitisation. the focus on skills and interoperability is key to this approach.
rapporteur. – madam president, the progress report that we’ll be discussing and voting on today covers a period of two years. this should have been full of dynamic events for the western balkans. despite some positive developments like the enlargement methodology, the decision of the european council on north macedonia and on albania at the end of last year was harmful for the western balkans and had a direct negative impact on the respective countries and their societies. but the covid pandemic that hit the region dramatically has shown us something else. europe has managed to prove that it stands behind its partners. the mobilisation of eur 3.3 billion for the countries of the region to deal with the effects of the pandemic was a clear demonstration of the european solidarity which has long been called into question. it has now proven to be real and this is well underlined in all four reports, because the eu’s engagement with the western balkans surpasses that of any other region and is in our strategic interest. in particular, on the republic of north macedonia, as standing rapporteur i would work to highlight some important elements of the report. but before that, let me first express my gratitude for the constructive work of the shadow rapporteurs, whose contributions undoubtedly enriched the report. north macedonia has come along and uneasy way to building reforms and compromises, until it reached the stage of starting formal eu accession negotiations and deservedly became the 30th nato member. the report clearly reflects that. it is an objective account of what we have seen in that country in recent years. indeed, consistent progress was achieved. the country demonstrated continuity in its dedicated commitment to the european path and understanding of the need to implement stable and inclusive democratic reforms, to stand for democracy and the rule of law in order to reinforce the climate of mutual trust. the report recognises that and further calls on all political parties to remain constructive, to refrain from using nationalistic and inflammatory rhetoric. engaging in a constructive dialogue is a prerequisite of good governance in the pursuit of the cross—party goal of accession. maintaining a steady pace in adopting eu reforms as a means of ensuring efficient functioning of democratic institutions and procedures is also well recognised. of course, some setbacks such as the impact of the covid—19 pandemic and the tensions in the diplomatic relations with bulgaria were noted as well. but north macedonia shouldn’t stop with the reforms as in some areas, like the fight against corruption, organised crime and media freedom, more reforms are needed. reforms are needed in areas like more inclusivity in the society. we need to see deeper and faster reforms, and we need to see progress for sure. it is further important that public administration reforms are prioritised by systematically applying merit—based standards in public appointments and in promotions. the cooperative approach of north macedonia throughout the negotiations of the prespa agreement with greece and the treaty on good neighbourly relations with bulgaria is also underlined. having said that i hope that both countries – north macedonia and bulgaria – will resume the constructive dialogue on the pending bilateral issues in order to achieve sustainable results. reaching a compromise over an action plan of concrete measures, implementation of which is to be regularly assessed in accordance with the friendship treaty, would start the process and would allow the council to convene the first intergovernmental conference as soon as possible. i am convinced that further delays will put at risk the credibility, objectivity and reliability of the accession process. we have to focus on the bigger picture. through building trust together we are building our common future within the eu as we need bridges that unite us more than walls that divide. няколко думи и на български. когато едно доверие е нарушено, безспорно то трябва да бъде възстановено и най-добрият начин за това е да се върнем към основите на договора. само той ще ни даде възможност да начертаем пътната карта на региона, който неминуемо е свързан с интеграцията на всички страни в европейския съюз. от това ще спечели регионалното сътрудничество, от това ще спечелят добросъседските отношения, от това ще спечели и целият европейски съюз. finally, on the kosovo report, for which i am shadow rapporteur, the country has demonstrated continued and strong commitment to advancing on its european path and accelerating the reforms, as well as strong support for european integration among the population, and all of this deserves to be underlined. i do believe it is high time for all european member states to recognise kosovo and all its citizens to benefit from visa liberalisation, because all the benchmarks have been fulfilled since 2018. the last elections once again demonstrated that the country deserves credit for showing a high level of political opportunity, and i look forward for the new government speeding up the reforms and working actively on the pristina—belgrade dialogue.
rapporteur. – madam president, let me begin by saying that i very much regret that i have not been able to travel to the western balkans in over a year. and this is the case for all of us here, colleagues and i think it’s important to underline that we need to re-open as soon as this is possible, because if we really truly want to be engaged in the region of the western balkans, we must be engaged on the ground. meanwhile, we have been engaged. we have been engaged through various channels, online and through the modern technologies and we have followed the situation very, very closely. we have been engaged in conversation with our partners, and i do want to express my sincere condolences to all of those who have lost their loved ones in serbia but also across the western balkans. we are all in this pandemic together and we can come out of this pandemic only together; and i hope we come out of it stronger by also underlying what unites us. and what unites us is the european perspective, european perspective for serbia, european perspective for the countries in the region of the western balkans. as a standing rapporteur for serbia, i believe we have a balanced report on serbia. we welcome progress where progress has been made and we are critical where criticism is due. but most of all, what i’ve tried to push – and we did have difficult negotiations on the report, is a constructive forward looking approach. we cannot dwell on a single case or a single detail. i think we as politicians have the responsibility for pushing a systematic change. a systematic change, not because of us in europe, only, but because of the people and the countries in the region. this is important, and this is especially important as a message to my and our serbian partners. let me highlight some of the details from the report and some of the key messages. i very much welcome the fact that eu membership continues to be serbia’s strategic goal and strategic priority, and that it is among the priorities of the newly formed government following the elections in june last year. however, we need to inject more dynamism into the negotiating process. it’s a welcome sign that the report by the commission was discussed in the narodna skupština. that was a very good point, but of course what’s in the report by the commission but also in this report – which i hope we adopt successfully in this house today – are the key messages, which we want to discuss in partnership. we are here to support the reforms and the change, which must take place on the ground. it’s important that we remember the basic criteria, the copenhagen criteria, and the basic criterion is the political criterion. that’s why rule of law reforms are essential. that’s why the inter-party dialogue within serbia – which i very much welcome and i welcome the fact that we launched its second phase in our conversation with ivica dačić earlier this month – is key for making progress on the quality of political competition, on the quality of electoral conditions and on the quality of democracy in serbia. i do hope we have a meaningful conversation with all pro-european forces in the coming months in serbia, and we can help through our facilitation by members of the european parliament and other colleagues, to achieve progress in this area. we need more trust, more good faith, more dialogue, less and fewer conflicts and we also need a calmer atmosphere. attacks against journalists are unacceptable. attacks against ngos are unacceptable. we will have a debate this afternoon in this house about malta and i do hope that all of us who are so critical about the situation with journalists in serbia will be equally critical with respect to malta, or other countries: my own slovakia, for instance. this is important. we need to hold everybody to the same standards. this is the message which i want to send to our serbian partners. i do want to welcome the progress that’s been made in the pristina in the belgrade-pristina dialogue. that’s something which has been a big achievement in terms of the past year. the eu facilitated, eu-led dialogue. it is important it continues and it is important it brings results. we do need a comprehensive legally binding agreement, which will help us reconcile the past and move forward. this is important for the european perspective for serbia and the european perspective of the region. reconciliation in general is a point which we must underline. and i also want to underline the fact that in public communication it is important to take action following words. this is in particular important when it comes to foreign policy, in the case of serbia. serbia has had the lowest alignment rate with our foreign policy. this must change. the only meaningful european future of serbia can only take place if serbia does gradually move ahead in this respect. and i very much hope that we can have much closer ties when it comes to countering the negative influences, also the fight against disinformation with respect to russia and china. this is a joint debate, and let me just make a point on albania very quickly on behalf of my colleague david lega, who is a shadow rapporteur. we welcome the commitment of albania to integration and support the convening of the first intergovernmental conference following the complete fulfilment of the conditions set out by the european council, but the fight against corruption and amendments to the media law are a crucial element. let me make one last point on enlargement in general. i think we would deserve a much bigger debate on this issue here. this has been one of the biggest achievements of the european project in the past decades. i think each country would deserve its own debate and i hope we can do this next time we meet and discuss the western balkans.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank the distinguished rapporteurs for their presentations and their reports that are very timely and important for us also in the council. and let me begin by recalling the eu’s unequivocal support for the european perspective of the western balkans region based on fair and rigorous conditionality and on the principles of own merits. the portuguese presidency remains committed to strengthening the eu engagement with the region, in particular in these challenging times of the coronavirus crisis. i would like to recall that the council, in its conclusions of march 2020, decided to open the accession negotiations with the republic of north macedonia and the republic of albania. and i concur with you in welcoming the determination demonstrated by these two countries to advance on the eu reform agenda and to deliver tangible and sustained results. these decisions pave the way for the important work on the framework for negotiations that is still going on in the council. the presidency is determined to continue the work with a view to holding the first intergovernmental conferences and formally opening the accession negotiations has soon as possible. as you know, in march 2020, the council endorsed the commission communication enhancing the accession process. the objective is to make this process more predictable, more credible, dynamic and subject to stronger political steering, based on objective criteria and rigorous positive and negative conditionality and reversibility. at the same time, it underlines that fundamental, democratic rule-of-law and economic reforms represent the core objective of the accession process. the proper functioning and independence of the democratic institutions are essential elements of well-functioning democracies and a key condition for eu accession. in this regard, let me stress the importance of continued reforms and their implementation by both the republic of north macedonia and the republic of albania. regarding the republic of north macedonia in particular, i would like to stress that the portuguese presidency, along with the commission, has been actively supporting all efforts to find pragmatic solutions to pave the way for the approval of the negotiation framework in the council with a view to holding the first intergovernmental conference as soon as possible. consistent progress has been achieved, but at the same time, we also urge the authorities and the political parties of north macedonia to sustain their efforts to strengthen democracy and implement the deeper reforms. with regard to albania, constructive political dialogue and cooperation in parliament between the government and the opposition is essential for progress and the sustainability of the reforms. even after the electoral reform, the political environment remains strongly paralysed and we stress the importance of further strengthening the political dialogue within the country. we also commend albania for its continuous 100% alignment with eu common foreign and security policy, which serves as a positive example for the entire region. now on serbia, i would like to start by underlining that the president’s aim is to hold an intergovernmental conference if possible, still this semester, under the revised enlargement methodology and to advance the eu enlargement process as much as possible. as you well know, the pace of the accession negotiations will continue to depend on serbia’s own progress and reform efforts, in particular in the key areas of the rule of law and in the normalisation of relations with kosovo. we welcome the fact that the new serbian government has made eu integration and the normalisation of relations with kosovo its priority. despite some advances, we need to see more progress on the rule of law and we need to see more, faster implementation of the reforms. it is particularly important that the reforms focus on the independence of the judiciary, the fight against corruption, media freedom, domestic handling of war crimes and the fight against organised crime. it is also important that serbia fulfils its commitment and steps up its efforts in gradually aligning with eu common foreign and security policy. we encourage parliamentarian political forces in serbia to engage in the inter-party dialogue, led by the european parliament, with a view to forging broad cross-party and societal consensus on eu-related reforms. and i really would like to thank the european parliament for its relentless efforts in this process. we also welcome the resumption of the eu-facilitated belgrade-pristina dialogue. it’s important that it will continue. it’s important that we will get some concrete results. we expect serbia and the new government in kosovo to engage in this dialogue in good faith and in the spirit of compromise to achieve a comprehensive, legally binding agreement in accordance with international law and the eu acquis. the stabilisation and association agreement offers kosovo an opportunity for sustainable progress and rapprochement with the european union, in line with the european perspective on the region. at the same time, it creates opportunities for trade and investment. we share your concerns about the limited progress in reforms in kosovo and the challenging domestic political context marked by early elections and several changes in government. we certainly call for an acceleration of the reforms and all political actors must now deliver. we recognise the importance of visa liberalisation for kosovo’s citizens and the portuguese presidency will continue to follow this matter. finally, i would like to stress, as some of you have mentioned here, that the covid-19 crisis continues to have a severe negative impact on all our societies and on all our economies, and the eu is providing significant support to the western balkans, including to kosovo. so let me assure you that we remain committed to continuing this important cooperation. thank you very much for your attention, and thank you, madam president, for your indulgence.
member of the commission. – madam president, i should like to thank the house for its continued strong support for the european perspective of the whole of the western balkan region. as your reports recognise, we have gone through an extremely difficult year. but we have never lost sight of our closest neighbours, providing unprecedented support to the western balkans region. for example, the eur 3.3 billion emergency support package a year ago was also coupled with an economic package of eur 9 billion only last october, and we hope to raise another eur 20 billion together with the economic plan. in addition, we extended a number of initiatives normally reserved for eu member states to our partners in the region, effectively treating them as future eu members. this is in line with the strong commitment of this commission to the western balkans. the region is a priority for us. its future lies in the european union. our current focus is on providing vaccines as soon as possible. unfortunately, this is proving more difficult than we had hoped. but i can assure you that we are leaving no stone unturned to get vaccines to the region. i am very pleased that the covax mechanism, to which the eu is one of the biggest contributors, is now delivering the first doses to the western balkans. we also continue working with eu member states and vaccine manufacturers to work to resell vaccine doses to the western balkans under the advance purchase agreements for which the eu is making available eur 70 million, only to the western balkans. in order to be able to continue our important support to the western balkans we would need to agree as soon as possible on the future instrument, the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) iii. i express my hope and expectation to this distinguished house that we will soon be able to reach a compromise confirming to the region that the eu is a credible partner. let me now turn to the reports. i thank all rapporteurs for their work and commitment. i will begin with albania. let me start by acknowledging the exceptional challenges the country has had to cope with due to the devastating earthquake just before they were hit with the covid—19 pandemic. albania’s determination in the pursuit of its eu reform agenda is therefore all the more remarkable. this enthusiasm and engagement is something that we need to praise and recognise. we consider that albania has fulfilled the conditions set by the council in march last year for the holding of the first intergovernmental conference (igc). the implementation of the justice reform has continued. both the constitutional court and the high court have resumed functioning. the vetting process of the re—evaluation of judges and prosecutors is progressing smoothly. this is an unprecedented reform and has our full support. the fight against corruption, organised crime and money laundering have also continued. the specialised structures against corruption and organised crime have all been established. as you may have seen, there has been good progress made in law enforcement, where we have witnessed a number of successful large—scale international operations. of course, we need to stress the importance of continuing the reform effort, particularly with respect to the further vetting and appointment of magistrates, as well as strengthening the track record on law enforcement. we have commended progress made on the electoral reform in accordance with the 5 june agreement of last year and implementing the recommendations made by the office for democratic institutions and human rights at the organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce/odihr). ahead of the upcoming elections it is important – and i do encourage all political parties to do their best here – to maintain a constructive dialogue, also on all other crucial matters. this will ensure that albania continues to deliver results and moves steadily on its path towards the eu. the commission will continue to monitor this thoroughly and, at the same time, it goes without saying that the track record of the efforts against crime and corruption must continue. against the background of all these achievements, we do look forward to the adoption of the negotiating framework and to holding the first igc as soon as possible with albania. we stand ready to help the presidency to this end. let me now turn to kosovo. i’m pleased to see that we are very much on the same page on what kosovo’s priorities should be to advance on its european path. the commission also agrees with the parliament’s position that it is high time to proceed on visa liberalisation for kosovo’s citizens but, as you know, the decision has to be made by the member states in the council. we encourage kosovo’s authorities to reach out to member states to address their remaining concerns. this is a critical moment for kosovo. the citizens have just made their voices heard through elections and the new leadership will soon be in place. there are three main messages i would like to make. first, it is essential to complete the setting-up of new institutions. after the formation of the new assembly and the new government this monday, kosovo needs to elect a new president without delay. kosovo cannot afford more political uncertainty in these challenging times. second, we welcome the fact that the winning party has put a strong emphasis on issues that are at the core of kosovo’s european agenda, such as the fight against corruption and organised crime, economic and social development and the shift towards a greener economy. with its strong mandate, the new government will have an opportunity to deliver on reforms. the commission stands ready to support it in its direction. however, we also expect the government to build and take ownership of key existing reform commitments and achievements. my third message concerns the eu-facilitated dialogue with serbia. it is essential that the new government of kosovo commits to continuing the dialogue. this is crucial for the citizens of kosovo and serbia, the normalisation of relations between the two and for the perspectives of both. eu special representative lajčák visited the region earlier this month and expects that the next high—level meeting can take place within a reasonable time. let me now turn to north macedonia. overall, the draft report is in line with the main findings of the commission report and also the latest developments are fully reflected. as you have rightly pointed out, north macedonia has maintained a steady pace in its implementation of eu reforms, in particular in key areas of the rule of law, the fight against corruption and organised crime. however, much needs to be done. the member states’ decision to open accession negotiations last spring was truly historic. we look forward to the adoption of the negotiating framework and the holding of the first intergovernmental conference as soon as possible, hopefully still under this presidency. in the meantime, it is important that both the government and the opposition continue to deliver on eu—related reforms, in particular with regard to the fundamentals. as you know, regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations form an essential part of the country’s process of moving towards the eu. it is important that bilateral agreements, including the prespa agreement with greece and the treaty on good neighbourly relations with bulgaria, continue to be implemented in good faith by all parties. at such a pivotal moment, i encourage both skopje and sofia to redouble their efforts to find a mutually acceptable solution to the pending bilateral issues. i would like to echo your report by encouraging all parties to act in a constructive manner and to refrain from statements or actions that might undermine the eu’s wider interests. this house has shown its continued dedication to improve the democratic processes in north macedonia and to support the country’s eu perspective, including through the jean monnet dialogue. i count on you to remain engaged and to send common messages of encouragement to north macedonia. lastly, let me turn to serbia. i welcome the report as an encouragement for serbia to accelerate on its path to the eu accession. the report acknowledges the accomplishments while, of course, much more still needs to be done. i’m glad that the joint parliamentary committee with serbia has recently been relaunched, the inter—party dialogue with the serbian parliament and the european commission, of course, strongly supports this dialogue as a crucial forum for cross—party debates. on the accession negotiations with serbia, last week i presented to the council a proposal of how the revised methodology could be applied both to montenegro and serbia. i look forward to the member states deciding soon and bringing this forward. we need to encourage the country to remain fully engaged on its eu path. this is key for the stability of the region. we now have the opportunity to speed up the country’s accession negotiations provided that key eu—related reforms are implemented as an urgent priority. this is also an opportunity to make progress in the eu—facilitated dialogue with pristina towards a comprehensive, legally binding agreement. we must build on the commitment of the new government in belgrade. we need to engage intensively with the authorities in these three interconnected objectives: bring forward reforms; bring forward accession negotiations and successfully conclude the dialogue with pristina. we have already seen commitment in a number of crucial areas, such as kicking off the second phase of the inter—party dialogue, launching the constitutional reform by submitting the initiative to change the constitution in the area of the judiciary to the parliament, and the government’s adoption of the action plan of the new media strategy. of course, much more still needs to be done. our priority now is to work with the authorities to help them translate these steps into tangible progress on the ground. we’re grateful for the continued support of members of the european parliament in passing these messages. whatever the difficulties, serbia should not lose sight of its eu membership goal. it should keep focusing on fundamental reforms with continued eu support. with this, i thank you very much for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of enlargement because we are convinced that it is the best way, the quickest way, to overcome the terrible consequences of communism. even in the present-day republic of north macedonia, anyone who openly declares his bulgarian identity and origin is discriminated against. historical truth is taboo, and those who openly share it are subject to pressure, insults and discrimination. the problem is not a cultural-historical dispute, but the trampling of basic democratic rights by one candidate, such as the right to free expression without fear of negative consequences. over 130,000 are bulgarian citizens of origin in the republic of north macedonia, as part of the bulgarian historical community, which until the tito regime came represented the majority there. these people live in fear, they are pressured not to register as bulgarians during the upcoming census. the last example is the eurovision contest representative. his only sin was that he shared his bulgarian origin. a wave of insults, threats and attempts to have him removed from the competition followed. yes to enlargement to all countries of the western balkans, no to lies, hatred and discrimination. colleagues, especially from the greens and from the socialists: please wake up and open your eyes. i see colleague fajon is after me. is it for you a historical provocation towards the slovenian people if i say something about the atrocities of the tito's communists, especially, for example, in huda jama? madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of enlargement because we are convinced that it is the best way, the quickest way, to overcome the terrible consequences of communism. even in the present-day republic of north macedonia, anyone who openly declares his bulgarian identity and origin is discriminated against. historical truth is taboo, and those who openly share it are subject to pressure, insults and discrimination. the problem is not a cultural-historical dispute, but the trampling of basic democratic rights by one candidate, such as the right to free expression without fear of negative consequences. over 130,000 are bulgarian citizens of origin in the republic of north macedonia as part of the bulgarian historical community, which until the tito regime came represented a majority there. these people live in fear, they are pressured not to register as bulgarians during the upcoming census. the last example is the eurovision contest representative. his only sin was that he shared his bulgarian origin. a wave of insults, threats and attempts to have him removed from the competition followed. yes to enlargement to all countries of the western balkans, no to lies, hatred and discrimination.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, enlargement policy is the foundation of a stable and united europe. there is no more time for excuses, for excuses, for political blackmail, for dishonesty, for breaking promises. the western balkan countries are part of europe and we share the responsibility for the progress and development of our continent. we've had too many disappointments on both sides of the enlargement process. and without a profound leap in the awareness that we need each other, we will fail and the damage will be felt by the citizens, especially the young people who are leaving the western balkans in large numbers today. the reports we are discussing today are a balanced and credible overview of two years of work in four countries. they have all made progress in the rule of law, fundamental rights, free media, the fight against corruption, but there is still much work to be done. and our message today must be clear: we support the countries on their way to the european union, but at the same time we will not accept any concessions, especially when it comes to respect for the rule of law and democracy. today, i renew my call on the governments of the european union to honour their promise to open accession negotiations for albania and north macedonia. the states have fulfilled the conditions. the bulgarian veto of north macedonia is irresponsible. one-sided interests, the election calendar have nothing to do with the criteria that the state must meet. i therefore call on bulgaria to withdraw its veto. the credibility of the european union is now being tested. the crisis on the horizon today will also threaten the enlargement process for other countries. i wish the western balkan countries today above all good luck on their journey and much wisdom and courage to help them along the way.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i’ll focus on the progress report on albania, but many of the key messages are in fact wider in application and relate to the western balkans as a whole. and the key message from the european parliament on albania, but also more generally, is that despite all the difficulties, despite the pandemic, the european union and this parliament specifically remains absolutely committed to moving forward with the accession negotiations with respect to albania, and convening that very important first intergovernmental conference as soon as possible. now as elsewhere, in albania obviously the challenges are obvious and must be addressed. in the case of albania, its democracy is in dire need of consolidation and stability and the country needs to move beyond the climate of constant political conflict and division that we’ve seen in recent years. and here the upcoming parliamentary elections in april, as was said by the commissioner, will be a crucial test. whoever wins, there can be absolutely no doubt that elections are organised in a free and fair fashion and in accordance with the best international practices. anything short of that will sow distrust of democratic institutions, prolonged political conflict and damage albania’s accession trajectory. and second, and this is again of a more general nature and it has been mentioned by the commissioner, the justice sector and reforms in the rule of law must be of the highest priority to the next government, especially after what we are experiencing in the eu that some member states after accession are, we say, undermining the rule of law, checks and balances. therefore, it is absolutely clear and right that compliance when it comes to rule of law will become more stringent than ever when it comes to the enlargement countries. the european union, and this parliament in particular, will continue to support albania and all the other states on the european path.
mr president, daphne caruana was not a remote victim of an incident. she was the target of a criminal organisation of corruption and fraud, plotted from and by the very top of the maltese government. for years those in power have tried to transform malta into a paradise for dark business and golden business. for years they have tried to establish a code of silence and fear. but enough is enough. malta deserves better. the european union must do something. we demand the maltese government to take full responsibility in this case. criminals must be brought to justice: those who killed daphne, but also those who gave them instructions and political protection. protecting killers of a journalist from the government – from the government – is one of the most serious attacks on the rule of law. the maltese government should be aware, if they don’t help to solve the murder of daphne caruana, this chamber will have to act, and it will not be just a simple resolution. and we demand to our friends the social democrats in this chamber to break all ties with the maltese labour party, because this party is protecting the killers of daphne. i say it again, killers! and this is shameful for the social democrats and for the whole chamber.
mr president, in past speeches to this plenary my comrades and i promised that the labour government in malta would relentlessly strive to find the murderers of daphne caruana galizia and bring them to justice. that promise is still valid and it is being fully honoured. the road has been longer than we’ve anticipated, but it is still being followed. shocking discoveries have been made. some have got close to the bone, but there have been no let-ups. other discoveries may still made about them too. there will be no indulgence: that this is so, the robert abela administration in malta has given more than enough assurances and it will continue to deliver on its promises. meanwhile, it has also been carrying out institutional reforms that respond to what the council of europe and eu institutions, including this house, have called for. but there is a time for political initiative and action. there is a time for the police to investigate and prosecute and there is a time for the courts to judge. this debate has been called at the same time that crucial evidence about the caruana galizia murder and more is being given in a court of law. in this house, in the past, the malta government was criticised for not having yet prosecuted perpetrators of the murder. now we are there and there should be no place for political or other intervention in the judicial process. we claim, as one of our basic values, that the full separation should be observed between the judicial, executive and legislative arms of government. yet this debate is quite clearly intruding hugely in judicial processes that have been making slow but spectacular progress. it brings no value-added to the rule of law or to justice. quite rightly, in the past, this house kept back from discussing lengthy controversial cases arising in the judicial system of member states, such as the sarkozy case in france and the bárcenas-gürtel scandal in spain. so why are two weights and two measures being applied today? i can only repeat one assurance. there will be full justice, without fear or favour, towards all those guilty of the atrocious murder of daphne caruana galizia.
mr president, indeed the assassination of daphne caruana galizia was an exceptionally gruesome and vicious crime that at the time very few in europe thought was possible. it awoke everyone all over europe to some serious rule-of-law problems in malta, but also more broadly, to the importance of investigative journalism, media freedom and the rule of law. and after what happened to her, but also ján kuciak in slovakia, we can never become complacent about the safety of journalists in europe. yet still, even today, we see people in power in several member states verbally attacking journalists and complaining about media scrutiny. so today, step by step – although it’s taking too long – the work of daphne caruana galizia has been vindicated in malta and, as has been said, her family is entitled to justice and the full truth behind the murder, but also all journalists in europe are entitled to a safe and free environment to pursue their hugely important work.
for the left. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that we will soon be voting on the amendment of the union's civil protection mechanism. the rapporteur's very intensive work has also made it possible for the mechanism to simply allow us to respond better to the challenges of the contemporary world. the mechanism was primarily used for natural disaster-related tasks. however, the past year has shown that the union and the member states are not sufficiently prepared to respond to large-scale emergencies and that the existing legal framework is simply not enough. it was imperative, and we did, that resceu's capacities be significantly strengthened to improve performance in each of the three pillars of the union mechanism: prevention, preparedness and response. this has led, among other things, to the creation of a common european stock of emergency medical equipment such as ventilators, masks, gloves, laboratory equipment. in addition, through the civil protection mechanism, the european union has coordinated and financed the delivery of more than 15 million pieces of medical equipment to almost 30 countries worldwide. so the mechanism will now be designed to allow us to respond effectively. a huge thank you goes out to you, but i'll take a sigh. it's a shame that while we can agree on medical devices, we're not as supportive of revoking patents on vaccines that could save more of those real human lives. so let's be united, let's not talk about it, and when we've started, let's finish by ending the patent protection of vaccines and save millions of lives.
mr. chairman, madam commissioner, i thank my colleague for a very well-prepared report. ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the union civil protection mechanism, it is good that all the political groups have a similar stance that supports any effort that could mitigate all the negative consequences of disasters, including greater financial resources. it is important to recall that since the establishment of the civil protection mechanism in 2001, it has been activated more than four hundred times, of which one hundred and two-thirds were related to the coronavirus pandemic in 2020 alone. in my country, croatia, civil protection has played a significant role since the civil war, and now as part of homeland security. i am pleased that the report recognised the positive impact of enhancing the response capacity of the mechanism by directly procuring resources from the european commission so that member states could be given full support in case of need. i also welcome the strengthening of the european response coordination centre which serves as a base for national civil protection centres to strengthen coordination. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. this is a particularly important political and operational message for the member states, but also for the european institutions.
member of the commission. – mr president, i thank the rapporteur and honourable members for their interventions and strong support. the commission stands ready to operationalise the revised legislation without delay. we will swiftly take forward the work on the union’s disaster resilience goals and on building up our resceu capacities, closely collaborating with the member states and the incoming slovenian presidency. a positive vote by this house would lay a strong foundation for our joint work towards a much more resilient and better prepared europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 27 april 2021. (the sitting was suspended at 9.11 p.m.)
author. – mr president, ‘es gibt in der ganzen natur keinen wichtigeren, keinen der betrachtung würdigeren gegenstand als den boden’. these are words of friedrich albert fallou, the founder of modern soil science, 150 years ago. and sadly, it looks like we again haven’t listened to the scientists. our own european environmental agency very clearly says that: ‘the absence of suitable eu soil legislation contributes to the soil degradation within europe. (…) the lack of a comprehensive and coherent soil policy framework for protecting europe’s land and soil resources is the key gap that reduces the effectiveness of the existing incentives and measures’ and limits the ability to achieve our goals including the european green deal and climate neutrality. so again, europe is not on track to protect its limited soil resources based on the existing strategies. and, what’s more, a number of threats to the soil like compaction, like salinisation, like soil sealing are not even addressed in the eu legislation at all. and due to that, we are failing to meet our international obligations, for example with the sustainable development goals. we hear a lot about chemicals and about biodiversity, but i want to point out one particular problem with the soil and that is that we are losing carbon from the soil. we are losing carbon and adding to greenhouse gas emissions where soil could be an amazing carbon sink, a natural carbon sink, just when we do things right and change our agricultural policies. and there is no soil without life; they are inseparable. the living beings make the soil alive. they make the difference between just a mass of mineral particles. yet we are destroying this life. we are destroying this life with overuse of hazardous pesticides, with overuse of nitrates or other synthetic fertilisers. protecting soil means protecting life. as a result of the political squabbling in the past we have lost the chance to have the legal framework for soil so far, but i hope that the times are changing. the planned revision of the soil thematic strategy from 2006 is a great and welcome step from the commission but it is not enough. it is our responsibility to correct the past mistakes and conserve the soil for future generations. we therefore call on the commission to work with the members states on closing the gaps in soil protection by proposing an eu-wide common legal framework, of course with the full respect of the subsidiarity principle, for the protection and suitable use of soil. a legal framework that will address all main soil threats, include criteria for its good status and measurable targets, clarify the responsibilities of stakeholders and last, but not least, ensure policy coherence, so the left hand knows what the right hand is doing. and often that is not happening. we believe that the overarching policy at eu level with clear definitions will not only bring many opportunities for landowners and ensure a well-functioning internal market, but most importantly it will ensure that there is life on the planet and there is food on our tables. so i would really like to ask the council if, in the context of the objectives of the eu on climate change and biodiversity, does the council overall support a common eu legal framework for soil protection at eu level and commit to prevent further degradation and to treating soil as a common resource and an ecosystem? and what actions is the council considering in order to facilitate a future eu legal framework for soil protection? and to the commission, what are the main challenges you see to adequate soil protection within the eu, and how would the challenges benefit from a common approach, noting also the private ownership of land? how do you plan to battle the loss of organic matter in soil, the degradation and desertification? will the commission propose new legislation on soil protection and its sustainable use? what elements would such legislation include? and is the commission planning to include financial instruments and technical support as part of its proposal? because it’s not only about telling the farmers, for example, but landowners in general, what to do, it’s also about giving them the proper tools and the means to deliver.
madam president, the conclusion of the trade agreement is great news for both the european union and the united kingdom. on the one hand, we have avoided a no-deal brexit and other economic damage, and we also have a framework for further trade and economic cooperation in the future. voluntary trade is always mutually beneficial. mutually beneficial cooperation is the future for the european union's relationship with the united kingdom in other areas, such as defence, security, research and development. the volume of trade in goods between the eu and the uk fell by tens of per cent after the new year and has not returned to its original levels to date. the priority should be to process the newly created bureaucracy as efficiently as possible, to make it manageable, so that trade can operate without unnecessary barriers. this should also be kept in mind at the end of this year, when companies will have to demonstrate compliance with the rules of origin. the european union could also demonstrate a little more flexibility in terms of rights to cross-border activities in the case of financial services for the united kingdom, for example passporting rights. easier access to financial services in the city of london is also of interest to many businesses and financial institutions in the european union.
mr. chairman, please. the best thing about this deal is that it's happening. otherwise we are now seeing day by day, week by week, month by month, the consequences of brexit: chaos at the border, lorries waiting for days, truck drivers telling us they are driving back empty for thousands because otherwise goods would rot. many have given up driving to the uk for the same reason. the shellfish rots in the harbours of scotland. hardcore brexit fishermen are complaining about their plight and berating the british government for lying to them. everywhere, businesses are in chaos, there's bureaucracy, extra costs, losses in the millions. and then there is northern ireland, where the situation is getting worse by the day as the consequences are becoming clear to the parties. unfortunately, it is again the story of a tragedy all too expected. i would appeal again to those forces in the british government who may still be receptive to reason: now deliver on the deal you have accepted yourselves! even though we all - and you all - i must admit that what we say yes to is so much inferior to what we came from.
mr president, with just a few days before the end of a provisional application we stand for a milestone decision. the adoption of the unprecedented trade agreement between the eu and the uk will mark the end of the brexit negotiations and provide legal certainty. i warmly thank our chief negotiator, michel barnier, and his team for their hard work during the endless rounds of negotiations, and i thank our european parliament’s uk coordination group, headed by afet chair, david mcallister, in assuring a continued representation of our interests. it is paramount that also after the adoption of the agreement, this close engagement of the european parliament remains. we insist on a key role in monitoring and scrutinising the proper implementation of the agreement. parliament should be involved when important decisions concerning union actions under the agreement are made. unfortunately, the agreement is not exhaustive; it lacks content on foreign policy and security cooperation. as a former student in london, i deeply regret the decision of the uk to leave the erasmus+ programme. i call on the uk to reconsider its position and rejoin the programme in the future. finally, i left london in the year that the good friday agreement entered into force. personally i know how peace and stability can be fragile if international agreements are not respected. we, in the european parliament, will be vigilant.
mr president, brexit is a reality. i regret that the united kingdom has left the european union. june will mark five years since the fateful referendum. it's a historic mistake, but we respect the british decision. the exit was anything but smooth. michel barnier has done an outstanding job, but unfortunately we have also witnessed a number of shocks in the meantime, which have also seriously shaken mutual trust. this is also the case with the decision by london to require a more expensive work visa for nationals of five member states than for the other 22, including slovenia. that's discriminatory. this is a measure that does not contribute to good relations between people and i strongly condemn it. i call on london to reverse its decision and i expect support from the commission and other countries. i therefore call on my colleagues to support amendment no 21 to the resolution. the last five years have been marked by arduous negotiations, with numerous trade barriers between us. due to london's demands, there will be no key law enforcement data exchanges within europol, the uk has left erasmus+, and so on. we're seeing violence in northern ireland over brexit, and scotland is announcing a new referendum. i call on prime minister johnson not to foment conflict, and i say to the british people: you are part of europe, we must restore trust. every divorce is painful, but you're not alone.
mr president, i think everybody wants the eu-uk trade to flourish despite all the red tape and bureaucracy created by hard brexit, but there’s one thing which is more important than trade, and that is of course peace and stability on the island of ireland. during the brexit negotiations the eu has repeatedly placed emphasis on the need to protect the good friday agreement, and to the credit of michel barnier and eu negotiators, the protocol in ireland and northern ireland has actually achieved the crucial goal of avoiding a hard border on the island. but today we’re in a situation where the uk government refuses to implement the protocol despite voluntarily signing up to it a year ago. and now the eu is right to demand that, for once, the brexiteers actually honour what they have promised, and if they don’t then boris johnson and their company should be ready to face the consequences of violating international law.
mr. chairman, today we close a special chapter in european integration called brexit. the new trade and cooperation agreement between the union and the united kingdom that we are agreeing today in this house is not ideal. it lacks several important areas of cooperation, but ensures at least a standard level of social and environmental rights. our citizens, and the british people, deserve better, but the government in london wanted brexit at all costs. i am personally disappointed by the attitude of london, which has already violated both the previous brexit agreement and the protocol on northern ireland. we must therefore ensure that this agreement is applied fairly by both parties as soon as it has been ratified. this will be the responsibility of commissioner maros sefcovic in particular, who deserves to be thanked for his work in promoting the interests of citizens and the union as a whole. we have a lot to do to protect the rights of our citizens, both french fishermen and slovak students studying in britain who can no longer count on erasmus support. this trade and cooperation agreement (tca) includes a binding dispute settlement system. i would prefer it if we are not obliged to use it, but we can't hesitate if it's necessary.
mr president, we are again dealing with the subject of equal rights and values in the european parliament today. however, the reality in the european union is that in many member states, despite the existence of different plans, strategies or reports, several groups of the population suffer from inequalities or discrimination. i am especially sorry that so many innocent children are suffering. it is not enough to highlight european principles. the people of europe are waiting for real action. it is unacceptable that many suffer because of where they were born, their social status, their gender, or their race. it is unacceptable that entire communities or groups suffer because of differences. it's incomprehensible to me that in this age of modern technology, our education systems can't work with all children. it is unacceptable that in rich europe we have entire settlements or communities drinking from a stream in the 21st century. poor europeans are waiting for action. we must make every effort to put into practice the programme we are discussing today. our efforts will have a positive impact on ensuring equal rights and freedoms for all europeans in europe.
mr president, space is an area where we should try to be really competitive compared with other space powers, such as the americans, russians and chinese. this is why i fully support the new space programme and the investments in space technology data and services. this technology plays an important role in preserving european strategic interests and enhancing europe’s resilience. however, i am not fully satisfied with the final budget of eur 15 billion, which is eur 2 billion less compared with the ep position. the new space programme aims also to encourage scientific and technological progress and support the competitiveness and innovation capacity of the european space industry. i’m glad that we managed to include targets on climate spending and to address biodiversity. last but not least, i would also like to mention the militarisation of space, which is something that i’m not happy about and that we have to try to avoid. however, we need to discuss whether we are ready to face threats in space because our galileo and copernicus satellite systems are vulnerable and must be protected.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i cannot support this programme for the following reasons. the indicators measuring the success of this programme mostly do not measure the results and impacts, only outputs. the court of auditors stated that such indicators limit the evaluation of results and the effective targeting of funds to action producing added value for our citizens. the court of auditors said, i quote, it is essential to equip all programmes with a single strong performance framework that can be used consistently to monitor the effectiveness of eu spending. let me mention a couple of examples of bad indicators in the single market programme. for example, a number of smes receiving support or a number of companies supported having concluded business partnerships or a number of entrepreneurs benefiting from mentoring and mobility schemes. on the contrary, an example of a good result indicator that was proposed by the european parliament but not included in the final text, is time and cost reduction in setting up an sme. if we are not able to assess the results, i believe there are potential negative consequences such as distorting competition, if we provide funds only to the selected companies. without the ability to properly measure the results of the programme and to know the impact on competitiveness, i have decided not to support the single market programme.
mr president, it is well known that small and medium-sized enterprises have been severely affected by the pandemic in europe, as well as in slovakia and other national states. i stood here in this place in 2020, in mid-december, and i talked about the need to help small and medium-sized businesses both during the pandemic and after the pandemic. in particular, it is necessary to provide funding through grants, or five-year loans, as smes are not able to bear the financial burden of loans, but are also not able to bear the possible participation in loans. the european union claims that national states are not implementing the legislation on financial assistance adequately, and i do not agree with this. the slovak authorities have also provided information on the implementation of the new law on the state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty. i therefore welcome the consolidation of aid into one fund, as this can make life easier for smes in attracting funding, but also for startups, which without financial aid are not absolute (member of parliament interrupted)
madam president, we’re all seeing the light at the end of the pandemic tunnel because we’re all seeing that the vaccination is giving us hope that we can soon return to normality. the proposal for the digital green certificate should definitely assist us in the reopening of social and economic life and as such it is a good european solution that should be welcomed. what it cannot do, though, is divide europeans into different classes of citizens, which is why it’s absolutely crucial that there are several ways – and this is part of the proposal – of certifying that a person is covid-free. of course we should be aiming for a maximum vaccination rate but there will always be people who will not want or who cannot get vaccinated for medical reasons. they will have to be, and they must be, able to use test results, which should be affordable, or provide other proof of having overcome the virus in order to be able to travel. because now that we’re seeing the end of the pandemic tunnel, it is absolutely crucial that european citizens have equal opportunities to benefit from the reopening.
in writing. the introduction of a vaccine certificate of some kind, after a long period of restrictions, should have opened the way to the sea and to holidays this summer and made it easier for all our citizens to travel within the european union. however, the many unresolved issues surrounding this well-intentioned measure warn us that we need to mobilise quickly if we are to meet the high expectations created by the people. vaccination certificates should not discriminate against those who do not arrive in time for the summer but cannot or do not want to be vaccinated. the issue of recognition of vaccines outside the ema portfolio, such as sputnik v or sinopharm, also needs to be addressed, as it cannot happen that, for example, hungarians vaccinated with sputnik are not allowed to go on holiday while russian tourists are. a month before the start of the season, it is not even entirely certain that, following a possible agreement in the trilogue, the distribution of certificates will be ensured in the required time. pcr tests for covid-19 should remain an equivalent alternative to vaccination, which should be free of charge, as should vaccination, but also free of charge confirmation of antibodies from covid-19 disease that has already been passed. most importantly, however, the certificates cannot replace the passport and must be a temporary instrument to make it easier for citizens to travel throughout the european union and not to complicate it for anyone.
madam president, this is not mr. borrell's speech. this is not a statement from the european commission. this is a public statement by the president of the czech republic dated 25 april 2021, stating that there was no evidence to show that russian agents were present at the site of the explosions in the czech republic. a civilized legal society is characterized by the fact that clear and unmistakable evidence must be produced of any guilt. such evidence, according to the czech side, had not yet been produced. in my opinion, what's happening here today is a judge-lynch. it's a lynching of russophobes with the support of the united states of america without any evidence. and as for mr. navalny, have either of you seen the verdict that found mr. navalny guilty? is it a criminal offense, a property offense, or a political offense? no, we're not showing the verdict. we're not sheep here, without judgment. show the verdict, we will judge. i was a judge for 37 years in the slovak republic. without evidence, without seeing the evidence, i would never have dared, and no civilized man would dare, to do this. it's not right. the right thing is for europe to be united, for europe to debate, for europe to conduct a dialogue, and not a russophobic history. that's all i have to say.
madam president, in this house we do not always all see eye-to-eye on russia policy, and that is alright in a democratic parliament, but the resolution that we debate today demonstrates how strongly united we are in the basic defence of the eu’s values and interests. why can’t member states show the same level of agreement? the battles over having a good russia policy will be won or lost in the national capitals, and i would say: let’s stop saying that the eu is failing when the national capitals are failing all of us. speaking here as a german mep, i say it’s also the fault of my own government that the eu looks weak. how can you allow holding on to nord stream 2 when you see how this divides our nations and benefits putin’s aggression? we will be weak in dealing with strongmen until our governments understand three things: eu unity must prevail; short-term economic greed doesn’t pay off; and timidity in defending our values will be costly.
madam president, please! this is our next discussion about russia. the facts are overwhelming and clearly show what kind of regime we are dealing with: it does not hesitate to support acts of terror and murder also within the union and it seems that there should be no doubt or division between us when it comes to assessing today's russia. meanwhile, the government of the union's largest member state, the supposed champion of liberal democracy, so eager to lecture others, continues to support an investment that will mean billions of euros a year for putin's regime. nord stream 2 is a political project, and even a geopolitical project, not only of russia, but unfortunately also of germany, and therefore we should debate maybe not only about russia. this anti-european investment, if completed, will remain a symbol of the discrepancy between declarations and deeds. to put it simply, it will be a monument to hypocrisy and evil intent.
madam president, mr. high representative, ladies and gentlemen, with that level of potassium in my blood, i should be either in the intensive care unit or in a coffin. but they can't fool me that easily. after the novichok, potassium doesn't scare me; so said russia's most famous opposition figure, alexei navalny, a few days ago. to convince the russian authorities to allow a medical visit by civilian doctors, it took a hunger strike, the mobilization of the international community and thousands of people taking to the streets, 1900 of whom were arrested during the demonstrations. navalny is better now but his persecution is certainly not over. navalny is a person whom over the years, regardless of one's own political views, we have come to know and appreciate, who has spoken openly in this parliament, calling for tough sanctions against the russian oligarchs and who was not afraid to return to his homeland, knowing full well that his fate would be unjust imprisonment. i want to draw attention once again to this brave man whom we cannot, must not abandon. politics is not just about big geostrategic issues, and sometimes it takes a human face to remind us of that, that of alexei navalny. and it is on that very face that we want to see shine again, very soon, the smile that only a free man can have.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, i am naturally not able to cover in one and a half minutes all the aggressive measures that russia has long been taking against the eu countries and our partners. i want to emphasize that i speak on behalf of my two colleagues from our european candidate, lujko niedermayer and jiří pospíšil. just a quick list of russia's aggressive practices: illegal occupation of crimea and oppression of its population, incitement of riots and armed actions in eastern ukraine, disinformation campaigns and practices in so-called hybrid warfare, financial support of a number of radical political parties across europe. in the case of alexei navalny: trampling on binding decisions of the international european court of human rights in strasbourg, which russia has committed to uphold. and of course, not least, the explosion of the wiltshire site in the czech republic and possibly in bulgaria with many dead. our action must be decisive! we don't want to cause unnecessary conflict or war. we want friendly relations with russia, but the other side must want it too. i fully support the demands of our joint resolution and i am grateful that the resolution mentions the suffering to which thousands of people in wallachia have been subjected around the vrbětic site. it is essential for our country, citizens and the municipalities of wallachia that the attacks of the russian federation, whether here or if proven in bulgaria or any other country, be duly punished, condemned at the international level and russia be ordered to pay all the damages caused. i want to thank all our allies, colleagues, the slovaks, the latvians, the estonians and all the eu and nato countries and other countries for their expressions of solidarity and clear message of unacceptability of russian aggressive actions.
madam president, developments over the past few weeks have indeed painted a very grim picture of eu—russia relations. and the reason for that is pretty obvious: it’s moscow’s increasingly aggressive behaviour and actions both at home and, in fact, in europe, from russian spies blowing up european military infrastructure, killing people in the process, to the brutal repression of alexei navalny or war games at ukraine’s border. all of this must be met with a firm european response, and the most effective way to defend our interests and values is, obviously, to do it together. therefore, i am hopeful that more eu member states will demonstrate concrete solidarity with czechia by expelling russian diplomats in a coordinated fashion, as we did after the skripal affair. i would also say that i’m proud that my country, slovakia, was the first to do so, attesting to the special relationship between slovakia and czechia, because this is who we are – in a difficult spot we don’t leave our allies and partners by the wayside.
madam president, we all no doubt want good relations with russia. unfortunately, the sad reality today is that the kremlin is threatening peace and security in europe. russia continues to engage in subversive activities against our democratic states and our allies. the deadly activities of russian intelligence services in vrbĕtice, its military build—up on ukraine’s borders are just the latest destabilising steps taken by the kremlin. i believe in the importance of dialogue and diplomacy, but it’s time to stop using ‘dialogue’ as an excuse for inaction. the kremlin likes to talk about sovereignty, yet it is the kremlin that has no regard for the sovereignty of other states. the kremlin is worried about ‘coloured revolutions’, yet it is the kremlin which is undermining our democratic societies. the kremlin complains about a nato build—up, yet it is the kremlin whose troops are waging a conflict against ukraine. that is why it is important that we show resolve: sanction those responsible for human rights abuses and adopt a corruption component of the eu magnitsky act. and we need to end the nord stream 2 project, support the territorial integrity of our partners, and uphold our defence spending pledges. we should also not forget about the other russia – people who want to live in a free, prosperous and democratic russia – because they are true patriots and our natural partners.
madam president, i speak here today as somebody who was born in czechoslovakia, and as somebody who is a convinced european, and somebody who believes in strong transatlantic cooperation. i want to appeal to all of our partners across the european union – but also in nato – for solidarity with and support for our czech friends, and with the czech republic. central europe has for a long time been at the centre of russia’s – the kremlin’s – attention, and this is not just for nostalgic reasons longing for the power that has been lost in the region, but really for the reasons of trying to get the power back. and we need to stand up – stand up when a member state is attacked, and we need to stand up in a united way. russia is not doing this in an isolated incident. the attack from seven years ago is part of a pattern we have watched from moscow. moscow has attacked georgia, it has attacked ukraine, and it attacks all of us across europe by spreading disinformation and false narratives, it’s attacking us by using the sputnik v vaccine, and we really have to take these attacks seriously. it is not by chance that the czech republic has been attacked. and i should really like to appeal to all of us to surprise russia with united action, with a strong resolve, and with real solidarity: solidarity with czech friends, with ukraine, and with all of those who are under constant attack by moscow.
author. – madam president, 18 million children in the european union live in poverty. that’s 22%. we need to give to these figures the real faces of children who struggle in poverty. a few years ago, as a journalist, i covered a story about a young mother, blažena, and her son andrej from a very poor roma community, sása lomno. this is a segregated settlement ten kilometres away from the nearest village on the top of a mountain with no road. when we entered the settlement, we asked for blažena and her son andrej, and the locals instructed us, ‘there, by the shed where the two kids froze last winter. you have to turn to the right’. andrej was born with glaucoma. this is an eye disease that can be treated only on a regular basis. when i interviewed the doctor, she told me, ‘you know gypsies, they do not treat their children as we do ours. i told the mother to come on a regular basis, and she did not. the authorities should be taking their children away from them. they are not good parents.’ but was blažena really to blame for her son going blind? she lived in a forest 20 kilometres away from the doctor and five kilometres away from the nearest bus stop. she did not have the money for travelling costs, nor the strength to carry her son all the way through the woods. could she get a job? i suppose, in a very romantic world, she could – but who would hire a poorly educated roma mother of a blind boy living in a forest? no public water, no central heating, no electricity, no gas, no hope, nothing. in sása lomno there is no educational facility for children with special needs, and the nearest special school is 20 kilometres away. no education, no health care, no future. andrej is a perfect picture of a child that needs our attention. there is a serious concern that it will be too tempting for the member states to focus rather on low—hanging fruit, to meet the superficial quantity indicators in the implementation of the european child guarantee. we have to focus more on quality than on quantity indicators. we have to ask the right questions. who are these children that we help through the child guarantee? how was their life before and how did it improve? first, we need robust data at national level to identify the children in need, and these data cannot avoid children like andrej. only when we know our national target groups can we come up with meaningful projects. secondly, we need a horizontal approach in national governments. we ought to get rid of resortism and we have to take on board municipalities and the ngos. every euro from the european social fund plus (esf+) or the nextgenerationeu fund that is reserved for the child guarantee has to be spent effectively to help children in need. thirdly, the only sustainable way to pull children out of poverty is by helping their parents. they need job opportunities and a way out of the vicious circle. now, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (empl), i have several oral questions, firstly to the commission, on the effective use of the eu funds for the implementation of the child guarantee, on the reduction of educational inequalities deepened by the pandemic, and on the inclusive approach to tackling child poverty. secondly, to the council: how to meet the 2030 targets to lift five million children out of poverty, including policies in the fields that are covered by the guarantee, on the effective use of eu funds and the national resources for the guarantee, and, finally, on the monitoring of national policies. i am very much looking forward to the debate.
mr president, latin america has some of the highest covid—19 death rates in the world. what is the reason? it’s not only because of the slow rollout of vaccinations. some politicians and human rights activists have focused especially on brazil and the incorrect handling, or mishandling, of the crisis by president bolsonaro. yes, his errors are enormous and hundreds of thousands of brazilians have died, but we can’t forget that the region as a whole is facing a humanitarian crisis caused by the continuing inequality in income, healthcare, and in general by political instability, social unrest and corruption. don’t forget about the informal workers who have only little access to social protection and are not able to follow quarantine if they have to continue to work daily to earn their living. covid—19 started as a health crisis but turned into a humanitarian one. the leaders of latin america promised to invest in social protection, but this was not fully transmitted into the proper actions. i hope this is not only my impression, but the region of latin america was a bit overlooked in global health initiatives. that means that there is good space for the european union to launch proper activities in order to help the suffering people of latin america, such as providing more vaccines for the less wealthy countries.
mr. chairman, please! the digital europe programme is the first european union programme to comprehensively cover the issues of digitalisation and to treat digitalisation as a horizontal phenomenon. it will certainly increase europe's capabilities in large-scale computing, artificial intelligence, cybersecurity and advanced digital skills, and their widespread application in the economy and society. however, we must ensure that all regions and all social strata are digitised. the covid-19 pandemic has made that distinction very clear. in some countries, as many as 32% of pupils were not in education. therefore, it is important to adopt national reconstruction plans that will help accelerate digitization, because at least 20% of the expenditure from the national reconstruction plans must be allocated to strengthening digital potential, so i appeal to the total polish opposition from the ppe to support this program.
mr president, the whole s&d group and i are standing strongly behind enforcing european capacities on key technologies. we need this programme – digital europe – to help us to compete on super computing, artificial intelligence, cybersecurity and skills, and to fight against the digital divide and help smes to get on board in digitalisation. this programme closely links to the european data strategy and, with the governance act, the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) is currently working on the framework of how to enable european datashare, bringing data out of the silos for smes and the public sector so as to innovate and benefit from the data economy. the european data strategy builds on the data spaces that help and link ecosystem and environment to help intensify data sharing, help interoperability and ensure a level playing field. this programme is planned to finance data spaces as the commission communication has promised. we need to see this finance happen to enable the data economy.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am truly grateful for the support for the digital europe programme expressed by the european parliament, not only during this debate but throughout the negotiations. i have taken very good note of your important comments today, from the importance of smes to the need to provide adequate training for the next generation, and from the urgency of addressing the challenges of cybersecurity to the potential offered by the twin transition towards a more digital and green europe. let me say once again that for the commission, this programme is essential to deliver on the vision for the digital decade, on the twin green and digital transitions and on the digital sovereignty of the union. as i mentioned in my introduction, we have mobilised unprecedented resources for the digital transition. the digital programme, underpinned by the national recovery and resilience plans, with 20% of funds reserved for digital, will play a catalytic role. this is a historic opportunity for all member states and for all of us. we have to address gaps in the identified critical capacities and critical technologies and support an interconnected, interoperable and secure single market. next week, the commission will present an update of our industrial strategy with an assessment of our strategic dependences. the digital europe programme will be a central point of gravity for developing key digital projects across the single market and an important source of funding. i believe we are fully equipped and ready to engage in this digital decade journey and to start this ambitious digital europe programme.
the debate is closed. i would like to inform you that no proposal to reject the council's position has been tabled and no amendments have been tabled under articles 67 and 68 of the csf. the council's position is therefore approved and the proposed legislative act is therefore adopted. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading on the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the programme for environment and climate action (life) and repealing regulation (eu) no 1293/2013 (06077/1/2020 c9-0110/2021 2018/0209cod)) (rapporteur: nils torvalds) (a9-0130/2021).
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the life programme is the only eu fund specifically dedicated to the environment and climate. it is also a program that differs from the usual in many other respects. in some ways, eu programmes are a bit like the elephant that enters the china pot and turns around: the intention is usually the best, but when the elephant turns around, it can often get a bit crowded, especially for small countries. the life programme aims to finance projects dealing with nature, biodiversity, environmental policy, information and communication, you name it and there it is. and the beauty of the life program is that you can scale up and scale down; you can organize all kinds of organizations around it. it's a program that brings people together. the life programme is designed to contribute to small-scale innovation and to fill a niche between research and large-scale eu implementation. from this year onwards, the energy efficiency and renewable energy project will also be available and able to be financed under life. but life is also a different program in other respects. in the ordinary course of events, eu programmes are something beyond the reach of the citizen. she or he sees it as a big sign, for example, on the helsinki-tobo highway. it says that it has been financed with eu money and the citizen immediately says: that's not entirely true. it's my money that we've sent through the taxpayers to the eu, and then the eu comes back and pretends that they paid for this. life follows a slightly different logic. it is the citizens who can be involved, and this is perhaps particularly important from the point of view of legitimacy. instead of the reaction, "this is just me sending the money to", we get the other reaction, "this is something i helped build myself". all citizens can therefore be involved in this work for the environment and our common climate goals. i would like to draw attention to my predecessor as coordinator of the committee on the environment, mr gerben-jan gerbrandy. he was passionate about this project and he was also the first speaker of the program. i would also like to mention my friend fredrick federley and thank him for his extraordinary work. the majority of the negotiations were already conducted during the previous mandate. my task will be simply to complete the tripartite dialogue and then to take credit for the work done by my colleagues. unfortunately, we didn't get all the budget increases we wanted, but we're pretty confident that life in the next round will prove to be the success we've always believed in and that therefore more money will come in. i would now like to add two more thanks. the first, of course, is my extraordinary shadow speech. but the second part goes to the german presidency, and i should probably try to say it in german. we are not always so zufrieden with what the council has to offer. but this time it's different. the german embassy came in for the last trilog, and we had it in five minutes. this was not the usual 'why is it easy to make, when you can make it so complicated', this was a very accurate and good work also by the council.
i would like to thank mr torvalds. i must congratulate you on your excellent german. i'm a long way from speaking swedish that well.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to warmly thank the rapporteur, mr torvalds, as well as all shadow rapporteurs for their important work that led to the political agreement on the commission’s proposal last year in december. let me also sincerely thank the previous rapporteurs from the former meps, mr gerbrandy and mr federley, but also my predecessor, karmenu vella and his team, as well as all presidencies who have been involved in this file from the very beginning. they all have laid the foundations for this important compromise we were able to reach. discussions between the three institutions and with all actors involved were extremely constructive from the outset, thanks to the strong support for the life programme from all stakeholders. the agreement we reached is a balanced one, which the commission very much welcomes. launched in 1992, life has become a solid brand, with more than 5 000 projects now contributing across all member states to the development and implementation of eu policies for environment and climate. the new programme is a flexible tool. it will contribute to the european green deal and in particular to the biodiversity strategy to 2030, the zero pollution ambition for a toxic-free environment, the circular economy action plan and net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. the life programme is also part of the eu long-term budget and recovery plans which committed to spending 30% on climate action: a budget that will be the driver of sustainability. the substantial increase in the budget of the life programme is a recognition of its importance. over the next programing period, eur 3.5 billion are foreseen for environmental activities and 1.9 billion for climate action – which means eur 2 billion more than during the previous programing period, and it now also includes a clean energy sub-programme, which will increase capacity-building and reinforce the overall coherence of the programme. life will continue to act as the catalyst. it will stimulate the uptake of research results, support demonstration and assist with scaling-up and commercialisation. this includes some support to access to financial instruments. honourable members, for almost 30 years now life projects have been an inspiration to citizens, public bodies, industry and ngos. each life project means concrete action on the ground for more biodiversity, more synchroneity, less pollution, more climate action and for cleaner energy. we can all look forward to seeing the continuation of this success story over the next years and to being a part of life. thank you again for your support and thank you for your attention.
for the ppe group. mr president, the life programme is about protecting nature and saving species. more recently, its focus on the environment and climate protection has been extended to the clean energy transition. we're talking about a doubling of funding compared to last season. it's a positive move. however, i would like to stress that this is a reduction of eur 18 million compared to the commission's original proposal and a significantly lower funding than the one requested by the european parliament for the programme. in european terms and within the overall financial framework, €18 million is a relatively small amount, but not in the life programme. for almost the same amount, just under €17 million, slovakia is tackling the life integrated project completion of the natura 2000 network, which runs until 2030. for this relatively small money, life projects have to do relatively big things and, unfortunately, have to contend with other, and much more influential, european policies, which often jeopardise the project's objectives. the slovak integrated project for natura sites also covers the restoration of peatlands, the protection of forests and the improvement of the habitat status of highly endangered species such as the tetra, the deaf-mute and the swamp turtle. the deaf-mute is a species that has been exterminated in many places in slovakia by extensive forestry practices, which are still considered sustainable forest management. slovakia's inability or unwillingness to stop its population decline eventually led to the european commission taking us to court. the heavily subsidised planting of eucalyptus and pine trees in the spanish lynx habitat was one of the main reasons why the species was almost extinct. its population has been saved by a series of life projects implemented since 1994, which also combat the poorly-designed afforestation policy in the iberian peninsula. i am a big fan of life, i appreciate the work of the proposers, i admire the winning projects and the results achieved, but life projects alone cannot bring about systemic change. it would be helpful if other publicly funded sectoral policies took note of the fact that we are facing a climate crisis and a drastic loss of biodiversity and started to make a consistent contribution to improving this situation. it's a life.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i highly appreciate the outcome of the trilogue and i would like to thank the co—legislator and especially the rapporteur, nils torvalds, for the great work. life is a flagship programme for the environment. it is the only tiny part of our budget that is purely aimed at protecting biodiversity, climate and the transformation to the circular economy. as beautiful as the life programme is, it’s only a small part of the mff, and it’s clearly not enough to meet the commitment of spending 10% of the budget on biodiversity. that is why we need to ensure that, on the other part of the mff, we deliver on biodiversity, and also on other climate objectives, and of course deliver on the transition to the circular economy. but besides, policy incoherence, the threat to life is also the annual arbitrary budget cuts by the commission. these are unacceptable, and i expect the commission to finish with this practice. as the european parliament, we will watch closely.
madam president, the eu needs to boost its strategic resilience in the post—covid area and accelerate decarbonisation. we need to increase the share of renewables and invest our efforts in energy storage. renewable hydrogen, despite not yet being competitive, can play a vital role in eu decarbonisation. we voted for a clear commitment to phase out fossil fuels and it’s clear that green hydrogen has to be one of our priorities when investing in future clean energy. as member states are not in the same starting position, low—carbon hydrogen can also play a bridging role in their decarbonisation. the repurposing of existing gas pipelines for the transport and storage of hydrogen can be a relevant option, at least in certain energy-intensive sectors. therefore, a science—based assessment of the repurposing of existing infrastructure, as well as blending options, should be provided. green and digital transition will require huge investments and those shouldn’t only support a climate—neutral economy, but need to strengthen energy security, prevent energy poverty and secure the jobs of millions of european citizens, especially in the upcoming post—pandemic times.
in writing. by approving the just transition fund, we are finally giving a social dimension to our transition to a greener economy and the fight against climate change, as we cannot leave anyone behind in this challenging transformation, but financial support must also be given to the people and regions most affected by the negative consequences of the transformation. the final adoption of the necessary legislation is a great satisfaction for me, having worked on it as a shadow rapporteur in the committee on energy and industry. i am glad that not only the remuneration of those states that will make the fastest and most efficient progress in decarbonisation has been approved, but also my request that the money from the traditional structural funds not be spent on the activities of this fund, which would then be missing in other, less developed regions, i.e. that the money that upper nitra receives is not missing, for example, in the bansko-bistrična region. i am pleased that the money will not only go to support small and medium-sized enterprises, but that all investments must lead to job creation and that support will also go to the elderly and children in the most affected regions.
madam president, dear commissioner, the new eu industrial strategy is a key element of the upcoming recovery and needs to reflect on lessons learned from the covid pandemic in order to strengthen eu resilience and strategic autonomy. those should be our priorities on the pathway to reaching our climate and energy targets in our efforts to enable europe to remain a competitive power in this global world. in the updated industrial strategy, i welcome a distinction in two phases. first, the industrial recovery and then the reconstruction and transformation, and those are clearly linked together. industry contributes to more than 20% of eu economy and our goal should be to invest in environmentally sustainable activities and innovative start-ups, which also contribute to the twin transition. we already have good experience with launching new initiatives like battery alliance under the leadership of vice-president šefčovič, and this is the way to proceed further. more than 35 million jobs are directly affected and we must ensure that the green and digital transition is fair, socially just and ensure creation of sustainable jobs and provide adequate support for our workers.
in writing. turkey remains a candidate for eu membership and our nato ally. however, relations between turkey and the eu have deteriorated in recent years, and both sides have played a role in this. the eu gave turkey false hopes of a quick rapprochement, while some eu member states vetoed the negotiation of some of the negotiating clauses with turkey. this has caused disappointment in turkey, both in public opinion and among politicians. in recent years, however, turkey has unfortunately seen a decline in freedoms, which has strained relations. turkey has been and remains an important partner and neighbour for the eu. this is a matter of security, of economics, and of many other things. one of the most visible themes of recent times is cooperation in alleviating the refugee crisis. the eu must therefore also find ways to overcome the strains in its relations with turkey. also in view of turkey's membership of nato. one positive development would be the modernisation of the customs union, which has been discussed for some time. this would benefit both the eu and turkey and keep turkey economically and contractually linked to the eu. it is still possible to waive the visa requirement once the conditions are met. the abolition of visa requirements would in particular help to facilitate people-to-people contacts. the eu and the member states should strengthen dialogue and cooperation with turkey in the field of foreign and security policy. at the same time, we must be honest with turkey about the future status of the eu candidate country.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eu strategy for israel and palestine (2021/2700 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, for over a week we have been witnessing one of the worst upsurges in violence in israel and the occupied palestinian territory for many years. the grave escalation in and around gaza follows days of clashes in jerusalem, including haram al-sharif / temple mount. we are particularly dismayed at the large numbers of civilian deaths and injuries, including children, be it the result of israeli airstrikes in gaza or of indiscriminate rocket attacks launched from gaza. the fighting must stop. it must stop immediately. the high representative has been active in calling for restraint and responsible acting. he spoke with president abbas and with the israeli foreign minister gabi ashkenazi. he has also spoken with the foreign ministers of egypt, jordan and turkey, as well as yesterday with united states secretary of state antony blinken. the high representative is also working closely with member states. an extraordinary meeting of the foreign affairs ministers is happening right now. let us be very clear. the eu has condemned the indiscriminate launching of rockets towards israeli civilians. it is unacceptable and must stop. we understand israel is right to protect its civilian population. nevertheless, we expect its response to be proportionate, with maximum restraint in the use of force. the european union is working in every way it can to end the hostilities and to support the mediation efforts of the united nations, egypt and others. we will continue to work with all relevant parties and the international community, including through the quartet, as a matter of urgency. the un security council also held an important discussion on sunday where all council members agreed on the need to immediately end the violence. for everyone, the priority now must be immediate de-escalation in order to protect civilian lives. all sides must uphold international humanitarian law and provide for full humanitarian access, and all efforts should be directed at avoiding further civilian casualties and preventing the alarming loss of life we have seen thus far. the humanitarian consequences of this latest escalation have already been considerable. many of us have strong views on the proximate causes of this latest conflict. indeed, the events in jerusalem during the recent period of the muslim holy days have been alarming. we were deeply concerned by the clashes at haram al-sharif / temple mount. again, let us be clear: in a city that is home to the three monotheistic religions, all sides must uphold and fully respect the status quo of the holy sites. freedom of worship and peaceful freedom of assembly must be guaranteed. the situation with regard to the eviction of palestinian families in sheikh jarrah and other areas of east jerusalem also remains of serious concern. it is vital that israel does not allow them to be carried out. such actions are illegal in international law and only fuel tensions on the ground. all leaders continue to have a responsibility to act against extremists, against violence and incitement, and to do everything in their power to calm the situation. tragically, this is a cycle of violence that we have seen all too often. we need this to change. these latest events, including the situation in gaza, underline the urgent need to look beyond the current clashes and to restore the political horizon towards a negotiated two-state solution. the status quo in gaza in particular proves that the current situation is fundamentally unsustainable. i conclude, madam president, by saying that both palestinians and israelis alike deserve to live in safety and security, enjoying equal rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy. a new date for palestinian elections held across all of the palestinian territory, including in east jerusalem, must be set without delay. there is still time to de-escalate and to prevent further loss of lives. the violence must end right now.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the grave and ongoing escalation in israel and in the occupied palestinian territory, including the major upsurge in violence against israel and in and around gaza, is extremely worrying and must stop now. it has claimed the lives of so many innocent israeli and palestinian civilians, including children on both sides. the rocket attacks by the terror organisation hamas have no justification and put the lives of innocent people at great risk. they must stop immediately. israel has a right and israel has a duty to defend its citizens against terror attacks. i call on the israeli government to act with restraint and to do its utmost to avoid civilian casualties. as minister santos silva just underlined, the european union is actively engaged in diplomatic efforts to help defuse the violence. we should pursue close dialogue with the united states, but also with partners like egypt and jordan on an immediate and lasting ceasefire. meaningful direct negotiations between israel and the palestinians towards a long—lasting and fair agreement on the two—state solution based on the internationally agreed parameters need to restart. the european union and the united states should cooperate closely together in the middle east quartet to create the conditions for renewed confidence between the two negotiating parties. finally, let me be very clear. yes, one can criticise israel’s politics but there is no justification for anti—semitism, hatred and violence, not on this continent and not in the european union, which is committed to freedom of religion and human rights for all our citizens. anti—semitism in any form is unacceptable, anti—semitic violence must be punished with the full force of law.
the conflict between israel and palestine has exploded and the images are hallucinatory: the european union has a duty to help the victims of the war in afghanistan. we must fight harder than ever for a solution and contribute proactively to it ourselves, and that is why i first of all address this house, this parliament, because i also want to say this: this house has its camps, too. when will we agree on a resolution? mr. secretary, you know: as long as a people is occupied, resistance to it will continue. as long as a people is treated unfairly and unjustly, resistance will continue, and as long as parties are attacking each other, extremists are attacking each other, there can be no peace. this vicious circle of hatred and violence must be broken. and that's why i'm telling you very clearly: we have to work on a new oslo accord. because you know, yitzhak rabin, who was the originator of the first oslo accords, was murdered by an extremist, for the sake of a peace agreement. it's always extremists who blow up peace agreements, and they do it on both sides. i would like you, mr. secretary, to convey this message to our high representative borrell: the european union is not going to be able to do that. you have our support.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, again a violent escalation in the long and painful conflict between israel and palestine. this time the spark has been the threat of the eviction of palestinian families from east jerusalem. but what will be the next one? even if there is a ceasefire in gaza – which we call for – going back to the previous status, to business as usual, will only grant more instability because the real underlying problem is the deeply unjust situation on the ground, the situation that the international community largely refuses to recognise. and what about the eu? we have come to the sad point where nobody seriously expects anything consistent from us. we are not able to engage and lead, we simply hope others will do that. it’s far too difficult to get to a common position amongst eu members that goes beyond empty words or biased statements. and in spite of that, we need to press for a strategy that puts ending occupation and equal rights at the centre of a renewed agenda for peace. the eu might not be a diplomatic champion but it certainly has tools to exert leverage and help the parties move towards a fair and lasting settlement and we should use them.
madam president, let us see if we can get this hypocritical confusion out of the way: this is not a conflict, a war, between israel and palestine; it is a war between a democratic state, which is israel, and a terrorist organization, sponsored by the iranian regime, which controls the gaza strip and holds its population hostage, not only holds it hostage but also uses it as a human shield. thousands of rockets have been fired at israel: we all know perfectly well who started this story, as it always has been. there was a moment of hope: the abraham accords, israel being recognized by arab states... evidently, iran, through its armed arms of hamas and hezbollah, could not allow this to continue and has started this issue. there was also a dialogue being established with the government of lebanon. finally, a number of issues which lead us to reflect on what the european union has to do, and on this i agree with many colleagues, including those from other parts of the ideological spectrum: we have to collaborate, help, of course, to end this conflict, to pacify it as best we can, help in this, but not taking sides, as many are doing: we have to know clearly the reality of things and know what is happening - to know the reality of how hamas and other organisations use even the books of palestinian students, who must not remain hostages to this reality - and above all also, finally, as i echo my colleague david mcallister, also to put an end to the anti-semitism we are seeing in many parts of europe because of this.
madam president, ongoing political dynamics in palestine with postponed elections, and in israel with an inability to form a government, provide flammable ground for the escalation of the current crisis. we cannot stop emphasising the urgency for both sides to refrain from disguising their party political interest and from military actions that come with the biggest cost of human lives. palestinians’ right to self-determination requires intra-palestinian reconciliation and unity. long-overdue elections are a crucial step in this regard. as palestinian citizens make up 20% of israel’s population, the current crisis is very much also an internal crisis within israeli society. compromise, which by its nature cannot fulfil all of the expectations, is not a sign of weakness: quite the contrary. two independent, democratically-consolidated sovereign states that will allow peaceful and secure co—existence of citizens on both sides of the border should be a solution we need to continue pursuing.
madam president, this is indeed a tragically familiar pattern that we’re seeing: a new eruption of violence, civilians dying every day and the international community struggling to contain the conflict. now of course, europe should denounce and condemn hamas terrorism and should support israel’s right to self—defence in line with international law, but let’s also remember that israel is by far the stronger side militarily and politically, and that elicits a moral and political responsibility for the protection of lives and for de-escalation, because there is no military solution to the middle eastern conflict and there never will be. and there is no shortcut to peace and stability as some may have thought with the abraham accords, because these cycles of violence and terrorism will keep returning unless there is a just and lasting political settlement, one that addresses and alleviates the despair and suffering of the palestinians and also allows for a viable democratic palestinian state to coexist side by side with a secure israel.
madam president, minister, commissioner, we know that montenegro shares with us a history but also the future. we welcome the transition of government that was possible in the last year and that really shows that democracy is working in montenegro. but we also call on the current government to speed up the reforms, to implement not only economic reforms but also the political ones that are required to accomplish the principles of rule of law and fundamental rights, the independence of the judiciary and all the mechanisms necessary to fight corruption. we want to see montenegro as a partner, probably the front—runner of accession of the balkans. this is the message that we have to the people of montenegro. but don’t forget: you have to deliver and to deliver in the short run.
madam president, the people of montenegro deserve credible prospects for eu accession and they have my full support. but that ambition requires clear action from the country’s leadership, and now is the moment to set certain political differences aside and make the right choices in the interests of all montenegrins. because as the rapporteur rightly said, what truly improves everyday lives is clear rule of law, media freedom and anti-corruption reforms that only montenegro’s government can implement, and it must be free to do so without foreign interference. that is why the council and the commission must take decisive action to help montenegro combat russian and regional disinformation, to address china’s predatory lending practices, and acquire covid vaccines. especially now, we must stand side by side with the people of montenegro and with the entire western balkans on the path to a shared destiny as europeans.
madam president, first i want to express my condolences to all victims of covid-19 in montenegro, a country hit especially hard by the pandemic. in this context i commend the peaceful and orderly conduct of parliamentary elections last august. as chair of the european parliament delegation with montenegro, i was pleased to establish good channels of communication with prime minister zdravko krivokapić and speaker becic, whom i met online on their first working day in office in podgorica. let us speak openly then today. montenegro is at a crossroads. it has opened all negotiating chapters and closed three, but as a front-runner of the eu accession process, the country has been standing still for long months, and some actions by the new governing majority are raising important questions about montenegro’s geopolitical orientation. we should all pay attention to montenegro today. if this small country on the adriatic turns east, it could have far-reaching consequences for the european perspective of the western balkans. i am concerned about the adoption of the law on state prosecution services. it leaves an important space for the politicisation of montenegro’s justice. just like podgorica has maintained full alignment with eu foreign policy, it should follow all recommendations of the venice commission and european institutions. european path is not about partial measures and voluntary choices from a given menu. it is about full commitment and building of trust with european partners. important legislation on justice and citizenship must be passed with broad political and public support and according to european democratic standards and practices. we are all well aware that this is an undertaking that requires full political support across the political spectrum. this is why i also warn against parliamentary boycott. this is not a european way of solving political battles. let me just conclude. we in this parliament stand ready to support all genuine pro-eu reforms and work together with everyone who is seriously committed to making montenegro the 28th member state of the european union. (applause)
for the ecr group. mr president, the objective of the corporate tax reform should be to change the rules for the digital age, while ensuring that the benefits of tax competition are preserved. it is not true that corporate taxation is in crisis in 27 countries of the european union. it's only in crisis in some states. in slovakia, for example, the collection of this tax increased by 63 percent in nominal terms between 2011 and 2019, and gross domestic product increased by 36 percent in nominal terms during the same period. it is precisely tax competition that makes it possible to keep the tax system functioning, since it exposes its greatest shortcomings. the commission should therefore share best practices with the countries with the most advanced rules in the countries with the most problems.
madam president, it's important that people around the world are vaccinated as soon as possible. until a critical number of people are vaccinated, no one is vaccinated. this is a clear space for solidarity. but it should not be done by very rich countries taking away from private companies their hard-earned assets, like patents, but by buying vaccines from manufacturers and passing them cheaply, or for free, to very poor people in poor countries. if we decide to expropriate the patents without compensation, the vaccine for the next mutation of the virus may not be developed. if we want to increase the supply of vaccines, we have to be willing to pay more for them. a higher price for vaccines will mean a higher production. not an hour, not a week, but almost certainly a month, and for concrete, a few months. last but not least, we should not send such a negative signal about business and the market economy. the development of a coronavirus vaccine in less than a year is a great achievement, especially for the private sector, which few people believed in a year ago.
mr. president, protecting the taxpayers' money of the european union from being misused by the oligarchs must be our priority. however, existing mechanisms are clearly inadequate. control at national level is weak, at european level it takes an unreasonable amount of time. this is the state of affairs for those who use public money to expand their empires. this is also for the assistance of the national authorities. the problem is all the more pronounced when the highest political representation of an eu member state is in conflict of interest, and i therefore welcome the conclusion of the european commission's audit of 23 april this year, which clearly confirmed the conflict of interest of the prime minister of the czech republic and proposed a remedy to the situation. where enforcement of the law is weak, the system allows for the misuse of public funds. this concerns all levels of the public sphere, including important policies, agricultural and cohesion. we need to put in place an effective control system that is resistant to abuse by the political elite. we need to establish the same legal definition and uniform interpretation of conflict of interest at eu and member state level. at present, no eu legal standard obliges member states to publish the names of the final beneficiaries of grants. game theory is relentless in this. sooner or later, in any flock of pigeons, there will be a hawk who will exploit such rules to his advantage. a system that truly protects public finances will not tolerate such abuse.
mr president, commissioner, we all agree that taxpayers' money throughout the union must be used for its intended purpose and the european parliament is involved in protecting it. unfortunately, the way the world is, there's always been a drive to circumvent the rules and appropriate money that's not yours, and it doesn't escape even the biggest businessmen and top politicians. the case of czech prime minister andrej babiš is becoming such a case study. the european union has adopted several measures to combat the misuse of the european budget, firstly the financial regulation on conflicts of interest and then the regulation on conditionality of the use of the european budget. andrej babiš, as prime minister, has agreed to these measures. i'm sure you do. he certainly does not want his tax money, which is used by his companies that benefit from european funds, to be misused by another prime minister. however, when the commission identified his conflict of interest and invited him to suspend his business activities and thus end his conflict of interest, he did not do so. the european commission, even after the czech government's response, maintains its position on the conflict of interest of prime minister babiš. the european commission does not say that the czech republic has a conflict of interest. the conflict of interest is prime minister andrej babiš, who is holding our country hostage. in this context, i'm interested to know, commissioner, how you feel about the fact that the government is drafting the position paper for andrei babiš. is that an acceptable course of action? i would also like to support the idea that if we want to prevent misuse of funds in the future, we must channel the revenue from the common agricultural policy. it's a call to the council, please, for the council to respond.
mr president, the czech republic is not often among the countries we discuss here because of its particular problems. i am therefore very sorry that the government of andrej babiš is putting the czech republic in this position. i want to emphasize that we are not talking about the case of the evil brussels accusing our czech partners of something meaningless. on the contrary, we are talking about a very specific problem that can concern every european politician. there is a clear and direct conflict of interest here, the sole reason for which is the unfair business practices of the czech prime minister. politics in a democratic europe must not be the continuation of the business interests of selected individuals. this kind of behavior, this abuse of political power, we cannot tolerate in a society that is based on rules. a european partner and a responsible politician follows the rules and does not look for ways to circumvent them or to impose them on others. i thank from this place the many skilled czech officials, diplomats and everyone who does not shrink from protecting the interests of the czech republic and the european community. your work, ladies and gentlemen, for your country stands out particularly compared to the dishonest efforts of those who protect their positions of power and relationship with the sitting prime minister. i am very sorry that the specific conflict of interest of one politician has reached the stage where in the czech republic opponents are being abused, where my colleague tomáš zdechovský and his family are receiving unacceptable threats for their work. in europe, we have civilized ways of dealing with conflicts of interest. ladies and gentlemen, if prime minister babiš still feels that he is wrong, despite the credible opinion of experts, he can go to the european court of justice or he can simply resign from the role of politician.
madam president, only those who have experienced discrimination, attacks, stigmatisation, assault, simply because they have been labelled as different, inferior or inferior, can appreciate the european agency for fundamental rights the most. its work has become key to the development of effective policies to combat discrimination, racism, homophobia, xenophobia and inequalities at european as well as national level. fourteen years after the fra was established, we regret to say that the status of many individuals, groups, communities and minorities has deteriorated. it's easy to point the finger at a small ethnic group and say, "they're to blame". it is easy to blame other people for societal faults, injustices, or shortcomings. the covid-19 pandemic has shown and highlighted how fragile our society is, highlighting the gaps, inequalities, as well as the importance of protecting basic human rights. the results of the fra's high-quality analyses or research have become irreplaceable and still needed. i therefore fully support the european commission's proposal that the founding regulation of the european agency for human rights reflect current changes and bring them into line with the legal and institutional situation. the founding regulation should be reformatted in a clear manner, defining the agency's remit in such a way as to avoid any ambiguity, interpretation or limitation. i consider this to be key to the effective implementation of its mandate. in this context, i would like to call on the european council to adopt a decision to this effect as soon as possible.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me, first of all, thank the rapporteur mr doleschal as well as all the shadow rapporteurs for their work on this important file and for their spirit of compromise. i hope this spirit can also be maintained in the course of the upcoming interinstitutional negotiations. the aarhus convention links government accountability and environmental protection and thus goes to the heart of the relationship between people and governments. access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters are more important than ever. i’m therefore pleased to see the progress made by parliament on the commission’s proposal to revise the aarhus regulation. this week’s plenary vote is a key step in the legislative process. the timetable is very demanding and swift progress is essential. we need to ensure that a political agreement on the legislative amendment can be reached on time, and ideally before the summer break, to allow us to present the results of the meeting of the parties to the aarhus convention in october 2021. this should bring a longstanding discussion on the eu’s compliance with the aarhus convention to an end. the amendments tabled today by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety are very ambitious. while the key objective is to accommodate all four key recommendations made by the compliance committee in its advice of 12 february, some amendments, however, go beyond the committee’s advice and address elements unrelated to the case that triggered the review of the aarhus regulation. as usual, at this stage of the legislative procedure, the commission reserves its position to take into account the outcome of parliament’s plenary vote, as well as the upcoming discussions in the council. we will then define our position for the trilogue negotiations at a later stage, once we know where both co-legislators stand so that we can play our role as honest broker in the most effective way. however, i want to share some comments and concerns with you already as regards a number of amendments proposed in your report, and draw your attention to their far-reaching implications. with such an important and complex file, we need to clearly understand the exact implications of the changes we propose, as some of them may significantly impact the eu institutions and the functioning of the whole eu legal order. we all agree that our goal is to ensure compliance with the eu’s international obligations under the aarhus convention. better engagement with the public is also essential to the success of the european green deal. if we want to deliver lasting change, the public needs to remain a driving force in the transition. across the eu, environmental non-governmental organisations (ngos) play a vital advocacy role, and as commissioner, i witness very directly the key role that ngos play every day when it comes to monitoring the good implementation of eu environmental law. under the commission’s original proposals, ngos would have even broader possibilities to exercise their role as watchdogs. acts on the eu institutions would be opened up for review under many policy areas, including the environment, transport infrastructure and major energy projects. the expansion would bring sweeping changes to the current system and new opportunities to hold the eu institutions to account. the importance of the proposed changes cannot be emphasised too highly. taken together with the priority actions outlined in the commission communication on access to justice in environmental matters, we are confident that these proposed changes by the commission, as long as they respect the features of the eu legal order, would be the best way to comply fully and effectively with the requirements of the aarhus convention. at the meeting of the parties in october, we must stand united. we must be able to show the progress we have achieved, but it will also be important to be firm where specificities and fundamental principles of the eu legal order need to be taken into account, and where, simply put, the aarhus regulation is not the right tool to bring about further change. in the interest of effective access to justice and of a timely and successful conclusion of our legislative negotiations, i am convinced that it will be important to focus on issues that have been raised by the compliance committee in its findings and advice, to consider and respect the specificities and fundamental principles of the eu legal order, and to remain realistic. this means to consider the practical implications and the feasibility and effectiveness of our proposals. let’s be very clear: in a european union with a population of almost 450 million, the practical consequences of opening up the review process, free of charge to each and every individual, are far-reaching. there is a genuine risk that the system will be unable to cope and that effective case handling becomes impossible. there is also a risk of not being able to establish clear, fair and non-discriminatory criteria to distinguish between those who should and those who should not have access to a review procedure, and the proposed use of delegated acts in this regard raises at least certain institutional and legal questions. i hope we can all agree that the eu institutions and the court of justice should not spend taxpayers’ money on dealing with huge numbers of inadmissible requests. they should focus on substance, but let me emphasise that this is more than just a legal or practical discussion. it is an extremely political one as well. as you know, the current budget does not allow an increase in the human resources of the commission. any reallocation of resources would only be possible from other parts of the commission, and any new tasks would require internal redeployments and the identification of negative priorities elsewhere. we have to take this constraint into account and avoid that this review has a negative impact on other tasks of the commission that are crucial to deliver on our joint priorities, and here i’m thinking of both policy-related tasks and horizontal tasks such as implementation and enforcement. this is not an easy file, but it is a very important one, and we have a shared responsibility to deliver. i am looking forward to continuing our joint work on this file so that together we can bring the revision of the aarhus regulation to a successful and timely conclusion. the commission stands ready to assist the co-legislators in this process. thank you very much for your attention.
the rapporteur of the committee on legal affairs. mr president, allow me to continue with my predecessors, whose words i agree with. first of all, i would like to say that there is a real need to harmonize the form of the regulation and the international treaties themselves. in short, there are certain gaps between what the aarhus convention says and what our regulation says as a source of european law, which applies this international treaty to european law. and that was the main philosophy of my deliberations as the rapporteur of the juri committee. i understand that environmental protection and, say, public access to the environment and the ability of the non-profit sector to intervene in administrative and other processes is a sensitive political issue. that's obvious, that's how i see it, and there may be different political views on how broad the public's rights should be in this area. but i, as rapporteur, have really focused on the legal side of the matter, that is to say the compatibility of the international treaty and the compatibility of the international treaty with our european regulation. and i am glad that this procedure, which was carried over after long debates in the juri committee, is in fact part of the juri committee's resolution. i am also pleased with the report voted by the envi committee, where the approach is similar, and as i have seen the work of both committees, i am convinced that a compromise can be found on the final text. i agree with most of the material and consider it to be of high quality.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european parliament's environment committee has just adopted the new climate protection law. the rapporteur is the next speaker, jytte guteland. we've decided that by 2030, we're going to cut 55 percent of co2 and other greenhouse gases -- and that's by 2030, which is nine years from now, more than we've done in the last 30 years. we need to invest in high-speed trains, for example, to reduce air traffic and reduce the need for air traffic. we need investment in wind farms and many other things. the commissioner said this last week in committee. there are sometimes conflicts of interest. not everything that sounds green at first glance can be implemented at the same time. if the planning for these projects, which we need to do to reduce co2 and other greenhouse gases, takes too long, then we will not reach the targets. the epp was therefore sceptical about some of the demands made by other groups. too many lawsuits are delaying necessary climate protection projects. but christian doleschal has drawn up a good compromise, and i listened very carefully to what the commissioner said, because it will not be the last compromise. we must also work out a compromise with the commission and the council at the end of the day. the epp therefore supports the text without amendments. i thank all those who have helped, especially the rapporteur, mr christian doleschal. he has really done a masterpiece here as a new member of parliament. thank you very much. i hope for a large majority in the vote tomorrow.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? it is indeed time that we, 20 years after we joined the aarhus convention, finally took steps to live up to our commitments. not only large companies, but also citizens, ngos and indigenous peoples must be given the opportunity to make their voices heard on environmental and climate issues in the eu. one example is the legal process that sami youth in sweden and families around europe have brought because they were directly affected by climate change. heatwaves, droughts or forest fires hit them directly, and they challenged previous eu climate targets. however, the eu court of justice did not hear the case. this proposal also provides individuals directly affected by environmental problems with access to justice and the opportunity to put pressure on the eu institutions. it's time to go. it is problematic that the eu today does not live up to its international conventions. given that the whole eu project is based on the principles of the rule of law, it is even worse that the fundamental right to a judicial remedy is not guaranteed. with the eu now world leader in environmental and climate issues, not least in terms of the green deal and the eu climate law, we must show that we ourselves live up to the international convention concerning the right to review environmental legislation. as the eu is now reshaping its environmental and climate policy in a more ambitious direction, the institutions must also follow suit. we cannot then continue to do what is directly contrary to our environmental laws, whether in the environmental field or not. it's time we showed once and for all that we live as we teach.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, first of all, let me thank the commission for its proposal, which brings us closer to where we need to be. secondly, i would like to thank all my colleagues who supported full compliance with our international obligations, and in particular the rapporteur for his good work in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi). i can reassure you that in the renew group we are committed to work in the same spirit of compromise, but we insist on bringing the eu into full compliance with the aarhus convention and all the advice of the compliance committee. the proposals from the envi committee are in line with the long—standing demands of this house for more transparency, better access to justice and respect for the rule of law. they are in line with our international commitments, and also with the eu treaties and the eu legal order. i encourage the member states to accept our proposals and the commission to be an honest broker and not a resistance fighter. by not improving access to review at eu level we risk fostering eurosceptic sentiments by making a clear statement that the eu institutions do not need to provide the same level of access to justice, and therefore public accountability, that is required of the eu member states, thereby reinforcing the image that the european commission is an unelected and unaccountable bureaucracy. the commission’s decisions on environmental matters, including on state aid, have to be challengeable before the eu courts if they are not in line with eu legislation – and not only because some international body tells us that, but because our accountability to citizens and our responsibility to prevent environmental damage is there. we are bound by the aarhus convention and we cannot say that the findings of the compliance committee are good only when they are not critical of the eu. we cannot cherry pick from our international commitments. i sincerely hope that, in october, we will show the other members of the convention that we have used the extra time they gave us in goodwill and did our homework. we cannot afford to repeat the failures of the past. i count on you, commissioner, and on the council that together we will improve the commission proposal as we suggest and bring the eu into full compliance with the aarhus convention.
madam president, fiscalis is a useful cooperation in the field of taxation, since it helps to detect tax fraud while respecting the tax sovereignty of the member states. we know from the data that some member states have more problems with tax fraud than others. for example, the differences in the relative vat gap vary between the best and worst performing countries by almost 50 times. fiscalis should therefore not be limited to the modernisation of tax administration and the detection of fraud. the programme also has the potential to be a tool for the exchange of best practices between member states. technological modernisation of the tax administration is only one side of the coin. technology is a tool, but the key to success is using it as efficiently as possible.
for the ppe group. madam president, on the one hand i am glad that we can debate this subject today. on the other hand, i am really frustrated that it ends, as it often does, with a debate without a resolution. last year, the european commission adopted a strategic 10-year framework, which the nation states are now working to translate into national roma inclusion strategies for the next decade. the past 10 years have shown that constant debate and empty ambition have not helped the roma communities. it is now that member states are developing their own strategies that we have been able to send a clear message in a crucial way that the situation requires not just words and ambition but real action. i am frustrated to say again and again that we have millions of roma in europe without drinking water, without sanitation, without education, without work, and unfortunately without the interest of politicians to really address this situation. i have tried, and i will always try, to ensure that this parliament not only debates this subject but also adopts real resolutions. many politicians in the member states, unfortunately also in this parliament, have their mouths full of what they would like to do to the poor, for the poor roma children, but in the end they behave like pharisees. do you really think, dear socialists, or dear liberals, that the roma children are not worth the resolution that we are accepting here by the millions, or even by the thousands? it is desirable to expect that an ambitious europe that cares about vulnerable or disabled people outside europe will also lend a helping hand to europe's roma. if we really want to change the situation in roma communities, we have to start with ourselves and move from ambition to action.
madam president, roma integration will only be successful if roma themselves are involved. it is not enough to educate roma, or to provide financial aid. the roma must feel that they are equal citizens of the union, citizens of the member state with equal rights, without any hidden trace of racism, xenophobia, which unfortunately still exists. there's only one man. skin is just a wrapper. only a man of rank can be a resource in solving problems. roma are not gypsies. roma are not gypsies, gypsies are not gypsies. they are a nation, an ethnic minority, and they have the only historical designation of roma, 3,000 years old. the european commission must make a strong effort to ensure that this name is codified as a historical name in each country. other names for most roma are derogatory, disrespectful. it offends them and excludes them from society. and if they feel excluded from society, they will not be willing to participate in improving their position.
mr president, it is important that we do not burden companies and citizens with unnecessary obligations. i therefore welcome the commission's working approach of not adding an additional administrative burden. but these rules will have to be followed. the commission should prepare an analysis each year to determine whether the overall burden on firms has indeed increased. of course, all these analyses should be made public. it is also important to retrospectively evaluate the legislation adopted so that it is not applied differently by different countries to the detriment of businesses and citizens, as sometimes happens. i think the commission should consider other instruments. for example, the use of sunset clauses, where there would be a certainty that the provisional measures would cease to apply after a certain period of time. and it would not be that companies still have to report something, even if it's already unnecessary.
mr president, european smes are facing a really serious insolvency risk, increased on average by 23% in the aftermath of the corona crisis. not all member states were able to use the european funds made available by the commission in a rapid and effective way. my country, slovakia, also could do much better. despite the fact we all believe in the ability of smes, the backbone of our economy, to adapt to new challenges, now is not only about restarting our economy and helping those who lost, but also supporting those who survived, to undergo the twin transition. the eu has to help them to build resilience. we need concrete actions in terms of effective and transparent regulations and to reduce administrative burdens in order to improve their competitiveness. we have to support creating sustainable jobs, reskilling and upskilling of workers and reducing social inequalities. twenty—five million european smes providing about 70% of jobs should get our support in order to allow them to benefit from a globally—integrated economy without undermining workers’ rights and social and health standards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. international trade in its current form also contributes significantly to the loss of biodiversity. this fact is confirmed by numerous studies. i therefore welcome the commission's recognition of this in its very ambitious biodiversity strategy. but what is sorely lacking, particularly in international trade, is that this insight is followed by concrete and effective action. it is not enough to aim at cautious adjustments to free trade agreements. the aim must be to change the international trading system in a way that is consistent with the interests of biodiversity. this means, for example, that trade in products that are proven to be harmful to biodiversity must be stopped. this also means that developing countries in particular need to be supported in any necessary restructuring of their agricultural, forestry or fisheries sectors. the recognition of the importance of biodiversity conservation must be followed by consistent action. this parliament has the opportunity tomorrow to take a first step by adopting the biodiversity report, but without diluting it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the fact is, we're using more and more land. it is also a fact that our land use needs to be better aligned with environmental and species protection. but to do that we must not treat farmers and forestry workers as a problem but as partners. central to this is a clear commitment to ownership. this must be the starting point of the european biodiversity strategy. the report of the environment committee unfortunately sounds more like we were trying to turn nature into a natural history museum. this has little to do with reality. first, management and biodiversity are not mutually exclusive - on the contrary. the traditional pond management model shows that both can be very beneficial when mutually agreed. secondly, land use is not only the basis of life in rural areas, but also makes an important contribution to climate protection through the production of food, materials and energy. the strategy should clearly recognise this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. biodiversity is the foundation of our life. everything that lives on this planet is ultimately a result of biodiversity and is a result of nature's ability to adapt and change. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. but agriculture - we should never forget this - is also a source of biodiversity; the common agricultural policy is also about supporting agriculture, which is also the source of biodiversity. what i find very surprising is that the commission's communication on biodiversity does not mention the problem of large predators. i think that people simply do not want to talk about this subject, or to keep it quiet, or worse, to talk about it in a nice way, but that is not the way to do justice to it. because there's not just wolves and bears. there is also the right of farmers and the right of the animals they keep.
mr president, i would like to thank you. europe must have more nature, because nature is being squeezed. species are dying off at a rate that is almost beyond comprehension. nature is dying out, and we need to do something about it. with the eu biodiversity strategy, we are actually setting out an ambitious plan for how to restore nature in europe. it needs to. more natural areas in the eu need to be protected so that we can have more insects and a more diverse plant life. but protection must not mean 'no access to nature', on the contrary. we must ensure responsible and sustainable access to protected natural areas, as we have seen for example in the municipality of kerteminde at the urup dam. but protected areas do not do it alone. we all have a responsibility. for example, agriculture must use far fewer pesticides than it does today. this is really important. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the new technologies. europe needs more nature.
mr. chairman, we're here today to take action. because nature is in trouble and we are with it. scientists warn that at the current rate of destruction and climate crisis, between a third and a half of all species will face extinction by the end of the century. our civilization would be the victim of this mass extinction. and extinction is forever. no, it's not just about robbing the amazon. in fact, in slovakia, more than half of the protected species are in poor condition. often because we're destroying their homes, their wilderness. we must leave room for wilderness, but also take sensitive care of the cultural landscape. in harmony with nature. we must act so that our children can experience the deaf, the red-eyed and the moron. to save life on this planet, including the one that the human eye cannot see. in the ground beneath our feet. in the soil that we kill with toxic pesticides, the same pesticides that kill pollinators, without which there would be no food on our tables. that is why we need a european law on soil protection. monitoring and binding targets for the protection of pollinators and a tenth of europe for wildlife, i.e. no intervention.
mr president, dear colleagues, from our position we usually try to strengthen cooperation and assume competence at eu level in areas where it brings added value. there is an area where we lack, where we are left to think that the eu has no role to speak and legislate on: the forest-related policies. amendments tabled to the report are asking for protection, the restoration of ecosystems – but not the forest ecosystems. we should not worry, because there are forestry experts who for centuries protect forest ecosystems and their biodiversity, miraculously integrating conflicting activities. in reality, however, we are losing forest biodiversity. we are transforming natural forests into fragile plantations, and we even dare to harvest wood in europe’s last primary and old growth forests, claiming that strict protection of less 3% of european forests is too much. impact of such claims are detrimental. dear colleagues, please vote in favour of the original paragraphs of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) report for the sake of forests and biodiversity.
mr president, it is more than symbolic that the decision on the covid passports, on the certificates that will allow us to return to freedom in europe, is being taken here in strasbourg. yes, europe is opening up. and this certificate will unite us as people, as europeans and as citizens, and anyone who says otherwise is not telling the truth. everyone can be found in it. vaccinated with a properly validated vaccine, properly tested, or people with antibodies to covid. everyone has a chance to be freer with a covid passport. the digital certificate for covid will bring us together as a community of european countries after months of pandemic. the pandemic has shown us in full bloom that europe is about values like freedom. the pandemic took our freedom, the european covid certificate gives it back. and it gives us back a functioning and stronger schengen. ladies and gentlemen, it is now important that the covid passport becomes a reality from day one. so that the governments of the member countries are ready to issue it early, not late summer. the covid passport is the path to freedom for every european. let's not let him down!
in writing. although we have managed to positively adjust several conditions of this step in the negotiation process between parliament and the governments of the member states in favour of our citizens, i myself cannot fully support the introduction of covid certificates for specific persistent reasons. while we claim that the alternative passes for free movement in the eu are vaccination and a certificate of cure or valid negative pcr or antigen tests, we have not guaranteed that their conditions are clear, the same and equivalent everywhere. while vaccination is free, testing does not have to be free, and we have no agreed upon uniform timelines for its validity. such facts not only reduce the added value of covid certificates, but also do not completely exclude the creation of at least partial economic or other discrimination against those who are not yet vaccinated or cannot, or are afraid to be vaccinated. to avoid disappointing the high expectations of the people, which are caused by politicians, the governments of all member states, including slovakia, must now quickly manage the process of putting these certificates into practice. on the contrary, they cannot afford to juggle the introduction of any additional border restrictions unless an urgent epidemiological situation requires it, the outbreaks of which they must inform in good time.
mr president, the plans for reconstruction are both an opportunity and a risk for the european union. i'm sure we just have a new debt together. the question is how it will be repaid in the future. either through higher taxes and the same gross domestic product or through additional growth. the financial crisis has shown that not all investments are good. we also know about bad investments that don't bring long-term improvements in quality of life, but only bubbles and the illusion of prosperity. whereas in the past, economic problems were caused by real estate and bond bubbles, this time, risk may be unwise and inefficient green and digital investments. it is essential that the main condition for the use of the resources of recovery plans is their efficiency in support of the maximum possible long-term economic growth. without strong growth, there will be no recovery, no resilience.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, mr borrell, dear colleagues, over the past year, previously unnoticed belarus has become the pan—european problem. in recent months, lukashenko has gravitated from authoritarian to dictatorial rule. he started from the brutal crackdown and imprisonment of peaceful protesters and currently holds all the belarusian people hostages within the borders of belarus. isolation of belarus, which neither belongs to the council of europe nor to the wto, continues. all political capital of lukashenko depends on deep integration with russia and putin’s considerations. lukashenko continues his terrorist-type games. first by launching the astravets nuclear power plant with disregard to the eu stress test recommendations. then by hijacking the commercial aircraft and kidnapping two of its passengers. currently, by facilitating the illegal migration of third-country nationals to lithuania and poland, as well as smuggling of cigarettes to the european union. we are unlikely to stop lukashenko and putin from violating sovereignty of belarus in attempts to form a so-called union state. but we must justify the expectations of the belarusian people towards the european union and contain the lukashenko regime by imposing broad sectorial sanctions. in addition, the european union should initiate and host a high-level conference on the future of democratic belarus, not only pledging, but providing real-time support to democratic civil society of belarus.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, in belarus alexander lukashenko, illegitimate illegal president of this country, increases his grip and violence against his own society almost every day. we see it with the reaction of people to atrocities: many are imprisoned, even trying to commit suicide or succeeding in doing this, like our colleague ashurak. unfortunately, this process is in continuation. we have to react to this. there is also an external factor to this, and we see collaboration between the other dictator, vladimir putin, and lukashenko in all of this. in particular my country, poland, and our neighbour, lithuania, are targets of what i clearly see as elements of hybrid warfare perpetrated by proxy, lukashenko against us. this airplane belonging to ryanair was from a formal point of view a polish airplane, and the other regular incident – provocation – was also against one of the opposition leaders in russia, but also in polish airplane. that means that we have to stay extremely vigilant, extending pressure on both lukashenko and putin to cooperate with the international community, with international society, abandoning aggressive behaviour. these are the only societies and these are the external neighbours.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the situation in belarus is escalating. how many people who are peacefully campaigning for democracy and new elections still have to be silenced, imprisoned or even tortured? my group strongly condemns the forced landing of the ryanair flight in minsk on 23 may and the arrest of roman protasevich and sofia sapega. obviously, the lukashenko government is using every means to eliminate critical voices - including from abroad. we call for the immediate release of roman protasevich and sofia sapega, as well as all journalists and political prisoners who have been arrested in connection with the protests. human rights, including freedom of the press and expression, the right to strike and freedom of assembly, must be fully respected and guaranteed in belarus a prerequisite for any neighbourhood policy, everywhere. and lukashenko has to understand that. his policies undermine the basic norms and values of belarusian society and its cohesion. and here, i think, is where we need to make a fresh start. we in the eu must also rethink our policy in this conflict. a fourth reversal of the sanctions spiral will hardly bring about any change in the situation in the country in the short and medium term, and it affects the entire population.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, "i am guilty, i plotted to overthrow lukashenko, but now i understand that aleksandr is doing the right thing and i respect that". what must have happened to him, what violence must have been inflicted on protasevich to utter these words on state tv? what do he and the 460 political prisoners in belarusian prisons suffer every day? ladies and gentlemen, the unacceptable hijacking of the athens-vilnius flight was not an act of strength on the part of the dictator lukashenko, but a sign of weakness, a desperate move which i hope and believe may mark the beginning of his political end. despite the brutal repression of belarusian society, brave men and women, who deserve my respect and support, do not seem to be resigned to his dictates. i therefore call on the council to adopt as soon as possible new deterrent sanctions which will affect the regime but not its people, and i fully endorse the statements made by president von der leyen and the aid plan which has been prepared to accompany a truly peaceful and democratic transition in the country. all the belarusians want is peace and freedom, and it is our moral duty as europeans to do everything possible to make their dream come true.
madam president, the people of belarus have been fighting for freedom for more than 300 days. three hundred days since the lukashenko regime has been using all its force against peaceful protesters and brutally persecuting those imprisoned. we saw it publicly in one case but it is happening to hundreds of innocent people every day. we all know that lukashenko forged the elections, committed crimes against his people and continues to torture, silence and repress those who seek democracy. the aircraft hijacking demonstrated that as long as there is one single dictator on earth we are all in danger and that we must show solidarity with the people of belarus. the eu response was quick, but more is needed. we have to broaden sanctions to include more of lukashenko’s circle and businesses to harm the regime, not the people. we have to cut all lukashenko’s funding, put belarus on the un security council agenda and also on the g7 agenda and do all we can to obtain the immediate release of political prisoners.
madam president, mr high representative, i can only support your efforts to sanction mr lukashenko's authoritarian regime. you also spoke about the future, the future of rebuilding this country, and it seems to me important to look to the future as well. and for this future, it will be necessary, of course, to prosecute the perpetrators of human rights violations, but also to make it known, to create this ad hoc tribunal and to collect evidence of human rights violations that are being committed today in the country. but, to return to the present, i wonder how to make medical access possible for people who are currently in prison. how to make it possible to access these people in prisons, because i think they are indeed victims of violations. they are also victims of torture. and here again, we'll need witnesses.
madam president, dear colleagues, it’s now been a year that belarusians have been peacefully demonstrating for change and as the lukashenko regime employs ever more violent tactics to suppress them, their struggle has become ever more legitimate, ever stronger, and their courage ever more admirable. but now, what is new, and what few of us have been expecting, is how much of a threat the regime in belarus would pose to european security and european citizens more broadly. obviously, with the hijacking and kidnapping of raman pratasevich, the dictatorship in belarus has demonstrated that it is not just illegitimate at home, but also unfit to command international recognition. the eu must do everything to sanction, isolate and deprive the oligarchs of their income, but without abandoning the belarussian people, because in their struggle for democracy and freedom, they are the quintessential europeans.
madam president, i really feel as if things were upside down. it is as if we forget that it is not the european union that makes the states, but the states that make the european union. states and citizens should dictate what the european union should look like, not the european union dictating to citizens how states should be formed. at this point, i think it is really necessary to take the side of poland and hungary, which have been wronged. the resolution or regulation on the budgetary conditionality regime is before the courts and is not yet legally binding. we also say from slovakia that if the european union continues to exert such great pressure and to escalate it, then countries like poland and hungary will only increase in the future. not because they're not democratic, but because they don't want the european union to dictate to them what it should look like. and more and more citizens do not want that, as the results of the latest eurobarometer show.
mr president, it’s now six months following the entry into force of the conditionality regulation and we are still yet to see any sign of concrete action and concrete sign that the commission is actually applying the law. this is rather disturbing given that in the meanwhile, the rule of law crisis rages on in countries like bulgaria, like poland or hungary. this is not the first time that the commission is dragging its feet when it comes to the rule of law, and we have seen little to no leadership, unfortunately, from president von der leyen on this question, and this attitude, unfortunately, lets down everyone who associates eu membership with the guarantee of a set of fundamental rights. the european parliament really cannot be an accomplice to indifference. and in the absence of a swift change of course, the parliament should be able to take the commission to court over its continued inaction on the conditionality regulation. there is really no other way. it is the law and we absolutely have to apply it to defend the fundamental rights and values that the european union is based on.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, in porto the committee on employment and social affairs sent a very clear message: the green and digital transition should further make our europe stronger, more social and more inclusive. so now it is time for the eu and the member states to take actions to meet the three main goals. first, we need more fair, sustainable jobs that provide security and preserve dignity. for this, we put in place the sure mechanism that was specifically designed to respond to the challenges presented by the coronavirus pandemic. the european globalisation adjustment fund will continue to support workers who have been substantially affected by globalisation or major financial crises like the pandemic. we called for a reinforced youth guarantee instrument with the objective of reducing long—term youth unemployment by at least 50% by the year 2030. second, we need to invest more in skills and future work. if we want to create long-lasting employment we must ensure that workers have the necessary skills to react to changes in the labour market and to bring forward the much-expected green and digital transition. so we call for investment in lifelong learning, upskilling and reskilling to adapt to the changes in the labour market. third, we need to reduce poverty and social exclusion. yesterday we voted on the european social fund+ regulation, which is the bedrock of support for social inclusion in europe. in our resolution on decent and affordable housing for all, we called for an eu goal to end homelessness by 2030. we called on member states to combat poverty and social exclusion by guaranteeing free access for children in need to key services such as early childhood education, healthcare and adequate housing. in the porto summit in the social commitment we called on the eu heads of state and government to set ambitious national targets to implement the 20 principles of the european pillar. so now we have the legislation, we have the financial means. now what we really need is just the genuine political will to turn social rights into reality for every single person in the eu.
mr. chairman, it is natural that in public life we face a higher level of criticism, pressure, negative reactions. we encounter these phenomena regularly here in the european parliament and take them as a natural part of our work. we need, and i welcome, a critical view of our work. but death threats and threats to relatives, sexist innuendo, or the sending of degrading images must never be accepted, condoned, or tolerated in our work. however, such practices are all too common and familiar to many female colleagues in politics, active journalists, television reporters and public speakers. many of them choose to leave politics or withdraw from public life because of bullying. and that's just because they're women. there are at least two ways to improve the space for women in politics. today, we are working in several committees of this parliament on legislative changes to heal our digital environment so that what is not allowed offline is not allowed online. many people mistakenly think that the internet is a free-for-all. we have to change that view. the second is to speak out about the issues that women face in public life. to speak up and to take action when we see behavior that is unacceptable. and it's important that we men speak up. how women feel online, ladies and gentlemen, is something that affects all of us.
madam president, in the eu we keep 300 million livestock in cages every year. three hundred million creatures without the ability to behave as they are born to. they're doomed to a life of stress with no escape. antimicrobial resistance and zoonotic diseases are associated with this breeding. in the eu we have the highest standards of animal welfare, but they are still not sufficient. we consider it a good standard to increase the size of the cage or transport. extensive scientific research demonstrates that cage-keeping is contrary to the welfare of farmed animals and that none of the cage systems that have been designed so far provide space to meet the ethological needs of farmed animals. the transition to cage-free farming is a fundamental change in animal production. with the right policy set-up and support for our farmers, it is sustainable and creates full-time jobs in the region. there are alternative systems. they're economically successful. cell-free, organic and sustainable agriculture is a system that we must promote as a matter of priority for the sake of animal health, human health and complementarity with the planet. this is what eu citizens want, what scientists say, what good practice shows. if science is the basis for policy decisions, the european union has a chance to be an inspiration for the whole world in the field of livestock farming and welfare, just as it is in the field of climate and biodiversity.
author. – mr president, let me start with a story. kate is an eight—year—old child with middle hard autistic spectrum disorder. kate’s mother is a hairdresser from a very small slovak village, and she is a single mother. when kate was two and a half, she was diagnosed with autism by a paediatrician. ‘so what do i do now?’ her mother asked. ‘so now you have to find a therapist’ the doctor said. ‘where?’ – ‘well, that i cannot tell you. there are none available in our district’. as kate’s mother was looking for help among doctors, one of them advised her ‘you know, in this country it is better to place autistic children in an orphanage’. the closest therapist was 90 kilometres away from kate. there was no pre—school facility in their district that would accept autistic kate. a retired neighbour took care of kate while her mother was working, so the family was very low on money. the income hardly covered the rent and the babysitting. when the therapist finally called after a year on a waiting list, anna had to refuse the therapies because she did not have money for that. so now kate is in a special school. her mother has to drive her 40 kilometres every single day, and kate does not thrive. she actually struggles. she struggles at school and she struggles at home and she will struggle for the rest of her life. this is the sad result of unavailable therapies and early childhood intervention services. sadly, this is a very common picture of the situation of a family with autistic children in many member states. autism is a very complex, lifelong disability. each affected person experiences it differently. an estimated five million people in europe are on the autism spectrum, facing a high level of discrimination in their daily lives. people on the autism spectrum, even those considered to be high—functioning, have poor employment outcomes. it is unacceptable that the estimated employment rates for people with autism in europe is less than 10%, far below the employment rate of persons with disabilities. they are highly exposed to the risk of poverty and social exclusion. so we need to act now. we need to ensure that people on the autism spectrum have quality and inclusive employment with equal pay as for persons without disabilities. it is their right. therefore, i ask the commission what it intends to do to improve the prospects for personal development and the employment outcomes of autistic people, specifically with regard to protection and the legal frameworks covering social security, working conditions, minimum wages and non—discrimination in institutions. what concrete measures does the commission propose in order to take into account the quality of life, diversity of the situation and the needs of persons on the autism spectrum and the effects of the pandemic and of the intersection or discrimination they face in their daily lives? reasonable accommodation is key both in education and training as well as in employment. we need modified recruitment procedures. we need autism awareness training for employers and co—workers. this is absolutely essential. however, the lack of disaggregated data is a barrier to developing and evaluating effective policies and improving their situation. until 2015, no data on autism was collected at eu level. eurostat has still no data on autism. how concretely will the commission improve and ensure the collection and monitoring of quality disaggregated data of the employment situation of autistic people, including those with co—occurring conditions, other disabilities and in institutions and sheltered settings ? all persons on the autism spectrum have equal rights in all fields of life, and they are entitled to rights to dignity, equal treatment, independent living, autonomy and full participation in our societies, respecting and valuing their input to the social and economic progress in the eu. however, regrettably, there are still many obstacles to overcome in order to make this a reality. it is absolutely high time to act now.
in writing. the adoption of the rules of operation of the three eu funds, which are also a major investment asset for slovakia, will allow everyone to focus even more on combating climate change, but also on creating new jobs and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, which is very important especially at the time of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. it will now be up to the slovak government to use the money offered effectively and as quickly as possible, which implies a great improvement in implementation capacities. slovakia has an unprecedented amount of money from the eu budget for the coming years to invest efficiently in both the completion of basic infrastructure such as motorways, roads, sewerage and water supply, but also in the sectors of the green and digital economy, which will finally move us forward. the positive impact of these investments must first be felt by our citizens. if the slovak government did not use the financial subsidies offered by the eu or spent them inefficiently, it would not only contribute to spoiling the positive image of the eu in the eyes of our citizens, but it would put slovakia on the periphery of developed europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have long called for regular reports from the european parliament on the rule of law in our member states. the first of these annual reports is finally available, but it is not exactly a cause for euphoria. the report addresses issues such as judicial systems, media freedom, corruption, checks and balances, but leaves out our values, democracy and fundamental rights. the report is also toothless, because it contains criticisms but no specific recommendations or deadlines. but we have enough knowledge. to finally stop the erosion of the rule of law and to reinforce democracy and fundamental rights, we must now use all the tools at our disposal. and so, with regard to mr michel and the member states, one single article 7 hearing in more than one and a half years - that is unacceptable! and with regard to mrs von der leyen and mr reynders, please stop hiding behind a report or any guidelines. apply the conditionality, the rule of law mechanism. the parallelism between the judiciary and the media, the waste of millions of taxpayers' money, the incitement against minorities - what more do you need to finally take responsibility for our democratic europe?
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for his great work on this very important file. i think this report of the parliament underlines – and rightly underlines – the urgency of eu action when it comes to defending our common values. both myself and my colleagues in parliament as a whole have consistently been calling for the creation of a comprehensive monitoring system that would encompass all european values, from democracy through rule of law to fundamental rights, as they have been jointly agreed and are a part of the eu treaties. mr commissioner, i hate to say we told you so, but today the omission of fundamental rights in this reporting is more glaring than ever. the commission is going to publish the next report basically next month. is it really reasonable for this report to say nothing about minority rights in the member states, while at this point the hungarian government is passing openly discriminatory laws? i think we all need to realise – and the commission and the council need to realise – that attacks on minorities, the undermining of judicial independence or media pluralism are interconnected, and they are part of a broader illiberal strategy by leaders like mr orbán and mr kaczyński. so there also needs to be a global and coordinated pushback and defence of these values because the eu’s response to what happens in hungary or in poland also shapes what is deemed acceptable not only by other member states, but also by countries outside the eu where the struggle for freedom and justice takes place every day. for its part, i have to say that parliament has charted a concrete path toward a legally—binding mechanism that would prevent the kind of inaction that we have witnessed in the council for the past 18 months. unfortunately, by refusing to open negotiations on agreement on this binding mechanism, the commission and the council are indeed selling short the protection of eu values. i would have to say that the case for adopting these proposals, and including fundamental rights, grows every day.
madam president, the rule of law is at the core of the european project. i therefore welcome the first rule of law report. this provides a good overview of a number of tasks – and, yes, problems – that we have to address in order to safeguard the rule of law in europe. there is one especially worrying issue, commissioner. free and independent media have been under increasing pressure across europe. we must pay systematic attention to the protection of journalists through anti—slapp legislation and by guaranteeing the safety and security of journalists. we must fully resolve the crimes committed against them and bring to justice all the perpetrators of the murders of ján kuciak and daphne caruana galizia. truth, facts and science are the basis of solid rule of law and sound democratic practice, and they must prevail in our public discourse too. we must devote greater support to financially stable and independent public media in member states. we must also adopt european measures against the spread of manipulative disinformation, which is increasingly capturing our information space. so, commissioner, i expect the commission to pay particular attention to the media sector and to lead a more structured and thorough public dialogue on the most pressing rule of law challenges when the next report is published. (applause)
mr president, your proposal calls on the member states to ensure that lgbt and 'gender indoctrination' is introduced from primary school without the parents' knowledge or even consent. you recommend that we allow for the irreversible sex-change surgery of minors and you want to cover it from the mandatory health insurance. in this report, you say that there may be pregnant men. you want the european union to find money to fund abortion campaigns, but not money to help women not have to have abortions, and on the contrary, you label campaigns that dissuade people, women from abortion or from sex change, as disinformation or even extremist speech. my fellow citizens, with all due respect, i must say from the bottom of my heart that i have never read a report so perverse in my life. this report doesn't belong in the legislature, it belongs in the trash.
mr. president, extremism has never done any good for humanity. there's bad right-wing extremism, there's bad left-wing extremism, there's bad conservative extremism and there's bad liberal extremism. fred matić's report is a product of liberal extremism, and therefore i cannot accept or support it. i respect the rights of women, of lgbt people, but most of all i respect the rights of the child, the right to his life, the right to a natural father and mother. the rights of parents to raise their children are irreplaceable. when it comes to their health, brussels can't decide whether they're going to be vaccinated or not, they have to decide that themselves. meps, friends, a child is not a commodity. a child is a human being. it is all.
mr president, commissioner, sexual and reproductive health and rights, as well as the rights of sexual minorities, have been harnessed by the global anti-gender lobby to advance their conservative agenda. they want to erase even the use of the term ‘gender’. a recent report called tip of the iceberg has traced a staggering usd 700 million in anti-gender funding over the 2009-2018 period originating from the united states, russia and europe. it’s disappointing that today in europe we need to fight for rights that we thought were already guaranteed. and they must be guaranteed for all, because if they are not guaranteed for some of us, they are going to be rolled back for all of us. and i still have the echo of the famous words by hillary clinton: ‘human rights are women’s rights and women’s rights are human rights’. let’s work on this basis together.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! we know that the issues we are discussing today are the responsibility of the member states, but that does not prevent us from addressing these socially important issues, thus sending a signal to women that we see their problems, we understand them, we support them. and i want to say to women from this place that we see that in many countries the situation of women is becoming more and more difficult. access to prenatal, in vitro, contraceptive and sexual education, and legal, accessible, legally permitted abortion. and that's what this report is about, not just abortion. i have a feeling some of you haven't read it. from this place, we see how many women in this difficult period, especially post-covid, have had and still have problems accessing doctors, preventive tests, early diagnosis, or modern cancer-fighting therapies. and we see how many, under the guise of conscience, deny women the right to an abortion, which is legal and acceptable in their country, to in vitro tests or to contraceptives. and i don't want mrs. wiśniewska to be ashamed of me, because i'm the one who's ashamed of her party and what it's doing to poland and polish women.
mr president, since the beginning of my mandate in the european parliament, i have consistently stressed that the agreed powers must be respected. the treaties clearly define which competences are shared at european union level and which are exclusively in the hands of the member states. but we are increasingly seeing efforts to push agreed boundaries. the matić report is a clear example of this. the european union has no competence in the field of sexual and reproductive health, which in itself means that if we respected the principle of subsidiarity, we would not have a report with such a title and subject on the agenda today. secondly, the european parliament has no mandate to assess, through its non-binding resolutions, the meaning of internationally agreed and recognised concepts such as human rights. and no international document establishes the right to abortion. this report therefore constitutes a clear and serious breach of eu competences and must be rejected.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0406 - c4-0177/97). the report is also misleading, because abortion is not a human right. that's the right to life. see article 2 of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. there is also a very one-sided criticism of conscientious objectors in the health care system who do not want to cooperate with an abortion. in fact, it is a step behind doctors and nurses who want to work very conscientiously. i also miss the hope and future of mothers in the member states who do give birth and do not have an abortion. and where's the chapter on fathers who also have a responsibility? in short, mr president, this report can go to the dustbin. it is a complete mystery to me how this came to be on the agenda.
mr president, there is unfortunately a lot of emotion and misinformation surrounding the matić report. i carefully read through four dozen pages of the report, which deals with sexual and reproductive rights. i do not agree with every sentence, but that is the case with many of the political reports we are voting on here. it therefore seems unfair to me to take words from the report and publicly shift their meaning out of the context of the whole text. hoax and intimidation of the european parliament are the most popular with those who want to destroy the european project. let's stick to the facts. the matić report does not violate subsidiarity. it is an extra-legislative report which cannot dictate to the state. but it sends an important political signal that women's rights are human rights and the dignity of each of us deserves respect and protection. i respect that some of us have a different opinion than i do on the issues in the report. but i think the dignity of women in health care, education about the serious issues of our lives, or the decent living conditions for girls and women, is something that is not up for discussion for me. it's obvious. my vote will therefore reflect that i want us to send a message that women deserve full respect and full opportunities, not just on select holidays, but throughout life.
madam president, the project of an ecologically clean and green europe must be supported by every reasonable person. it's a matter of life and health for future generations. however, we must not forget that the project must also take into account the possible social and economic impact on the population. the specificities of certain countries that are able or unable to draw on renewable energy sources need to be considered. it is very difficult to imagine that a citizen, for example in slovakia, but also in other specific countries, is satisfied with having a liter of clean water for lunch, breathing fresh air and warming up in the sun in winter. well, i guess that's not how it works. without achieving a 52.8% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, it is conceivable, and i would be happy if it could be achieved, but it will probably be a problem. the problem will be with resources and energy. but there's just no way to tell in one minute. that's longer.
i have to say, madam president, no, this climate change bill is not why fridays for future took to the streets. the law, watered down and weakened by the member states, is nowhere near the paris climate targets. this is not about playing with numbers, demanding a 65 percent reduction in co2 emissions by 2030. the eu is the world's third largest co2 emitter and to set itself a relaxed 52.8% reduction target is a slap in the face for all the countries already suffering from climate change. this climate protection law is not protecting the climate it's a fraudulent package. and let us instead fight for really determined goals: for the radical expansion of renewables, for a transport revolution and for an economy that has the courage to change. let us do this not only for ourselves but also for the next generation!
madam president, madam minister, vice-president timmermans, ladies and gentlemen, today we are taking a historic step which commits the european union, and ultimately our countries, to the collective target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030, with a reference year of 1990. it is indeed, vice-president timmermans, the law of laws and the european union is leading by example in the world. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we must reward those member states which are leading the way, such as my own country, greece, with additional resources and incentives to set an example for those economies which remain dependent on coal for longer. we must incentivise businesses to green their energy consumption and production by supporting research, innovation and the adoption of all available technologies that facilitate the reduction of carbon footprint, such as ccs/ccu. we must be bold and lead the world again, moving quickly with legislation that provides incentives for drastic methane reduction, energy, agriculture and waste management, as well as upgrading legislation on sustainable chemicals, encouraging industry without undermining its competitiveness. it is truly sad that our green colleagues do not support the outcome of the trilogue, given that they have been leading the global effort for all these years. the future has begun and it's time for all of us to take responsibility.
madam president, congratulations on the deal. yes, i would like to see a higher number, but as you said, frans, this is not even the end of the beginning. that’s why the summer package will be so important to create a fair business environment, to ensure a just transition, speed up innovation, and at the end i hope we can beat the target. but we also need to ensure that we don’t sacrifice biodiversity in the name of protecting the climate, because without nature, we cannot live – just as much as without climate. we need to get the accounting right in the rules here so we don’t create mystery numbers, but motivate farmers and foresters to farm carbon, protect biodiversity as well as soil. equally important will be the gas package in the winter, and methane especially, including putting the price on the methane emissions for the link to important gas and oil. coming from central europe, i often hear that we cannot do that. we had a head start with the collapse of the soviet regime. i think this is an opportunity to create fair, innovative, green and sustainable economies. we have to use this opportunity, especially in my region.
madam president, the climate bill that i welcome and that i will be voting for today is the framework for our climate ambitions. we have agreed to a 55% reduction in emissions, and i am glad that this is a much higher target than the one the eu was demanding two years ago. i'm glad our ambition is inspiring the world, but it's not enough to be ambitious, ambition has to be fulfilled. climate change is extremely real. we already know the vulnerable regions that climate change is fundamentally destabilizing: the sahel, syria, the mediterranean, the arctic. places that touch us deeply. we have to achieve carbon neutrality, we have to stabilize the climate. it's about nothing less than the survival and prosperity of our children and future generations. this will require the full commitment and coherence of all those involved. we can't vote today for this bill and vote the next day for continued fossil fuel subsidies. we need to ensure an efficient transition to renewable energy. we need to optimize consumption, we need to critically rethink and change our use of land, wetlands and forests. i'm optimistic, i believe that the actions that are being taken will bring real change, and our shared goal will not only be achieved, but surpassed in 2030. if our economy, industry, economy and society as a whole accept the critical need for a stable environment, we will move forward and find a way to operate in a way that is compatible with the planet, both in europe and globally. i consider this, in all seriousness, a critical prerequisite for our survival and the most important historical milestone for mankind.
for the ecr group. mr president, the commission's plan also calls for the european investment bank to contribute an additional 350 billion in new investments to climate objectives every year until 2030. however, green labelling is not enough to ensure a recovery. recovery requires that investments are productive, deliver long-term economic growth and deliver effectively on climate objectives. it is necessary that all eib investment objectives are subject to an independent value for money assessment. the union's 2030 targets may end up being worthless, as may the forgotten ambition to become the world's most competitive economy by 2010, with unnecessarily limited economic growth and unnecessarily expensive climate targets.
in writing. the adoption of the agreement on changes to the functioning of the connecting europe facility must give a new impetus to more efficient use of eu budget funds for infrastructure projects across europe, including slovakia. of the more than 30 billion envelopes, most will go to transport, less to energy and some to digitisation, i.e. areas in which huge investments need to be made throughout europe, but especially in countries like slovakia. the slovak government and the competent actors in slovakia must therefore ensure that the best possible quality of transport and energy interconnection projects with neighbouring countries is put forward, whether it is motorways or electricity interconnectors linking slovakia with poland, hungary or the czech republic. unlike conventional eifs, the use-or-lose principle also applies and therefore strengthening administrative capacity to draw on funds is absolutely necessary.
madam president, i welcome this debate with the high representative, but, frankly, i find it rather overdue. we are wagging the dog’s tail when it comes to effective and credible european action in fighting foreign interference and manipulative disinformation. our own institutions are raising red flags. last month, the european court of auditors published a special report on disinformation, which clearly states that our foreign service institutions are not ready to face the growing problem of malicious campaigns from abroad. mr borrell, it is high time to walk your own talk in the fight against targeted influence operations and massive disinformation. the pandemic, with its accompanying infodemic, has merely served as a wake—up call to the longstanding problem of the eu’s weak coordination, accountability and resources in the face of widespread and often very sophisticated foreign propaganda. mr high representative, the fight against disinformation must become a priority for the second part of your mandate, especially in relation to both russia and china, where most malign campaigns originate. the european union must focus on preventive measures. this means clear political responsibility and much better coordination of eu action against foreign interference and disinformation in the commission. it also means proper financial and personal resources in stratcom and more active and decisive engagement in the western balkans and eastern partnership, including support for independent and professional journalism and public broadcasters. mr borrell, i look forward to watching closely your action in our common struggle against those who want to destroy our european way of life.
madam president, this new sanctions regime is designed to enable the european union, following the example of the united states, to impose sanctions on designated representatives of foreign states. i ask you, colleagues, in this context, will this not only serve to increase pressure on the russian federation? isn't this just a tool to manipulate moscow in line with american geopolitical interests? and the european union will have the courage to apply the same standard to all those who violate human rights, whether it be saudi arabia or, for example, the conflict in palestine. i don't think it's right to try to export western-style democracy by force, even by unleashing military conflicts or unleashing a spiral of sanctions. let us instead concentrate on a constructive and balanced foreign policy, understanding and respecting the specificities of each country.
madam president, it is high time that the european union reinforced its foreign policy toolbox by stating very clearly that those responsible for human rights violations – but also economic and financial enablers of these abuses – have no place in doing business, travelling or using the european union in any way that benefits them. no bank accounts, no buying of apartments in our cities. our allies in the us, the uk and canada have already done so. it is high time we did so as well. further to these human rights violations, it is important that corruption, whether by officials, state entities, private individuals or organisations, is equally targeted by this european instrument. we cannot forget those who uncover these violations, and the eu needs to send a clear signal to human rights violators. we stand by those who shed light on these violations, and i reiterate the call for a protection mechanism to put in place for whistle—blowers and for investigative journalists covering these issues. finally, let me underline my expectation that countries aspiring to join the eu should adhere to the eu magnitsky act. this global human rights sanctions regime is an important step towards reinforcing the european way of life in wider europe too.
madam president, today's europe has two faces. on the one hand, we have information about how, for example, slovak citizens cannot get into their own country without vaccination or without having to pay for pcr tests, and on the other hand, we have information about how ships of foreign ngos rescue migrants in the mediterranean and bring them to the territory of the european union. yesterday alone, the ngo ocean viking brought 572 migrants into the european union. please, what kind of europe is this? what kind of countries are easier for an illegal immigrant from africa to get into than their own citizens? the 10 billion euros that the european union wants to allocate to the asylum and migration fund must be used 100% for the benefit of europeans and not for the benefit of foreign nationals.
madam president, schengen is a key pillar of the european project. a living space that has been put to the test in the last year and a half by a virus that knows no borders or rules and threatens not only human health but also the european way of life so closely linked to the freedom of movement for any of us. the european free movement area will only be rebuilt once we have overcome the pandemic. schengen will only be as strong as our collective fight against the next wave of covid is successful. yes, the european digital certificate is great news for freedom in the schengen area. but for it to work fully and be a real path to freedom in europe, we need to vaccinate much faster than we have done so far, especially in countries as essential to a functioning schengen as mine in slovakia, but also in all of central europe. disinformation about vaccines not only destroys people's health and lives, but also undermines the greatest achievements of the european project. yes, fighting the pandemic is also fighting for a full schengen. the sooner we realize this across europe, the sooner we have hope of returning to a safe and secure schengen. more than a year ago, we had no idea when borders in europe would be permanently reopened. today, thanks to vaccines, we know that the solution to free movement in europe is in our own hands. let's not let him take it.
mr president, the history of the countries of western europe is marked by colonialism, slavery, the great empires: the roman empire, the great german empire, the holocaust. the history of the countries of eastern europe and central europe, the history of the countries of the visegrad four, is marked by the struggle for the soul of the nation, for freedom, for independence, for its own traditions, for its own religion. and it seems to me that the european union is trying to take away from the eastern european countries their traditional values, their culture, their worldview, their soul. don't do that mr kaczyński and mr orbán are not xenophobes. they just present the soul of their nation, their traditions, their christian traditions, their religion. it has always been to the detriment of great empires, whether the roman empire, the great german empire or the habsburg monarchy, that individual states were given their own soul. let's not let that happen, because you don't want to decide that we in slovakia raise children the way brussels wants. we know how to raise children. we know how to relate to people of a different sexual orientation. don't take it from us, because it will have bad consequences. that's all i have to say.
i now come to the first round of voting today. the vote will be taken on the items on the agenda. the voting will be open from 1 p.m. to 2.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds will be used. all votes are by name and i declare the voting to be open. the results of the votes will be announced at 7 p.m.
we now continue our debate on the statements by the council and the commission (2021/2780 (rsp) and 2021/2789 (rsp)).
mr president, madam vice-president, the trouble with authoritarian politics is that without any pushback, it becomes ever and increasingly more brazen, and the eu has learned this lesson the hard way with viktor orbán. the last european council gave us hope that eu leaders may finally be waking up to this reality, and, of course, it’s a reality in which a member state government scapegoats vulnerable minorities just to cover up its corruption and state capture on an industrial scale. obviously, this pushback could have come and should have come much earlier. even today, there are still member state governments which are on the fence when it comes to discriminating against eu citizens in just such a systematic way. there are still no actions; nothing is happening beyond words and declarations. this is the moment which will define what the european union actually stands for: whether it stands for cowardice and hypocrisy, or whether it actually guarantees a life without discrimination for every one of its citizens.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, since the 1970s the european union has been setting environmental policy guidelines through environmental action programmes. these programmes have integrated positive considerations into key areas of environmental policy, such as biodiversity, climate or soils, but also trade policy or access to justice, among others. the social aspect must also be considered. all these issues require concrete measures and the parliament's position, which we are debating today, contributes to this. the positive elements which may result from this are in conflict with the neoliberal and mercantilist policies of the european union, which this proposal does not reject. this is exemplified by the perverse and ineffective market approaches that enshrine the right to pollute, such as emissions trading. many other examples could be recalled. a serious approach to environmental problems requires a society that is oriented towards the satisfaction of human needs rather than profit.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we must act decisively and wisely to protect our environment. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this report, and especially mrs agnès evren, who has been a member of the epp. the first priority of the new environment action programme is rightly the objective of achieving climate neutrality in the european union. we are the first generation to suffer the consequences of climate change. we have to look not only at our forests, but also at the spread of deserts in many parts of the world and many other things. we are the last generation that can stop climate change in a sustainable way, because there are dangerous points, tipping points in the climate system. and if we don't do that now, then our children and grandchildren are not likely to be able to control climate change. that is why it is good that the commission will be making its proposal for fit for 55 next week. and i appeal on behalf of the epp that we rely above all on the market economy, on incentives, on social equality. we want the emissions trading system to be at the heart of european climate policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and he has no way of balancing the burdens at european level. that is why i think that incentives, a market economy, individual creativity, that is the way to go, and not too many regulations from brussels.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu as a region is a world leader in policies to protect our nature and our environment. it is an important tradition that since the 1970s we have had environmental action programmes as guiding principles for environmental policy. for the eighth time, we are now going to adopt such a programme and it should guide us properly. it should set out visions and ensure that all parties take their responsibilities. we must now accelerate through the green given. we also need to meet the un's sustainable development goals. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament is now taking a progressive role in the final negotiations with the member states. today we take a stand on new indicators of well-being beyond gdp. today, we are taking the fight for an end date for the use of taxpayer funds for fossil subsidies as early as 2025. today we take a big step towards the just transition to the sustainable welfare economy.
mr president, dear colleagues, and europe: this is the first time i speak to you in this parliament. and i will address what concerns me the most: i will address climate change. with 73% of fossil energy in europe’s energy system, this environmental action programme that we have in front of us today gives us a unique chance to end the fossil subsidies and end a fossil era. and i have a clear message to give to you today, and let me be very clear: (the speaker remained silent for 30 seconds.) no more words can save us now – we need climate action.
mr president, the ambitious green deal needs an ambitious environmental action programme, because indeed we have a problem. if you look at it from economic perspective, can you imagine running the european monetary union on a 300% deficit? that’s what we’re doing with the planet. and i think this is where we really need to act on a number of fields. i want to point out one in particular, and that is soils. and i would like to also emphasise that even here in the environmental action programme, in a legislative text, the parliament calls for a binding legal framework for soils because it’s one of the elements that is missing, and i think this is something which we need for biodiversity, the climate, hazardous chemicals, for supporting our farmers. to be able to deliver on the action programme we also need sufficient resources of the commission. and that’s something that is lacking, not only at the commission, but also at the agencies. so we have the solid science and we have the capacity to not only make the rules, but to deliver and monitor them. so i hope that, not like today, tabling amendments for more resources, next year we will see a sufficiently resourced commission to deliver on this action programme.
mr president, one of the main lessons of this pandemic is that we need to invest in research and innovation and to increase our strategic resilience. in the light of the pandemic i welcome the ‘era vs corona’ action plan that calls for a deepening of cooperation, data sharing and coordination of research and innovation and funding against the coronavirus between the commission and the member states. progress made since 2000 in era’s ambition to create a genuine single market for research is visible. but we should have got much further, and there are still large disparities between member states. recent developments with the virus mutations clearly proved european money should be invested in long-term solutions such as effective and innovatory diagnostics, treatments and medicines. we have to support wide clinical trials for management of coronavirus patients, including those suffering from long covid and post-covid symptoms that occur in more than one third of cases. we need to show our citizens that their health is our priority.
for the ecr group. madam president, it is the case that the report on the review of the macroeconomic legislative framework by the econ committee, a report which is largely concerned with the reform of fiscal rules in the european union, mentions the word 'consolidation' only once, and only in the following sentence: the european parliament calls for the prevention of the premature consolidation of public finances. end of quote. it's as if we really believe that rising public debt is a permanent source of wealth growth, and as if we stopped saying what we used to say before this crisis, that in good times, we should reduce debt. i agree that consolidation should be timed for a period of good times after the pandemic, i.e. when stable economic growth is restored. but the preparation of consolidation plans in the member states should start today, so that we are ready to start consolidation as soon as the general escape clause is deactivated. governments should identify concrete consolidation measures today that will increase the sustainability of public finances in the long term. the basis for such a list should be the identification of inefficient expenditure, otherwise the only lesson to be learned from this crisis will be that higher public debt today means higher taxes tomorrow. as the econ report does not call on the member states to prepare for consolidation, i cannot support it.
madam president, i say to the house and the commissioner: the post-pandemic re-opening of the economies is followed by increased demand for raw materials. current market conditions include huge supply chain disruption and sudden price increase. and so sectorial stakeholders call upon the member states and, especially, the commission to proceed with the appropriate action. some of them, i would say very important, have been already addressed and adopted. however, challenges of the sector cannot be a reason not to reach our energy and climate targets. remember that the construction sector accounts for one third of eu waste. we must accelerate the transition of the sector towards a greener, sustainable model, as greater material efficiency could save up to 80% of the emissions produced. we need to reduce our strategic dependence. here, the launch of the alliances for batteries and hydrogen are good examples to be followed. we should not forget also about the 18 million jobs in the eu that are linked to the construction sector, and to minimise negative side effects of the transition by creating other sustainable jobs and reskilling for those who will be affected.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first of all, i didn’t plan to speak in plenary this week, but i had to replace a colleague of mine, to whom i wish a full and fast recovery from his injuries. but now to the topic. commissioner, without a doubt, the commission has been investing significantly in very promising, innovative research projects. they have shown the possibilities of advanced non-animal models. at the same time, however, the investments in these innovative methods are still dwarfed in comparison to the current investments in animal studies. in 2017, over 23 million animals were impacted by science. the majority of them were bred and killed without actually being used in the experiments. it all happens despite specific provisions in reach to promote alternative methods and to only use animals as a last resort. today, the eu has major challenges to face: infectious diseases, the fight against cancer and ensuring a clean and safe environment. these challenges are complex and the eu is addressing them on many fronts, one of them research and testing. the rapid emergence of advanced non—animal models offer immense opportunities to replace animals and improve research. the joint research centre has listed many of these methods for several disease areas, but they have not yet been followed by concrete measures. what we are asking from the commission is to do more of what it already does, but in a coordinated manner and with concrete goals that can replace animals in specific scientific areas. targeted funding, education and broad collaborations are key to making innovative advanced models and technologies the new normal. the commission should work towards inter—agency alignment by setting up a dialogue on the regulatory use of non—animal models in anticipation of the ‘one substance, one assessment’ approach, and to ensure a proper share of the agency’s budget is dedicated to these models.
author. – mr president, thank you very much for giving me the floor. dear colleagues, we all know that the covid-19 pandemic has severely affected the eu aviation sector, with the loss of more than two thirds of traffic and many many jobs, as carriers seek to maintain viability and reduce the costs. despite the state aid schemes, most of the airlines are still struggling to return to pre-pandemic activity levels. despite some improvements regarding the travel restrictions and the vaccination campaign, it is feared that the difficulties that the airline sectors are facing could lead to more job cuts and the further downgrading of terms and conditions. therefore, it is our duty to ensure fair competition. it is our duty to ensure that companies receiving public financial support fully respect workers’ rights and labour laws. against this background, the committee on employment and social affairs has the following questions to the commission. taking into account the evaluation of regulation (ec) no 1008/2008 how will the commission ensure effective enforcement of applicable eu legislation? what legal measures are being considered to ensure a level playing field and legal certainty for air crews, including the requirement to know which labour law is applicable to air crews? second, when will the commission put forward a revision of regulation (ec) no 1008/2008 in order to ensure decent working and employment conditions in the aviation sector? third, when will the commission publish the findings of the ad hoc group of member states’ experts on aviation and labour law? how will it remedy the lack of reliable data on the number of aircrew jobs, outsourced jobs and agency staff?
mr president, i would like to thank you. my colleagues! the ipcc report is a reminder that we have waited far too long and that we still have sectors where emissions are increasing. it's a reminder of what we should have done 20 or 30 years ago. as legislators, we must have courage. we have to do whatever it takes to stay below 1.5 degrees of warming. i've said it before, and i'll say it again: the eu emissions trading system is europe's most important tool for reducing emissions. it's an effective marketing tool to get us all the way. as the negotiator in charge of renew europe, i promise to do everything i can to ensure that we have the most effective tool possible. but i know there are people in this room who say they want the best for the climate, but at the same time they say they want to delay the timetable, who at the same time say it's going to be too expensive, who at the same time say it's going to be too risky, and who at the same time say that emissions reductions should be done somewhere else. fellas, we must be brave and do what is necessary!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the latest ipcc report from last august makes it very clear that to stop global warming we must stop emitting carbon urgently. we are at a point of no return, there is a margin but it is a concrete and unambiguous margin. the 30 years we have given ourselves until 2050 cannot be a test, the challenge is huge because it concerns everything: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. we have a first deadline, 2030, when governments and the union at the helm must specify what they will do: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we welcome the adoption of the fit for 55 but we are aware that the changes to be promoted are radical and that a total and just transformation is needed. that is why we will fight to ensure that the changes we have to make do not harm the most vulnerable citizens and regions. we shall be following closely the establishment of the social fund. moreover, the resources we will get from the implementation of the cbam should be devoted to these most fragile sectors of the population.
mr president, mr vice-president, one of the key elements of the 'fit for 55' package is undoubtedly the carbon adjustment mechanism at our borders. this centrepiece of our climate policy has a very noble purpose, which i obviously support: exporting our climate ambitions while maintaining the competitiveness of our industries. this would prevent their relocation. but at this stage, mr vice-president, i must make it clear that i have serious reservations about whether the draft of the cbam, as presented on 14 july, can actually meet these objectives. with the planned end of free allowances, which is obviously inevitable, it will be our companies that will lose competitiveness on third-party markets. it will be our domestic companies that will bear the additional administrative burden of the cbam, and it will be our manufacturing companies that will have to pay the co2 price of all those who produce with a lower or non-existent carbon price. it is inconceivable and unacceptable to me that our companies now have to pay for the lack of ambition of others. would it not be more logical, mr vice-president, that the polluter himself should pay?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fit for 55 package is the key instrument for achieving the new co2 reduction target by 2030. parliament had called for a 60% reduction, but we are ready to roll up our sleeves to help meet the main challenge of our century, which is to accompany the recovery towards a new model of sustainable development with zero emissions. but it must be clear that this change must be accompanied by a just transition that leaves no one behind. you can never have environmental sustainability without social sustainability. it is clear that the green transition cannot be for those who can afford it and the costs cannot fall on the economically most vulnerable. that is why we think that great attention should be paid to the social impact and costs of extending the ets system to public transport and housing and why we believe that the new social climate fund is going in the right direction, accompanying the transition with equity so that it is for everyone. the work on the package that we are facing in the coming months will certainly be demanding, but this cannot be an alibi for us to stand by and leave things as they are. the latest ipcc data has shown once again that a clear and rapid response is essential to avoid a transition from an emergency... (the president cut the speaker off)
i think it is extremely important that we base our political decisions on scientific facts. i therefore think it is very good that there is an international working group of climate scientists advising us. clearly, climate change is man-made and poses a major threat to humans, animals and the environment. the last report states that the greenhouse gas methane dissolves in the atmosphere after 12 years. this is unlike co2. with a constant emission of methane, the atmospheric layer of methane does not thicken or thin. the report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) also states that the impact of constant methane emissions on climate change is overestimated by three to four times. my question to the commission is this: what impact does this have on climate legislation for agriculture, for example? should not agriculture be seen as part of the solution rather than the problem?
mr president, i would like to thank you. yesterday we talked about the coronavirus crisis. we have shown that we can take drastic and immediate action if we really want to. for example, we didn't wait until we had the vaccines. with climate change, we face a far greater danger. but here, we're mostly betting on finding solutions that don't interfere with our lifestyle. we've known about this threat for 31 years. the latest ippc report from august was alarming reading. the planet is on fire. now, everybody, to the pumps. there are good initiatives in fit for 55 but far too little action here and now. we're still sitting here, hoping that the birds on the roof will fly down on us. i'm the grandmother of eight children and politically, i'm also greta thunberg's grandmother. children and young people throughout europe - indeed throughout the world - will love us if we finally take this seriously, and so will we old people, i should say. i hope that the commission will be as serious and as active as commissioner timmermans has just been. i hope so.
mr president, fit for 55 is a much needed package. the current status quo is not enough for europe to reach climate neutrality by 2050. if we want to achieve what we pledged, we need to go further. with this proposal the eu addresses climate change in several sectors. previous interventions focused mainly on energy production and industry. this is a step in the right direction. on the other hand, there is room for improvement. we need a better connection between the climate agenda and research and development. fit for 55 is comprehensive when it comes to regulation, standards, taxation and carbon pricing, but it falls short when it comes to the development of clean, affordable technologies. horizon europe partnerships are just an example of an initiative that could help us to develop the technological resources that we need to achieve our goals. we want a package linked to the real world, one that ensures a fair distribution of the burden we will put on different sectors of society, paying special attention to our citizens, counting on existing and emerging technologies, and contributing to the creation of wealth and jobs.
mr president, mr commissioner, every day we read, we see, new news about the present effects of climate change: floods this summer, fires, unusual weather effects, which remind us of the need to act and to act now. i think the package that the commission has put forward is very well-targeted and we need to somehow demonstrate to the public that these adverse effects of climate change - which are not something in the future, not something that is going to happen in an indeterminate future, but are already happening - have a response in the package. i think that we need to strengthen at least two initiatives to do this: the border adjustment mechanism cannot, in my view, be two years in the trial phase; we need to speed it up to show that this transition is just. and for that transition to be just, we also need to strengthen the social fund for climate change.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a few days ago, i was talking to a man in the shipping business. he was supposed to buy new ships. but he was in doubt: what technology should he bet on? can he count on there being enough green fuel? when will he have to pay for the pollution of the ships, and how much will it really cost? he was insecure, and i can understand that. a lot of european companies are facing the same kind of thinking right now. there are many unknowns in climate policy, as it is now. we'll change that when we succeed in landing an ambitious climate package. i know we can, but i am sincerely afraid that political apathy and all sorts of national considerations will drag things out. but time, it's not a luxury we have. if we do not act quickly, we risk slowing down the transformation of those companies that are ready. we risk missing out on the green investments we could have made, and worst of all, we risk not addressing the climate challenge in time. so let's get to it!
mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! i think it's good that the "fit for 55" package is finally on the table and we can discuss this. the serious floods in the summer, especially in my own country, in my own country, in belgium, in the netherlands, have shown the urgent need for action. i would like to make two comments on this package. firstly, climate change is not a zero-sum game. but of course energy must remain affordable, firstly for our citizens. i am thinking in particular of heating and driving. it has to be affordable. but the price of industrial trucks must also be competitive for our industry. otherwise we will simply be moving our companies out of europe to other parts of the world. secondly, i think we have to go to the market and we have to innovate. we cannot impose any prohibitions. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am not going to go into detail. i was just last week at the iaa mobility in munich, one of the big mobility fairs, and i was able to see firsthand how much innovation power is in our smes, in our start-ups, in our companies. we need to focus on this: that innovative solutions, innovative new technologies come to market, that we can use to show other regions of the world that we can tackle climate change.
president, the 'ready for 55' package is the first real concrete proposal that has come out of the green deal and the climate act. this proposal proposes a clear, coherent package to achieve the objective. i would therefore like to express my gratitude to the commission for this. i would also like to stress that parliament has a crushing responsibility to support this package, to strengthen it wherever possible and, above all, to ensure that it is balanced between the different sectors and that it is fairly distributed. i will therefore be very enthusiastic about this package. one of the challenges is that the rules on our products must apply to all products, whether they are made in our market or imported. that is why the extensions relating to the ets, the maritime story and, of course, the carbon limit correction mechanism are crucial. we must also take into account our international responsibilities. we must pay extra attention to our vulnerable partners, such as africa, and we must make greater efforts in this area.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, the climate crisis is turning into a climate catastrophe. thirty billion euros and a lot of human lives. that's just the cost of summer flooding in germany. we need to act, and we need to act radically enough. but we have a problem. slovakia and europe are facing rising energy prices, and this is again putting the most vulnerable and poorest at risk. why would you do that? for its growing dependence on climate-damaging fossil fuels and its imports from dictatorial regimes like putin's russia. yes, i'm talking about nord stream 2, which we gave putin another ace in the hole. thanks to schröder and merkel. how do you get out? by optimizing consumption, efficiency and local green energy, because these are not only addressing the climate crisis, but also our energy and strategic dependence on eastern dictators and the fluctuations in fossil fuel prices in world markets. and they're going to help people who are at risk of energy poverty. the situation where polluters get their permits for free and citizens have to pay must end. the money for emissions is supposed to go to two things: to support green innovation and solutions, and to go back to people as a carbon dividend.
in writing. the package of proposals, known as fit for 55, is a good kick-off from the european commission to the very difficult negotiations that now await us in the european parliament and among member states to agree effective measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and achieve our climate goals. some of the proposed measures, while very ambitious, will encounter strong resistance in several member states, as well as here in the european parliament. in particular, the proposed extension of emission allowance trading to buildings and road transport. many question whether it is a suitable tool to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and whether its consequences will not cause even worse social unrest than the recent yellow vest movement in france. without well-thought-out and timely accompanying measures, such measures will have a negative impact on the energy bills paid by citizens as well as on the fuel prices of their cars. in devastating ways, it can especially affect those from the most vulnerable social strata. i am afraid that the climate social fund and especially its budget in the form proposed will not be sufficient on its own to offset these social consequences. let us not forget that we are already facing a significant increase in energy prices, albeit for other reasons.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. european sanctions against the russian federation have been in place for seven years. i want to ask you all this question straight up. what have these sanctions really solved? what did they really help? apart from damaging european companies, apart from driving up energy prices, they have solved absolutely nothing. mr commissioner, who is not here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, it's high time we made that clear. enough of this anti-russian raving. that's enough. it is time to embark on the path of dialogue with the russian federation. it's time she stopped listening to the americans. europe is our continent. europe has the right to decide. europe has the right to choose good relations with the russian federation. on behalf of slovakia, i appeal and call on you to please take the path of peace and cooperation. not by confronting and escalating tensions.
mr president, when we speak about eu-russia relations we cannot forget the conflicts and the russian military presence in ukraine, georgia and moldova. for example it has been now 13 years since the russian invasion of georgia, where the russian occupation forces have engaged in an illegal military build-up and so-called borderisation; undertaken kidnappings and illegal detentions; continued closure of the occupation line. the russian federation needs to cease its illegal actions directed against the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia, but also ukraine and moldova, and implement international obligations and withdraw its military forces from the territory of these countries. it is up to the european union to give a clear signal that our policy will not change until russia starts to respect international law, and the territorial integrity of georgia, moldova and ukraine is restored within their internationally recognised borders.
mr president, i think this report by my friend and colleague andrius kubilius is excellent. we are clearly with the putin regime, facing an authoritarian and repressive regime. we have an uncomfortable neighbour who acts at once as a trading partner, an aggressive competitor and often an enemy of the peace, stability and unity of our union. energy security, strengthening our defense capabilities and targeted sanctions against putin's entourage and his collaborators are key. the kremlin only respects the strong. as for russian interference and hybrid warfare, the text includes numerous references to interference in domestic affairs, and we spaniards are no strangers to this. recently, the new york times denounced a document explaining how collaborators of mr puigdemont, a member of this house, sought support from the russian government for their plans to break the unity of spain. let us be aware that the enemies of democracy in europe, in spain - in this case russia - are constantly looking for partners and allies among us to destroy this european project, and they are supported by movements and parties that want to divide our member states. finally, i would like to express my support for amendment no 31 by the socialist group and my wish that the socialist government in spain should maintain the same sense of state and defence of unity.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is a growing tension between what is putin's russia today, a russia forced to adopt increasingly authoritarian policies in order to maintain control, and the real country which seems increasingly ready to turn the page. young russians today are watching their peers in the rest of europe and failing to embrace the limitations they face, the repression of civil society, the lack of freedom of speech and media, the censorship of the internet and, again, the growing and widespread corruption. it is to them that we must speak, because today's present is not russia's future and, even if some would like to think otherwise, it never will be. ladies and gentlemen, even the most imposing rock is consumed by the incessant waves of the sea. time and history are on our side, our values of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights speak for us. we must continue to put in place all the tools available to interact and to support russian civil society, with young people, with women and with men who dream of a different future, showing them that there is an alternative and there must be an alternative. by alienating its own people, by taking away the freedom that every human being yearns for, putin's regime has already lost, it just doesn't realize it yet.
mr president, it’s nothing new if we say that our relations with russia are at a very low point, in short: energy over-dependence, divergent policies of the member states’, direct interference in political processes and russia’s very active role in disinformation campaigns. so we need to increase the resilience of the eu and its partners in the eastern neighbourhood against russian disinformation and interference; ensure that russia is implementing the minsk agreement; engage with russian civil society more strategically, despite the regime’s evermore determined efforts to undermine any such engagement; besides carefully used selective engagement on urgent global challenges to generate progress on the other objectives. but we also must be realistic in our ambitions of democratising russia as implied in this document. we should rather not keep falling into a political trap, further narrowing space for our political actions. instead, we need a new, comprehensive, more strategic eu joint strategy towards russia that will finally enable us for a more proactive approach.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. what european policy towards russia needs today is perhaps more than anything else, is realism. there is a clear idea of where our interests are in this relationship, where the threats are and what we can realistically achieve through dialogue with moscow, or what we cannot achieve. and it really doesn't make sense to base european policy towards russia on demonizing putin or the russians. but it's also pointless to build it on the naive belief that moscow today cares and has a genuine interest in good relations with the european union and respect for international law, because it doesn't. and realism tells us that russia is taking and will continue to take steps to undermine our democracies, our unity, our security and the sovereignty of our partners. and that's why our first duty is to defend ourselves. to defend our interests, our democratic institutions against state terrorism, against political destabilization, dirty money or against cyber attacks. the instruments well described in this report. of course, let's look for areas where we can work with the russians. let's prepare for a post-putin era, but we must build our strategy on a reality that won't change anytime soon.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear commissioner, dear rapporteurs, we greens very much welcome that after two years of lengthy negotiations, we finally have an ipa iii. and we also welcome that the green deal of the commission has left its footprint in this ipa iii, literally amounting to up to 27% of all the funds going to climate and biodiversity and environmental topics. and if you know the region, if you know how many people suffer from air pollution in the region, if you know how the wild waste deposits look like, the lack of wastewater treatment that is still pouring the wastewater into the rivers, you see an urgent need for these kind of investments. we also have big infrastructure projects and basically a lot of concrete projects that will be put in place. and the more concrete, the more possibilities to also side-line some of the funds and the more possibilities you find for corruption. so we explicitly welcome the conditionality on the rule of law, on basic fundamental rights, on basic democratic principles that have to be held up in the countries to receive these funds, and if not, we can stop these fundings going to the countries, which is an impactful measure. we very much welcome that also civil society is included into the possible beneficiaries of that money, as they play a key role in the region. but we need stable institutions and we need rule of law, otherwise private investors will not follow our investments into the balkan region, and i think this would be urgent for the region as well. and last but not least, through the european parliament having an impact on annexes 2 to 4, we in the delegations will have more leverage in our negotiations from parliament to parliament.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, over 14 billion is to be distributed under this instrument in the coming period. it's not as big a sum as we've gotten off lightly in afghanistan, so that we can all escape there, shamefully, but close, from the european taxpayers. where will this money go in turkey, in the western balkans. this turkey that violates human rights, that keeps families, journalists, children in prison, that invades the territory of foreign countries, this neo-ottoman and illiberal turkey, which everyone, so to speak, condemns, but again money will be poured there. a shocking hypocrisy and an inexplicable double-dealing. when it comes to the western balkans, nothing different. macedonia, north macedonia, a country that brutally, openly violates human rights and during this census is currently violating the right to self-determination, violating the right of the people there, of the bulgarians there, to self-determinate as bulgarians, and otherwise everyone talks about the rule of law. your honor, the rule of law is also about self-determination, as bulgarians i mean. and last but not least, i want to express my disapproval of your replacing illegal immigration with unregulated immigration. a pun that doesn't say anything, it's not unregulated, it's illegal.
mr president, the ipa iii is a significant financial instrument designed for future eu member states. therefore, it deserves full political attention across europe. congratulations to ms zovko and mr picula for negotiating an agreement which improves governance and increases scrutiny by this house, including through establishing a high—level geopolitical dialogue. ipa iii is much more than a financial transfer. it is a political instrument which binds our partners in the region to put fundamentals first, and to work diligently on rule of law reforms and sound and sustainable public investment. money alone, however, will not guarantee that things move forward in the western balkans. ipa iii must go hand in hand with europe’s political ambition, strategic commitment and geopolitical shrewdness when dealing with countries to which we clearly offered a european perspective as long as two decades ago. it is therefore high time we all – and member states especially – do much more for a successful european union enlargement.
mr. chairman, every crisis is an opportunity, but only if we have the courage to make the big move. our recovery plan commits member states to invest in digital infrastructure and sustainability. we must seize this opportunity to develop new economic models that will create new and more sustainable jobs. however, we must not forget the social dimension of the recovery, as in most of the european union prices are rising and wages are staying the same. let's not forget that some fat people took advantage of this crisis and profited from it. the big multinational companies, known for violating the rights of their workers and our privacy rights, have made a lot of money. yet, they still skillfully evade paying taxes. it is unacceptable that digital giants pay a tax rate many times lower than, for example, small and medium-sized enterprises. we need to ensure a global response to destroy tax havens. we cannot afford to let the big guys miss out on over 825 billion euros a year, but that's why our citizens are getting regular warnings. it is not the citizens who have to pay for the consequences of the crisis, and in conclusion: this crisis has shown that there is no turning back. the european union must have a permanent financial mechanism for crises. there is a need to revise european rules to reduce the disparities between member states, between rich and poor.
mr president, i want to say that you are indeed right that the eu has weathered the past year better than many had expected. we caught up in terms of vaccination rates with leading countries around the world and our economic recovery is underway. of course, we still have a way to go to defeat covid both in europe and abroad, but the eu has indeed proved many of its doubters wrong. looking ahead, though, what myself and many of my colleagues are especially concerned about is the continuing democratic backsliding in several member states. president von der leyen spoke about various ambitions that the eu should pursue, from healthcare to military capacity, from climate change to social policy. of course, i support all these ambitions, but the success of any of these future projects relies on a shared set of principles and values. none of these programmes that the president outlined will be successful and work well in the long run if the european union turns into a disjointed club of democracies and other regime types. the trust we need, the mutual trust we need, to sustain these initiatives and the shared sense of purpose to drive them will evaporate if this is not the case. what we’re seeing today – the suppression of critical voices, state-sponsored hate campaigns, attacks on independent institutions – all of this suggests that some members of our community are increasingly drifting away. the eu must recognise that the orchestrators of these illiberal developments are first and foremost government elites, while citizen support for the eu remains very high in both hungary and poland. this is why the european commission needs to take action as we have called for. it needs to put up a fight for its values, because if we don’t, we will never have the political strength and the cohesion to move forward with these ambitious projects. therefore, president von der leyen, rule of law and democracy is not just another agenda among many; it’s not just another box to tick; it’s not just another paragraph in a speech; it’s a precondition for anything else we want to do together.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i fully support the exchange of tax information and i am against tax evasion. however, we are to some extent again in a situation where the report turned into a political fight over the questions of tax harmonisation in the european union. i believe national tax sovereignty should be maintained. tax harmonisation in the union might result in the limitation of tax competition. i believe healthy tax competition has benefits compared to full tax harmonisation, as it enables member states to compare and apply best practices of the other member states. cuts on inefficient spending can allow governments to buy more for the same money or to use the savings to reduce the tax burden to attract international investment and stimulate economic growth and innovation. we should not limit this option yet.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the israeli pegasus phone-spying software was supposed to be used to fight crime, but states have used it to spy on journalists, business leaders and even more than 600 politicians, including perhaps french president emmanuel macron. in the face of this scandal, several national courts decided to open judicial investigations. i hope, without being overly optimistic, that they will be able to identify and punish those responsible. the right to privacy, freedom of the press and respect for the sovereignty of certain states, such as france, are essential principles that have been seriously violated. beyond these investigations, however, we need to take steps to restrict the sale of this type of spyware and to strengthen our cybersecurity to try and prevent such a scandal from happening again. pending such international regulation, i suggest that the european union strengthen its regulation of 5 may 2009 on the control of exports of goods with dual civil and military use and recommend that the states concerned accede to the 1996 wassenaar arrangement on the same subject. the union has already announced a new cybersecurity strategy. i shall judge it by its results and not by its intentions: the union has sinned too often in its naiveté.
on behalf of the left group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. pegasus, the winged horse of greek mythology, turns out to be a trojan horse with evil intentions. in short, such software must be withdrawn from circulation. and since the nsa scandal, at the latest, we all know what espionage can do. and the private spy and hacking service provider nso group, which sells this software to dozens of surveillance-hungry countries and doesn't even think about stopping, needs to be shown the red card. these services are illegal. and that they're still taking taxpayer money to use to unfetteredly monitor unwanted female journalists, human rights activists, lawyers, that's really the epitome of perversion. the commission and the council are not the only ones to have been concerned about this, but i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has been involved in the preparation of the draft directive on the protection of personal data. ladies and gentlemen of the council and commission, you should ensure that no member state uses such software. ladies and gentlemen, we're not done with this.
madam president, the pegasus scandal is deeply troubling. it calls for european action on several levels. first, we must focus our joint efforts much more on safe communication. we must adapt to the new technological realities and ensure that journalists, politicians and activists across the european union have reliable means to a secure exchange of information. democratic politics and free and independent media cannot flourish when both interpersonal and professional relations get raked at a massive scale with the help of malicious activity. let’s remember: if journalists cannot rely on secure communication, their lives can be in danger. in slovakia, we learned the hardest way when ján kuciak was murdered. second, we must ask the european commission to follow up thoroughly, and investigate on both the potential and/or the alleged abuse of digital surveillance technology by certain member states. it is unacceptable that modern technologies are misused within europe with the aim of undermining our freedom and democracy. it is good that, after our discussion on the pegasus scandal in inge committee, we are addressing this issue in the plenary today. however, subsequent european action on this matter is going to be crucial. dear colleagues, if we allow dictatorships, such as china, to become permanent technological forerunners, european democracy will be at dire risk. there is still time to join forces to prevent this bleak picture of our own future.
member of the commission. madam president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you again for this debate and to return to some points. first, i have heard a number of questions, including the recall, sometimes, of written questions already asked in recent weeks or months. i will of course urge the services and my colleagues to provide answers to the questions that are asked when we have the information. on the substance, the pegasus case has once again demonstrated - and many have pointed out - the urgency of the rapid adoption of the eprivacy regulation, which will strengthen the confidentiality of communications, as well as the need - as i mentioned earlier - for the commission's recommendation to protect journalists. and we will have to check the implementation of these recommendations by the member states. i believe that this will be an important element in the measures we will take gradually to strengthen this protection, particularly that of journalists. but they were not the only ones in this kind of situation. let me also underline that we do have eu rules in place for criminal liability. should software, such as pegasus, be used inappropriately, eu law requires member states to criminalise the use of it under their domestic legal framework. the directive on attacks against information systems provides definitions of criminal offences and sanctions for a number of offences, including illegal access to information systems, illegal interference with systems and data, illegal interception and the illegal distribution of tools to commit such offences. this includes the misuse of the personal data of another person identity fraud. let me remind you that the enforcement of criminal law, or of data protection rules, is in the hands of national authorities. as i said during my introduction, the hungarian data protection authority has opened an investigation into the pegasus case. the commission will of course follow the procedure very closely, and you know that we are taking the initiative in different member states to ensure the independence of the authority in charge of data protection. and of course, we will also ask the hungarian authority to come forward with transparency about the results of the investigations. i have said what the normal timelines for that are, but again, we continue to monitor it. you know that, in all european regulations, there's a real disincentive to installing independent bodies in the member states to organise enforcement of those rules. and in conclusion, i would like to say that this survey is obviously particularly important in the specific case of the use of software. but again, it shows the need to move forward on a number of the work that the commission has proposed to you, and to the council, to strengthen the rules we have in this area and to ask the member states to implement national provisions which allow prosecutions to go much further, particularly - as i have mentioned - in criminal prosecutions which can sometimes be brought in cases like this. i thank you again for the debate we have had today, but we will continue to follow very closely all developments in the various aspects of this pegasus case in the coming weeks and months.
the chairman of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. thank you for sharing your thoughts on this important matter. i assure you that the council remains committed to the protection of our european democracy and to the respect for the rule of law in the european union. we will also continue to work to strengthen media freedom and pluralism across the european union and to protect the rights of our citizens. the council will work intensively to increase our digital resilience and enhance cybersecurity, which are essential not only for the proper functioning of our economies but also and above all for our democracies and individual freedoms, as was most clearly demonstrated in today's debate. and as you know, cyber security is one of the key priorities of the slovenian presidency. thank you again for your attention.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. there is no doubt that the pegasus spyware case is an international scandal that cannot remain without significant consequences. extensive investigative journalism and investigations in several countries since then have proved that spyware can be used by certain governmental or other organizations to spy on journalists, opposition politicians, or even government leaders. it is important to note that, according to the information we have at present, only the current hungarian government, led by viktor orbán, has this software among the member states of the european union. the fact is that fidesz is using all possible means to prevent the investigation of the use of the software in hungary, hinders the work of the special committee of the hungarian parliament, does not release data of public interest in the case to the public illegally. we know that the orbán government has allowed record numbers of surveillance in the past, but they are hiding all the information about it. the very fact that a european union country is involved in this serious international scandal must have its consequences. the orbán government's meddling in this matter is also a serious threat to the european community. that is why i am calling on the eu institutions to use all means possible to pressure the orbán government to stop using the pegasus software and to prove, with adequate guarantees, that it has not used the spyware to conduct unethical surveillance of journalists, politicians or even european partners. transparency is not only in the interest of the hungarian people, but also of the european community!
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on media freedom and further deterioration of the rule of law in poland (2021/2880(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, pluralism and media freedom are key for any free and democratic society. as citizens of the european union, we know well that they are not self-evident. they are rather the result of the historic struggle for fundamental rights and freedoms, namely for the freedom of thought and the freedom of expression. the two freedoms reinforce all other human rights and fundamental freedoms, allowing society to develop and progress. media freedom and pluralism is, and must remain, a central pillar of the european project based on the promotion and protection of the rule of law. as the presidency, we devote our special attention to equal respect for the fundamental values and principles of the eu, including media freedom. this is a joint responsibility of the institutions and the member states. together, we have to ensure that independent, free and diverse media thrive and that citizens have access to reliable information. this is the basis of any functioning democracy: to allow for the exchange of diverse and even conflicting opinions to contribute to constructive, rational and open democratic debates. the covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated numerous pre-existing challenges for media and journalists, such as the sharp decline in revenues and the various transformations brought by the digital environment. yet a free, independent and pluralistic media system has never been as important as now to ensure that our citizens can make informed decisions, relying on objective and diverse sources of information. the slovenian presidency believes that the freedom, plurality and professionalism of the media and the fight against fake news deserve special attention. in this context, the council is committed to working on strengthening media freedom and pluralism and is looking forward to the presentation by the commission of the different initiatives set out in the european democracy action plan. media pluralism and freedom constitute one of the four pillars of the rule-of-law report prepared by the commission. the 2021 report highlights some important progress in this area, such as the strengthening of the independence of media regulators, including in the context of the implementation of the audiovisual media services directive, but also underlines areas that deserve further improvement, such as the protection of journalists and the transparency of the media ownership. the issue related to media freedom as a constituent part of the rule of law are regularly addressed in the council. the presidency remains committed to addressing these issues in the context of the council’s annual rule-of-law dialogue, initiated by the german presidency in 2019. on 19 october at the general affairs council, we will have a horizontal discussion on rule-of-law matters on the basis of the 2021 rule-of-law report, which will be followed up by the country-specific discussions with ministers of european affairs on 23 november concerning five member states, namely croatia, cyprus, italy, latvia and lithuania. in addition, the european commission continues to closely monitor the recent rule-of-law developments in member states. as the presidency, we always urge for the principle that equal criteria apply to everyone. this is vital to maintain citizens’ trust in public institutions and a prerequisite for mutual trust among the member states.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for having put on the agenda this point on the situation of media freedom and rule of law in poland. i am pleased to update you on the recent developments since the july plenary, where you discussed the rule-of-law situation in poland last time. i was myself in poland two weeks ago on the occasion of the commemoration of the events of august 1980 and i reminded the polish people and the polish authorities that we need a strong poland at the core of the eu, shaping it on the basis of our common values and mutual trust. allow me to start now this introduction with media-related aspects. when media freedom and pluralism are under threat, democracy itself is under threat. the 2021 rule-of-law report found several aspects of concern regarding media freedom and pluralism, be it as regards the media market, the role of national authorities, as well as the environment for journalists’ work and their safety. we fear that the so-called strategy of re-polonisation of the media goes against our values – media freedom and pluralism – and also against our internal market. this is why we covered the new draft media law, also known as lex tvn, and the situation of polska press in our 2021 report, and i have heard many concerns from many sides on this draft law. i also note that the polish senate rejected the bill last week on thursday, 9 september. if this law is ultimately adopted, we would need to assess its compliance with eu law and in particular the right to freedom of establishment. more generally, when it comes to the media environment, there should be no political pressure, and journalists should have the right conditions to do their job. we all gain respect through our actions, accepting a diversity of opinions and allowing citizens to be duly informed. commissioner breton and i are working to design a european media freedom act that was mentioned by president von der leyen in her speech this morning. the aim is to protect the media as key actors in our democracies and stop those who threaten media freedom. this means having an eu law for the first time ever, with safeguards to promote the independence and pluralism of the media. honourable members, let me now refer to some other rule-of-law developments in poland concerning the judiciary. the latest developments in poland are particularly worrying. you will remember that in april this year, the commission referred poland to the court of justice regarding the new law on the judiciary of december 2019 and the continued activities of the disciplinary chamber of the polish supreme court. the commission considers that the law on the judiciary undermines the independence of polish judges and is incompatible with the primacy of eu law. besides referring the infringement case to the court of justice, the commission also asked the court to order interim measures. the objective was to prevent the aggravation of serious and irreparable harm to judicial independence in the eu legal order. on 14 july the court granted all the interim measures requested by the commission. furthermore, in the context of another infringement procedure, which the commission referred to the court of justice in october 2019, the court found on 15 july that the disciplinary regime for judges in poland is not compatible with eu law. among other things, the court of justice found that the disciplinary chamber of the polish supreme court does not provide all the guarantees of impartiality and independence and is not protected from the direct or indirect influence of the polish legislature and executive. as a follow-up, on 20 july commissioner reynders sent poland a letter asking for information as regards compliance with these rulings. we received the reply from poland on 16 august. unfortunately, the reply of poland was not satisfactory, and these two european court of justice rulings regarding the independence of polish judges have not been fully implemented in poland. the developments on the ground are particularly worrying. the disciplinary chamber continues to schedule and examine cases concerning judicial immunities and disciplinary liability of judges. also, there have been no measures to suspend the effects of the decisions already taken to lift the immunity of judges by the disciplinary chamber, as required by the interim order of the court of justice. furthermore, on 26 august the disciplinary officer appointed by the polish minister of justice informed about disciplinary investigations launched against a judge who applied the interim measures order of the court of justice. on 9 september the minister of justice decided to suspend the judge concerned for one month. given that the actions of the polish authorities continue to undermine the functioning of the polish justice system, the commission thus took two separate decisions last week to ensure the implementation of the decisions of the court of justice. first, the commission decided to request that the court of justice impose financial penalties on poland to ensure compliance with the court’s interim measures order of 14 july. the commission is asking the court to impose a daily penalty payment on poland for as long as the measures imposed by the court’s order are not fully implemented. second, the commission also decided to send a letter of formal notice to poland for not taking the necessary measures to comply fully with the judgment of the court of justice of 15 july, finding that polish law on the disciplinary regime against judges is not compatible with eu law. further concerns have emerged, in particular as regards the questioning of the primacy of eu law by the polish authorities. in that respect, on 14 july the polish constitutional tribunal issued a decision finding interim measures orders of the court of justice in the area of justice to be ultra vires. on 29 july the polish prosecutor general asked the polish constitutional tribunal to declare the unconstitutionality of article 6 of the european convention on human rights, which notably provides for the right to a tribunal established by the law insofar as it is applied to the constitutional tribunal. moreover, the constitutional tribunal is still called upon to rule in a case initiated by the polish prime minister, in which the principle of the primacy of eu law has been questioned. commissioner reynders also has addressed a letter to the polish authorities regarding this case and underlined the concerns that this motion raises in relation to the principle of sincere cooperation and the rule of law. as stated by president von der leyen in her speech this morning, i quote: ‘our values are guaranteed by our legal order and safeguarded by the judgments of the european court of justice. these judgments are binding. we make sure that they are respected, and we do so in every member state of our union.’ end of quote. honourable members, i can assure you that the commission will continue to act with determination to defend the need to have independent courts and effective judicial review everywhere in the eu. i thank you for your attention and look forward to your interventions.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, we should not have to have these debates. the checks and balances that are expected in every member state by every citizen should ensure that issues like media freedom and the rule of law, that are so fundamental to the legitimacy of our european project, are not subject to debate. member states are not all the same. we do not want them to be all the same. europe is about celebrating differences, but it can only work in harmony because we are bound by our common values system. a system that, if allowed to come under threat anywhere, puts us all at risk. and this is why it is correct to take action because this joint project of ours is only as strong as our defence of european values. and when polish citizens look to the european union, they expect the promise for europe to deliver for them, too. you cannot have a free and open democracy when state—controlled media freedom feeds streams of propaganda, when independent media is intimidated, when judges’ independence is threatened. and we in europe know how slippery the slope can be when loyalty to the party is placed above loyalty to the nation, above meritocracy, above truth. and so we must act and we must do so in a way that draws a difference between the polish authorities and the polish people. poland’s place is not on the sidelines of europe because the ideals that poland embodied when my generation was growing up inspired by lech wałęsa speaking of justice, law and equality, or st john paul forcing a change in the axes of global history, that is the poland that we know. that is the poland that we look to for inspiration. a european poland that understands that the fight for democracy and freedom did not end with the revolution and that the struggle is continuous and is constant. so my appeal is one: don’t move further away from these ideals that moved a continent only a generation ago, that changed the world. my appeal is: please come back.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. polish once. poland again. the european parliament has once again voted in favour of a resolution tabled by no less than five parliamentary groups in this house, five pro-european groups identified with european values and which once again secure a majority for a resolution reiterating the european parliament's concern at the deterioration of the rule of law in poland. 'further deterioration' means a further turn of the screw in the continuing erosion of the rule of law, which is reflected in its latest episodes in this emergency resolution on freedom of expression: an initiative in the sejm, rejected by the polish senate and therefore timely for the ruling of this european parliament, which reiterates the importance of respecting information pluralism 'media pluralism' threatened again by a law that seeks to restrict that pluralism under the pretext of intervening in the national or foreign ownership of the media in poland. but i also reiterate my concern about judicial independence and the primacy of european law. an absolute majority, the law and justice majority, has launched a legislative strategy which has left no puppet in the polish constitutional building with its head on the wall as regards judicial independence: constitutional court, supreme court, judicial council and disciplinary chamber. but there have been initiatives before the european court of human rights and the court of justice which have declared the disciplinary chamber illegal under european law. and what do we see? that the minister of justice, who is also the prosecutor general, should ask the polish constitutional court to declare that the polish constitutional court is not a court within the meaning of article 6 of the european convention on human rights and therefore not within the meaning of article 47 of the european charter of fundamental rights. it is the last frontier, a flagrant disregard not only for the judgments of the court but also for the commitment to respect the law which the court of justice guarantees, in accordance with article 19 of the treaty on european union. it is therefore a qualitative step in the disregard for european law, which has been demonstrated time and again by the resolutions of the european parliament. but there is more: there is a call to the commission to activate article 6 of the rule of law conditionality, which is a regulation in force since 1 january of this year 2021, and which ensures that access to european funds and budgets must be linked to strict compliance with the rule of law. we welcome the fact that the commission has launched infringement proceedings. we welcome the commission's announcement that it is suspending access to react funds, which are cohesion funds, for municipalities that have infamously declared themselves 'lgbti-free zones', free of alleged lgbti ideology. but we also ask the commission to bear in mind the requirement to continue to apply - (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker)
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, captured courts, attacks on independent media, hate against sexual minorities, public broadcasters blasting pro—government propaganda, violations of parliamentary procedures – this, unfortunately, is poland in the hands of the current government. by all standards, democracy and the rule of law in poland are in retreat, and actually have been for years. and the response of the european union so far has been mostly meagre: there have been a couple of court cases, but they fizzled out through the polish government’s persistent non—compliance, and this absolutely must change. obviously, there is a time for dialogue, but the time seems to be up, and access to eu funding must be conditional on compliance with european rules and european values. and even if that does not change the minds of the polish and hungarian governments, at least it will remind everybody else, including polish and hungarian citizens that the eu still stands for fundamental principles. the commission is therefore well within its rights to also request penalty payments for ongoing compliance and non—compliance with european court of justice (ecj) decisions. it’s a move that we’ve been – in this parliament – calling for for a long time. also, the government’s active campaign against independent media is equally deserving of eu attention. we support the call by vice—president jourová to introduce a media freedom act that would specifically protect this crucial sector from political interference. but in the meantime, all other legal steps must also be taken to prevent further centralisation of power in poland, including the suspension of eu funding because the eu cannot be sponsoring an assault on democracy and rule of law in its member state.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. today's debate is yet another example of the european parliament misinterpreting its role, playing the political judge and constantly demanding sanctions of all kinds. they always find an excuse to attack those who think differently than you in the name of diversity and acceptance. poland is next. this debate was originally about a media law amendment, but in fact they are attacking poland again on every existing issue. it should be made clear that poland like all other member states has the right to make rules for the media market and that if concerns arise in this respect legal or economic then there are competition authorities or even courts where this can ultimately be decided. but it is not the role of the european parliament to pass judgement in advance here, and certainly it is not the role of anyone here to interfere with the constitutional powers of the member states. poland has the right to decide on its justice system, it has the right to decide on immigration, it has the right to decide on the education of children in poland, it has the right to decide on family law issues, and you have no say in these issues.
madam president, we would not be here today discussing poland if it were for a single misstep in this important member state. unfortunately, i am sorry to say that we have been observing a dangerous political trend in poland with potentially existential consequences for the european project. as a central european, proud of my region’s return to europe after the fall of the iron curtain, i am sad to observe recent developments in poland. this great country deserves to be in the headlines for its success. instead, we are reading news about attempts to silence the judges, about the lack of tolerance across poland. i am convinced that polish people deserve a political representation known and recognised for its engaging and constructive role in the european union, known for supporting thriving democratic institutions and public openness, known for respecting european institutions and principles that apply to all eu citizens. in our discussion, we must clearly distinguish between citizens of poland and the government in poland. it is worrying that we are observing a growing gap between the european preferences of most poles and the public disservice that the leadership in warsaw is doing to poland’s firm place in democratic europe. silencing of journalists, using state financing to turn media into propaganda tools is not just a dangerous political trend inside the eu. it is also a sign of political weakness of a government that may not be able to compete on a level playing field. i therefore remain hopeful that just as fair play, facts and solid information are the lifeblood of european democracy, they will persevere decisively in the hearts and minds of the people in poland.
author. – mr president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner schmit, i don’t know where you get all the energy actually at this time, you know. i’m a big admirer. ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis that was caused by the covid-19 pandemic has had a dramatic impact on the lives of all of us, especially on the vulnerable groups. it has led to deepening inequalities. it has led to increasing numbers of people that are at risk of poverty. it has shed a light on existing imbalances and accelerated dangerous social trends, especially on the vulnerable groups. this past year we have, fortunately, slowly started recovering from the detrimental social and economic effects, but joint efforts and strong political will are still needed to ensure a just and equitable recovery that will leave no one behind in the social europe that we all want to create and build. therefore, i ask the commission, how will you work together with the member states to address the social consequences of the pandemic, protect the rights and improve the situation of the most vulnerable groups? addressing efficiently, and successfully, the consequences is, however, not possible without quality disaggregated data. how will the commission work to ensure the timely collection of quality disaggregated data on the consequences of the pandemic on the employment and also on the social situation within the european union, especially among the most vulnerable groups? important financial and political instruments have already been available and introduced, such as the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) and, of course, the mechanism sure. it is, however, not enough to make those instruments only available, they have to be properly implemented and they have to be properly monitored. therefore, i would like to know how will the commission ensure that national recovery and resilience plans are duly implemented and contribute to the objectives that were stated in the rrf regulation, in particular in terms of quality, employment, poverty reduction and upward social and economic convergence? furthermore, how will the commission evaluate and monitor the implementation of the impact of the mechanism sure? the development of skills and competences, in line with labour market needs, is also essential in the context of eu recovery and also with the digital and green transition. so how will the commission further coordinate and support the development of those skills and of those competences? finally, let me turn to the future, because future crises for various reasons are unavoidable and we need to be prepared for them. therefore, my final question to the commission today would be, how will you work with the member states to improve eu actions to enhance the social resilience and sustainability of the recovery of the european economies and our better response to the future crises?
for the ecr group. mr president, i understand the concern that we would be handing over to algorithms the control of decisions that could seriously affect human lives. for example, because algorithms can make mistakes. but i do not agree that on the basis of such concerns alone we should ban the use of artificial intelligence altogether wherever it may have a legal impact on individuals, as this report proposes. we should have analytics that honestly compare the functionality and efficiency of human and algorithmic decision making, and make better decisions for that. in this context, there are already examples of successful use of ai in criminal cases, which have led to a more efficient and fairer system. take the prison reform lawsuit in the state of new jersey.
mr president, mr vitanov's report on the use of artificial intelligence in criminal proceedings is good, balanced and professionally drafted. so i think the good part is that it shows the positive side of ai in criminal justice, and it shows the negative side. in my opinion, as a long-time judge, i think that you have to be careful about using artificial intelligence in the decision-making process of a court. there should be a human element to it, because the decision about guilt and punishment is always individual, and no algorithm can possibly apply that to a given situation. even in this room, the president is making decisions now and then, he has to make decisions, and if he didn't, there would be artificial intelligence sitting here instead of the president, and there would be artificial intelligence sitting here instead of meps, because we would know how to make decisions based on algorithms. the potential for misuse of ai in the protection of human rights and freedoms should be avoided, but in principle and in principle, ai is a contribution to the fight against crime and should be encouraged, should be developed.
in writing. several events in recent years, most recently the uncoordinated and unconsulted withdrawal of us troops from afghanistan with the european union, have highlighted the need to balance relations between the two long-standing partners and security allies of the us and the european union. we must seize this opportunity to renew cooperation between us as two equal partners without dominating one over the other wherever this cooperation is in the best interests of our interests and the security of the entire world. we cannot be afraid to tell our american partners assertively what we dislike about their foreign and trade policies and what we would like to do differently. we cannot ignore the differences in attitudes that exist. equal partners tell each other the truth, right to their faces. the eu and the us share a great responsibility for the development of this world and must act accordingly. while i appreciate some of the actions of the new us administration, whether it be a return to the paris agreement or the lifting of us sanctions against the international criminal court, we have yet to see their concrete materialization, as well as further measures to address them.
mr sinčić, it happens occasionally that even speakers from political groups are not following the agenda. this is the business of the political groups but you are non-inscrit, and you get the speaking time from a structure which is delivered by parliament. i personally believe that with those people who get speaking time on that ticket we need to guarantee that those people stick to the agenda. i think this was not the case in your case, and i am going to inform the president that we have a closer look at such appearances.
mr president, those who took to the streets of belarus a year ago were not rioters, not radicals, not extremists, but anonymous citizens, teachers, students, lawyers, housewives, pensioners, not meps. and they only asked for two things: freedom and fair democracy. more than 7,000 men and women were persecuted, arrested, tortured, and sent to prison without trial. we don't even know today how many people are still imprisoned on lukashenko's orders. now the belarusian dictator has gone a step further and has begun to use thousands of iraqi and afghan refugees as human weapons against the neighbouring democracies. before, it was the hybrid war of electoral interference. now it is about destabilising our eastern borders by using people who live in utmost misery as projectiles. putin and lukashenko have become human traffickers. putin and lukashenko are mafia bosses who buy and sell people in the east. sanctions against lukashenko must not only continue, but be increased. and we must not rest until we bring lukashenko to the international criminal court. many times from this podium i have called for solidarity with the south. today i ask for solidarity for the east. just as spain, italy and greece border the european union, so do lithuania, latvia and poland.
mr president, commissioner, the repression in belarus has not stopped and has even intensified in recent days. however, many initiatives have been taken to address this situation as a non-law, but this is not enough. the mechanism of sanctions imposed on the regime and its affiliates that fund it must be stronger, clearer and broader. it is also imperative that the european union step up its action on the fight against impunity and support any mechanism for collecting and protecting evidence, so that crimes committed do not go unpunished. we also need to give more visibility to the people we support and thus ask for a high level mission to visit those people who are in prison. finally, we must not give in to the immoral game of migration. the response to this cynical game of illiberal regimes such as turkey, libya or belarus is a migration policy worthy of the name, which guarantees the protection of migrants, but which also guarantees international law to protect them.
mr. chairman, thirty-five thousand belarusians have experienced some form of state repression in the past year: arrest, imprisonment, torture. and this number shows the enormous heroism of belarusians who, in the face of brutality, do not stop fighting for european values, our values of freedom and democracy, day after day. we really couldn't have imagined that a year ago. nor could we have imagined that the lukashenko regime would eventually become a security threat to europe and the international community. he hijacked a plane with european citizens on board and now, most recently, he is exploiting the desperate plight of people fleeing war to destabilise europe's borders and the schengen area. the second thing is that the european union is not handling the situation as well as we might expect. those sanctions packages came late and still did not hit the key sectors of the economy that keep lukashenko in power, such as the petrochemical industry. the eu has also provided a number of technical assistance to the belarusian authorities in the field of human rights. and we ourselves, by not having completed the reform of the asylum and migration system, have become more vulnerable to lukashenko's cynical tactics. colleagues, there is a lot of talk these days about the european union's ability to defend its values and promote its interests autonomously. and here we have a brutal dictatorial regime right in europe, torturing its own citizens and destabilizing the eu's borders. if we can't handle this kind of challenge, then i really don't know how strong we want to be as a global player.
mr president, nikita zolotariov, born in 2004, is a now 17—year—old boy. he was arrested and convicted to almost five years in prison after attending the protests of last year. his parents are unsure if he is still alive because he is dependent on medication. a political prisoner – a child! there are over 700 political prisoners, and lukashenka has still room and resources to intimidate, and worse still, abroad. i asked in july to start preparing new sanctions, not to lose any time. we need to stop the cynical bargaining, without exceptions among the individual member states. instead of cynical bargaining, we need to engage more non—eu countries to achieve the most complete isolation possible. lukashenko is pushing vulnerable people over the border. this is unacceptable, but pushing them back and leaving them to die can never be the european answer. i urge the polish authorities to find a solution now in cooperation with the commission and member states. and the latter, the member states, should stop looking away because one moria is already one too many. creating many ‘morias’ at our external borders would be a moral failure.
mr president, madam commissioner, colleagues, today we must pay our respect to all those who are fighting for a democratic belarus. my thoughts are especially with those who have been detained or imprisoned for their political beliefs by the regime in minsk. lukashenko is currently using two important weapons against his own people and against europe. the first is manipulative disinformation. the regime in minsk is conducting a thorough brainwashing disinformation war. we in the european union must fight for the perseverance of quality news. the eu has to support actively everyone who can still report on the reality on the ground – belarussian journalists, including those who are in exile and those who are bravely still working from their own country. lukashenko’s second weapon is hybrid warfare through exploitation of human tragedies connected to organised criminal enterprises disguised as managed migration. here our answer should be clear. the eu sanctions targeting industries involved in financing the regime in minsk must be linked to the intensity of lukashenko’s hybrid war against eu member states. dear colleagues, belarus has a political alternative. it has an exiled government. let us work with the government in exile in order to prepare for the moment when democratic forces are going to rule in minsk. (exclamation in bielarusian)
madam president, since 2016, the european union has sent eur 6 billion to turkey. friends, that's 100 million euros a month at a time when european citizens have to cut back, when they have to struggle with the lack of money because of the restrictions, because of covid. we all expected the money to be sent to turkey to end. especially when the geopolitical situation in syria has improved, and especially when this economic corona crisis has occurred. nevertheless, the proposal states that the european union should continue to provide support to syrian and other refugees and host communities in turkey. also, on the forty-five pages of the proposal, it is written in a single sentence, so that the european commission can ensure that turkey does not use migration flows to blackmail the european union. ladies and gentlemen, i do not agree with this unsustainable situation being dragged out any longer. why should we even count asian immigrants as part of the cost of europeans? why should we send billions of extra euros back to turkey?
member of the commission. madam president, mr president of the special committee on foreign interference in the european union's democratic processes as a whole, including disinformation, mr glucksmann, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to welcome the opportunity to present today through the answers to the five questions, which i will of course answer in a moment an overview of all our efforts. we really share the commission's determination to combat disinformation, the manipulation of information and interference in our democratic processes - and you have spoken very highly of this. since 2017, the commission has been working to strengthen the capacity of our societies to understand, detect and counter the threats posed by disinformation. of course, i want to be as clear as you were: these hybrid threats, whether they come from third-party actors or insiders, are actually using platforms as a proliferation agent to, you name it, destabilize our societies. we have adopted several initiatives that guide our ambitions. i would like to remind them, if i may, of the 2018 action plan against disinformation; today, the action plan for european democracy, which was adopted at the end of last year; the commission has already proposed legislation on several aspects, or will soon do so. if platforms improve the speed of information, they obviously facilitate the same speed of disinformation, as you all know. i therefore call on them to take decisive action, in line with their responsibilities, to put a stop to this phenomenon. and i've interacted with them a lot, and i've actually told them all this many, many times, collectively and individually. in answer to your five questions, mr president, let me first recall the framework and structures of coordinated action, before returning to some specific initiatives. let us now turn to the first two questions you asked about increased cooperation and coordination and the link with the member states. i would remind you that our mechanisms of institutional cooperation and coordination at the level of the european union and with the member states have been strengthened in recent years, in particular thanks to the early warning system which is under the responsibility, as you know, of the european external action service. to this end, the authorities of the member states and the commission regularly exchange views on the threats linked to disinformation, manipulation and foreign interference. it is now also facilitating such exchanges with our international partners, be it the g7 or nato, and we are also working closely with the eeas - you guessed it - on a protocol to further strengthen cooperation structures. the commission has therefore set up an internal network, bringing together different services, in order to be able to define a rapid and appropriate response. the commission and the eeas are looking at how to further broaden the range of possible interventions, such as our toolkit to combat foreign interference, as i speak to you. options such as public attribution of disinformation campaigns are also on the table. i would like to turn now to your third question on the implementation of the legislative proposals and the associated codes of conduct. as you know, our proposed digital services legislation introduces harmonised rules to combat illegal content, in particular hate speech. it also creates obligations that can change the game in terms of disinformation, for example by ensuring that users are properly informed about the origin of advertisements that appear online, or that they can set the parameters of recommendation systems that often determine content. the very large platforms will also be required to assess and address systemic risks, including the intentional manipulation of their services with an impact on health, civic discourse, electoral processes and, more generally, public security. one way to mitigate these risks will be to adhere to these codes of conduct. in this way, legislation will create a kind of safety net, if one can say so, which is co-regulated. the commission is currently facilitating the work of the signatories of the code and our expectations are very clear: they were spelled out in our guidelines of last may and we therefore want a robust code by the end of this year, with verifiable and uniform commitments, of course, in all member states and in all the languages of the union. this concerns a number of areas: monetisation of disinformation, intensification of efforts against manipulative behaviour, but also software robots, so-called bots, and increased cooperation with the research community, which must have constant access to this information, because they are doing absolutely essential work. let us now turn to the question of algorithmic transparency and political advertising, which you raised in your fourth question. as you say, the question is of course: it is a very important point that the transparency of the algorithms. the legislation on digital services introduces several measures in this regard around algorithmic content moderation and recommendation or advertising systems. i would like to make it clear to you, ladies and gentlemen: it is absolutely intolerable that algorithms - as we see too often - promote the virality of disinformation content to create traffic, and thus monetisation. this monetisation must end, of course, and with the legislation on digital services and other actions under way, we will provide the means. we also naturally share all your concerns about the collection and combination of personal data from various sources. that's why the digital marketplace legislation this time around prohibits access controllers, gatekeepers, from combining personal data collected from their platform services with other services. finally, as regards transparency in political advertising, the commission will shortly present a specific legislative proposal, because the challenges to be addressed are very numerous and very important. these include political micro-targeting, behavioural profiling based on incorrectly obtained personal data - there are many examples, unfortunately - and misrepresentation of the funding and origin of political messages. your fifth question concerns media education and media diversity, if i may summarize it this way. the role of media literacy and a diverse media ecosystem is absolutely essential. i think you really have to learn it at a young age. these are fundamental pillars of our resilience, which the commission will continue to promote through various programmes and initiatives. we are funding a number of media education actions to this end. at national level, a dedicated expert group works closely with the member states. the commission shall, by autumn 2022, develop common guidelines for teachers to combat disinformation as part of the digital education action plan. support for a diverse and high-quality media landscape obviously involves project funding, but not only. information is a public good, and journalists are the guarantors of it, and they should not be its victims. to make their work safer, my colleague vera jourová and i recently proposed a recommendation to member states to take measures to make the work of journalists safer, both online and offline. unfortunately, there are tragic examples in both cases. other initiatives will follow, including to protect journalists and human rights defenders from abusive litigation, and to increase transparency, independence and accountability for actions affecting the control and freedom of the press. this is what we are trying to do in the media freedom legislation. ladies and gentlemen, the union is making progress on several fronts in the fight against disinformation, and our ability to implement a coherent set of actions is based on effective cooperation at the political level, but also at the operational level. the commission is fully committed to this and i know, of course, that we can count on your support. but i couldn't talk about platforms without talking about the news surrounding one of them. first of all, mrs haugen's revelations about the practices of a platform are important. they are not surprising, however. i said it at the beginning of the year: we can't let a private company decide for itself who can speak and who can be silenced, what can be seen and what should be removed or simply hidden, all because of a mysterious algorithm and without any democratic control process. the purpose of the digital services act is precisely to open up this black box, to restore democratic legitimacy and to ensure that the pursuit of profit does not simply endanger our democratic societies and our children. the platforms, we keep saying so we're going to work on this through the digital services and digital markets legislation have a very strong societal responsibility on the system actors. as for the incident that affected all services on the platform last night, although a network failure can obviously happen to anyone in the digital and computing space, this incident also highlights that resilience is key. billions of users and millions of businesses depend on this infrastructure. because of their size and their strategy of integrating services, some platforms have become, so to speak, too big to crash. our role is to support greater digital resilience through diversification of all actors, regulation, fair competition and also, we come back to it, technological and technical aspects, greater connectivity, redundancy in connectivity, but also a greater interest in everything related to cybersecurity.
for the ppe group. madam president, i will be listening very carefully to every word that the european commission says today. the questions we've asked you are factual and specific. i am confident that your answers will be the same, commissioner. the problem we face in today's online world is huge. it's not something that can be solved by one initiative, one, albeit cleverly-arranged code. the only way we're going to heal the online space is if we join forces and put the ultimate responsibility for the content that they're sharing on social platforms. we need a sincere belief from key political players and lawmakers that regulating online space is the only sensible way to protect facts, scientific knowledge and a functioning democracy in europe. we know that the big social platforms are prioritizing cheap, short-term profit, which they get from conflict, from treacherous attention, often at the expense of a democratic society. and thanks to the pandemic, we know what the consequences of their business are. europe is full of doctors who are not trusted, who experience daily fights in the ambulance, or who harass the devoted health care staff. because the lies on social media have found their way literally into the bowels of our lives. we know that social platforms are not just defenseless actors. we know they know their own problems. they know very well the impact their algorithms have on teenagers' self-image. we know how antivaxers have found a particularly fertile ground in the online space and are literally crippling our health. we see our online space being flooded with lies every day. we see the huge impact it has on our health, education, security. let's stop pretending that the health of our information space is none of our business. ladies and gentlemen, our fundamental duty is to care about how the online space affects the real lives of europeans.
madam president, an ecologically clean and green europe is a prerequisite for the future generations. the energy needs of the sun, the wind, the water, because that is life for europe, human life. but the current generation, which is often living in energy poverty as a result of rising energy prices, living as a vulnerable consumer, also needs to be addressed and addressed. i welcome the commission's decision, or plan, to have a set of instruments on 13 october to force national governments to take action to combat rising energy prices. rising energy prices are actually creating poverty, they're creating consumer vulnerability. unless the european commission deals with it, it's not going to be good. it is regrettable that some national states, including slovakia, have not yet legislated for this, which is a vulnerable consumer.
dear prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, this crisis is a test of the wisdom of our governments. you can artificially lower the price of energy for everyone, but that means that taxpayers' money will not only support the poor, but also the rich. and it doesn't matter whether the energy is produced from dirty fossil fuels or clean, green fuels. residents and businesses are now held hostage in cities that have given in to the gas lobby and failed to make the transition to local renewable resources. unfortunately, this is the case in lithuania's capital, vilnius, where heating bills are increasing by as much as 20 percent. this crisis has shown that gas terminals alone will not solve the problem of lower prices. instead of making loud speeches and looking for enemies, smart governments should act quickly and invest massively in energy conservation, building renovation, green energy, to develop local resources.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are entering a very serious energy crisis: the price of natural gas has increased sevenfold since the beginning of the year, electricity in france has increased by 57% and this is only the beginning. there are two reasons for this. the first is that the european union, through green ideology, is sabotaging nuclear energy, which is clean, totally decarbonised, but excluded from the list of virtuous energies that can be the subject of european funding. it wants to replace it with renewable and intermittent energy. and second, in 2021, the production of alternative energy, by wind turbines and dams, was catastrophic due to climatic circumstances. add to that a shortage of oil, a fourfold increase in the price of coal and a crisis in raw materials, and we have no reserves. the consequences will be incalculable. we risk, as in 2016, massive power cuts if the winter is severe. but it is also industrial production which, for lack of raw materials and electricity, is at risk of being stopped. there will also be tax consequences. it is the consumer who, after having suffered all the energy increases since the beginning of the year, will suffer the impact of the freeze decided from october to april in france, just after the presidential election, as if by chance. there is a miracle solution: european energy independence through nuclear energy, particularly french, and, because we are also concerned about the environment, through investment in research and clean technologies of the future, such as nuclear fusion or thorium. for our sovereignty, for our independence, for our purchasing power, let us support our exceptional technologies, our efficient production and our researchers.
madam president, colleagues, i have called for this debate because european citizens and taxpayers deserve to know who is to blame for the prices they are paying. and the culprits are in this room, not all of them, and part of them are in this room. it's the long-term lobbying of chinese solar and wind power companies. it's the denial of nuclear power. it's the claim that we can only do economics with windmills and solar panels that's guilty. it is also the taxation of our only sovereign resource, coal, to the benefit of the gas exporters who import it and sell it at high prices. and now i hear excuses, it would be very funny to hear these excuses if the european citizens did not pay. we hear excuses for how the wind didn't blow all the time. a colleague discovered that the sun didn't shine at night. good work, colleague, exceptional observation! and for this outrageous behavior, this room has earned the darwin award, collectively, all categories, without competition. but the price is paid by the citizens of europe. what is to be done? a moratorium on emissions trading that enriches various dealers, the development of nuclear energy and the madness green deal has to be stopped.
i have to say, madam president, when we talk about energy prices, about 34 million people in the eu having little or no heating, no hot water, getting sick, we are talking about a central social issue that we have to solve. what we finally need is the right of every human being to energy. we need access to energy as a public good. it's not the market that's gonna decide that. we need a europe-wide ban on power cuts. we need a cap on electricity. we need a real reform of the european electricity market and a social and climate-friendly energy taxation. social justice means fair redistribution, for example through an eco-bonus, which can benefit poor households. and what is more, natural gas is not preventing the rise in energy prices, but only the massive expansion of renewables. and that's what it's got to be.
madam president, energy prices are constantly rising, for natural gas, for fuels in general and for electricity in particular. the colossal increase in electricity prices has effects on households and businesses, has effects on environmental objectives and has effects on inflation. if nothing is done urgently, at european level but also at the level of each national government, this will not be the winter of our discontent. this will be the winter of our freezing! in the iberian market, electricity has never been so expensive. fuels in portugal are increasing all the time: diesel, petrol. the electricity bill, which was already one of the highest in europe in relation to living standards, is now practically unbearable. and what has the portuguese government done to alleviate, mitigate, reduce the energy bill of the portuguese? it maintains the tax on petroleum products and other taxes on fuels, which were introduced temporarily but which are, after all, going on forever. is the government, is prime minister costa willing to reduce these taxes to alleviate the energy bill? and in the medium term, are you determined to put an end to the income from the electricity sector, which in many cases leads to increasingly high electricity bills for consumers, businesses and households? and for vulnerable families, is there a special plan to ease their bill? these are the answers that the portuguese government must give and that the european institutions must also give to consumers and businesses throughout europe.
mr president, in various parts of europe the rise in energy prices has been dramatically rapid, and it is not even winter yet. we see that countries that already have low emissions in the energy sector and diverse zero-emission electricity generation have now managed to survive with the least price competition. the price is soaring because the price of natural gas has increased tenfold and the price of coal has doubled. water reserves are also below average and, at least in finland, the transfer pricing of electricity has become more expensive. in this situation, however, where the price of emission allowances has also risen to a higher level than before, we cannot change course, because it is precisely the price of electricity emissions trading that is leading us away from dependence. i feel sorry for those europeans whose homes are still heated or powered by fossil fuels and who are dependent on price increases. we must immediately seek measures to help consumers and small businesses this winter. we are waiting for the commission's action programmes next week. we must keep a determined course to get ourselves into a better position, if not next winter, then the next winter and the next winters to come. we can also use technology to promote energy efficiency. intelligent control systems can easily cut 20 percent of the energy required. the rrf money has now also been allocated to the recovery and rehabilitation plan. it must also be used wisely to eliminate energy poverty.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the devastating increase in the energy bill is caused by the increase in the price of gas, by our delayed ecological transition, by the lack of investment in renewables and energy efficiency. while gas prices have skyrocketed, the cost of generating electricity from renewable sources has remained stable and low. investing in new gas infrastructure and thinking that we are dependent on actors outside the european union, such as russia, is nothing but economic, environmental, social and geopolitical suicide. increased investment in energy efficiency to reduce consumption and renewable energy, involving citizens in production, is the only way to lower prices and prevent future such situations. i expect the commission to take the necessary short-term measures to deal with the emergency, measures which must focus on consumers, households, artisans and small and mediumsized enterprises, who are vulnerable and increasingly exposed to the concept of energy poverty, to choose between heating or eating. if we do not act quickly, the achievement of the green deal and social cohesion objectives will be jeopardised and the european union's capacity to react will be perceived by european citizens as evanescent.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. do you even get that in our air-conditioned brussels glass temples? millions of people in the eu are afraid of the coming winter. and there are real reasons for this fear. already in the past cold and snowy winter, millions of citizens could no longer afford to heat themselves normally. many were frozen in unheated homes because they could no longer afford the energy bills. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in germany, heating costs rose by 33 percent in september compared with the same month a year earlier. the price of electricity continues to rise astronomically, and the current energy crisis is, to put it bluntly, largely political. this crisis is the result of the disastrous energy policies of the eu and national governments. in germany, around three quarters of the price of electricity is determined by taxes, levies and network charges alone. in the course of the so-called energy transition, prices are artificially increased with full intention for climate protection purposes! the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council by 31 december. and so we are heading for a dark and cold winter for millions of europeans. i would like to make a proposal to you, colleagues in this temperate house: let us be exemplary and show solidarity in protecting the climate this winter. let us simply stop heating all the parliament's premises from november to march, so that we can get a real sense of what the people's expectations of sacrifice are. well, fellow greens and climate change bureaucrats, how about this?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rise in energy prices affects a large part of the population, including the middle class. it hurts our businesses and industries. it threatens the economic recovery. to deal with this problem, with its well-identified causes, from the very beginning of the galloping rise in natural gas prices, the european union needs to take swift and decisive action. however, these must not be seen as a setback in the fight against climate change. the green deal is not a cause of this problem, but the path to a solution. fundamental measures are required: member states, changes in taxation, general interest costs. to the european union: an ambitious programme to improve energy efficiency through the use of new technologies and new financing models for the sector. portugal has one of the most expensive electricity in europe in terms of purchasing power. the cost of energy in my country is a factor blocking the development and competitiveness of companies and industries, it is a burden for households with very high levels of energy poverty. we have a long way to go, but it is urgent and imperative that we do so now.
madam president, after the unprecedented hike in energy prices, at least in some member states, people will have to choose between heating and eating. unbelievable! we have to do our utmost in order to avoid the deepening of energy poverty, which could soon affect up to 80 million people in europe. the suffering people expect us to deliver very concrete measures and not to blame others for our failure. excuse me, but it is not putin’s fault that we are facing this hike in energy prices. the commissioner has said that the long-term contracts from russia are being respected. after what happened around nord stream 2, we can only hope that the russians, defending their business and playing their geopolitical games, would now be willing to increase their supplies, in order to help us and to correct our own faults. so what can we do and what kind of lessons should we learn? first, we should defend people from energy poverty and keep our industry competitive. all member states received a massive income from the emissions trading system to their budgets, so allow them to send a part of these financial resources back to consumers. this could help millions of people to pay financial bills – not only for energy consumption, but for all other goods as well. second, europe should rapidly decrease its dependence on imports of fossil fuels – it doesn’t matter from which source. therefore, we need to use more renewables, including also the greening of the gas industry via hydrogen and biomethane, which should also serve as a backup for unstable wind and solar plants. having said that, it’s impossible that we still rely on the production of coal plants, which is the most dirty energy resource of electricity. third, we need to strengthen our energy security. each member state must create their strategic gas reserves and impose it from all gas supplies in the market as well. to conclude my speech, this gas and electricity price shock is just another crisis, and the eu has to act together if we want to solve it.
madam president, slovakia is one of the countries with a serious problem of energy poverty. too many people are forced to heat in one room and heat with practically anything because gas is too expensive for them. and the current increase in gas and electricity prices will make the situation even worse. all putin had to do was pull the trigger, and we're in trouble in europe. mostly the most vulnerable. the link between gas and electricity prices is also a problem. we need to change the electricity market and help the most vulnerable immediately. but a quick patch won't solve the problem in the long run. the real solution is energy efficiency and green energy. more efficient buildings mean not only lower energy bills, but also jobs, cleaner air and climate protection. green energy also means energy independence from regimes like putin's. solar, wind, and geothermal are already among the cheapest. that's why i'm shocked by the absurd subsidies for fossil gas, like the one for gas boilers for households in slovakia. the real solution is the climate dividend. the money for the emissions allowances should go to the people, not the polluters. promote green solutions and innovation.
for the ecr group. mr president, the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion is an interest shared by all member states. however, i think it is wrong to confuse this interest with the harmonisation of direct taxes, which is the interest of only one group of member states, which would take away a competitive advantage from another group of member states and restrict tax competition. the united states congress has more taxing powers than the european union. however, the united states does not pursue deeper harmonisation, apparently not considering it more effective. let's take that into account. the report focuses on policy support for tax harmonisation rather than on more effective exchange of best practices and comparison of the efficiency of tax systems. i emphasise: instead of more efficient exchange of best practice and comparison of the efficiency of tax systems. i therefore regard the report as a missed opportunity.
madam president, commissioner, the agreement on the resilience and recovery facility is a true european success story, because – despite the massive economic shock of the pandemic – the eu has largely avoided long-term negative impacts, and to a large extent it’s thanks to the rrf. but the eu cannot be a cash machine that does not look at how european taxpayers’ money is spent. for far too long, brussels – the european commission – has turned a blind eye on corruption and misuse of eu funding. european money really cannot be used to build authoritarian regimes or putin’s pals’ palaces, such as the one viktor orbán is currently doing. i really hope the commission by now understands this, because the recovery and resilience facility must be a breakthrough moment for european integration in more ways than just one. yes, it should put us on a path to meet our ambitious climate goals and ambitious digital goals. it should ensure a prosperous future for all europeans. but at the same time, the rrf should also mark the end of an era when governments which are harassing journalists, judges or minorities could still profit from billions in european money without repercussions. i really hope that this moment, this instrument, will be the end of that era.
for the ecr group. the institutions of the banking union have moved on from the financial crisis with reforms improving its stability and resilience. however, the proposal to establish a common deposit guarantee under current conditions would still, in my view, constitute a moral hazard, by shifting the potential costs from one group of euro area members to another. we have not yet exhausted the possibilities for improving the health of the banking sector without additional guarantee schemes. domestic tasks in the form of structural reforms and reducing the level of non-performing loans have still not been met by several euro area members. shared risk must be preceded by clear conditions for reforms and their implementation in such a way as to avoid fiscal black-mail. otherwise, the joint guarantee would be an unfair zero-sum game, where not everyone wins, but everyone loses.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. so there we are. the european union is going to set up another agency. this time, 500 more officials to take care of how immigrants are treated. the regulation literally says that, in particular, in the context of the expected future regulation on the resettlement framework. this new european asylum agency is to monitor the implementation of asylum procedures in european countries, even to have some liaison officers in individual member states and the ability to carry out unannounced checks on how they take care of emigrants, asylum seekers. ladies and gentlemen, the union is not even concerned about the rights of europeans. the agency's work enables it to impose or initiate fines on states that do not comply with asylum procedures as set out by the european union. i say that this is a clear withdrawal of competence from the member states in the assessment of immigration, in the assessment of asylum. i am speaking clearly about the european immigration policy.
madam speaker, what they passed in texas is an inhumane law that does not belong in the 21st century, and anyone who has any respect for human rights must condemn it. i'm glad we're doing that too. but look at what is happening right under our noses, and not just in poland. ultra-conservative parties and political populists use lgbt hate and female uterus dictation to pursue their own political preferences. in slovakia, lawmakers have just moved to second reading a bill that is meant to make abortion access for women much more difficult. even without it, we have entire counties where women do not have legal abortions, even for medical reasons, because doctors exercise conscientious objection. this trend is a real threat to women's health and is in violation of their constitutional rights and their rights enshrined in international conventions. this is a clear breach of the rule of law. it's not enough to deal with poland and texas. we must stop this ultra-conservative madness and the pursuit of women's rights that is slowly taking over modern europe.
madam president, madam commissioner, we should be working seriously and methodically to combat climate change and protect our natural resources. however, i find the opposite in the attitude of the european commission, which presents us with a strategy that favours advertising effects rather than pragmatic objectives based on science. i also find the opposite in its categorical refusal to carry out a global analysis of the impact of this strategy, thus discrediting the objectives it proposes. on the contrary, we need to inspire confidence, believe in progress and stimulate innovation instead of presenting degrowth as the only possible horizon for european agriculture. we need to support our farmers and not burden them with additional constraints and taxes. finally, we need to refocus our trade policy, because without this, it is clear that the climate gains of our policies will be minimal.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the challenges of the climate crisis, the rapid loss of biodiversity, food insecurity, which affects more than 800 million people worldwide, all point to the imminence of a point of no return. avoiding this point is therefore an ethical and survival imperative to which political action must be able to respond. as the pillar of society and of natural resource management, food systems at all stages and with all their actors, from farmer to consumer, from industry to trade, are at the heart of the change that is needed and deserved, and therefore, farmers and fishermen in particular, all the support and all the instruments needed for this change. the message of the report we are debating today reflects the complexity of the task, the result of a challenging exercise, of a difficult balance between visions. this report is an example of the democratic maturity which the european parliament transmits to its citizens and which should be valued.
madam president, our group has always supported an ambitious transition towards a sustainable food system that will not only respect planetary boundaries, but also ensure farmers’ livelihoods and food on our tables. to achieve that, we need to turn farm to fork into reality and then a bit more. without it, it is not possible. change is possible. during the last 15 years more than 90% of europe’s horticulture has moved away from using hazardous pesticides to integrated pest management, and if you go to supermarkets, what do you see? more tomatoes and fresh vegetables all year round. we need to make it happen. we need to cherish our nature. we need to hear our fields buzzing and our soil being alive. i think this is a really big opportunity for the farmers. don’t listen to the scaremongers. we cannot afford the cost of inaction. i hope that as this house has called, we will not only see farm to fork, we will see a protection of soil by a legal framework. we will see action on pesticides and a move to the mandatory target, and we will see a binding protection of pollinators.
in writing. it is our duty at eu level to do everything we can to ensure that the food our citizens, and especially children, consume is not only healthy, safe, but also affordable. ideally, as much of the food we eat should be produced at home, or at least within the eu, in the most environmentally and climate-friendly way possible. without real changes in the way food is produced, nature and the climate will suffer more and more. this is why the new 'from farm to fork' strategy is certainly welcomed by everyone, with the aim of reducing the use of pesticides and fertilisers and increasing the scale of organic farming. but we must do so without causing the devastating declines in meat, cereal and even fruit production, or the appreciable reduction in farmers' incomes that researchers at the eu's joint research centre have also warned would threaten the implementation of the proposed strategy. the reduced production in the eu would certainly be replaced by imports of less organic food from third countries, which would not only worsen the eu's trade balance but also jeopardise our objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural activity. in short, the strategy sets itself noble objectives, the achievement of which must be further supported by concrete measures to mitigate any possible negative impact on farmers and consumers.
in writing. the cultural and creative industries have been significantly affected by the covid-19 pandemic. the measures to stop the spread of the virus have meant the cancellation of events, performances, exhibitions and festivals, all of which have had a negative impact on our societies, but most dramatically, of course, on the lives of specific people who have lost income for months on end. the crisis has exposed and further exacerbated the problems existing in the sector, which undoubtedly include the precarious employment situation of artists and cultural workers, as atypical forms of employment are often used. it would therefore be appropriate to establish a european artist status, which would set a framework for the working conditions and minimum social standards of artists across the eu. it is also important to keep the cultural and creative industries in mind when providing support from financial assistance instruments such as investeu or nextgenerationeu. europe must ensure that what defines it - a rich, vibrant and productive cultural and creative scene - is not lost. the eu's cultural and creative industries are likely to have a long recovery from this crisis, and it is therefore crucial that we do everything we can to help them recover.
madam president of the european commission, mr prime minister of poland, mr morawiecki, i have only one minute, and therefore i will say this quite frankly and politically incorrectly. a message to liberals: please stop bullying central europe for purposefully invented failures and mistakes! whatever those hungarians and poles do, you always find some reason why you want to punish them, why you want to piss them off. let's not make up stories, let's be honest. this european rule of law that you are promoting here is nothing but an alternative tool to how you want to push the liberal agenda into the conservative central european states. and on behalf of the conservative-minded citizens of the slovak republic, i declare that poland has our full support in protecting its sovereignty. and to the liberals in the west, i say: do not provoke us, do not provoke central europe! let's go back to why the european union was created, to economic cooperation, to trade that benefits everyone, but don't try to impose on us an ideology and a way of life that we don't agree with.
mr president, first of all, it’s good to be brutally honest about why we are having this debate. the ruling of the polish constitutional tribunal is not a product of some grand legal or philosophical dispute over competences or democracy or constitutionalism. nor is it meant to protect the treaty, as the prime minister would have us believe. the reality, unfortunately, is much simpler. your government, your party, wanted to centralise power and take control over the independent judiciary in poland, and the european court of justice stood in the way. it became an obstacle. so you had the constitutional tribunal remove the obstacle and clear the way, and it is as simple as that. the problem is that if every member state government acted in this way, with such contempt for common rules and such disregard for how it affects others in the community, there would be no european union. take my country, slovakia, which is also grappling with reforming a post-communist judiciary and rooting out corruption. however, for us to succeed, we critically rely on the integrity of rule of law in the eu. now, one of our closest partners in central europe ˗ a nation whose bravery we admire so much and whose leadership in europe we so desperately need ˗ has decided to throw everything in doubt and to risk everything. by everything, i mean the eu’s legal order, the authority of the ecj, protection of citizens’ rights, the single market ˗ basically, the integration story of the past decades. this is precisely why the european parliament, why this house, insists on the suspension of money from the recovery and resilience funds. this is precisely why the commission and the council must finally act after years and years of dialogue which brought no results. it is not to punish poland. it is not to intimidate poland. it is not to blackmail poland. it is to protect our own values and protect the european project. mr prime minister, while you may no longer care about its future, the rest of us ˗ the majority of citizens, poles and slovaks and others ˗ still very much do.
mr. chairman, every month, every week, every day we hear: poland, poland, poland. what in god's name did poland do to you? i have at my disposal the judgment of the german constitutional court in karlsruhe. i also have at my disposal the judgment of the polish constitutional court. there's no problem between them from a procedural standpoint. but it seems that poland cannot afford what germany can. this is not a political issue. this is a problem of interpretation of european law, of interpretation of constitutional law, and dialogue is needed. it's the only way. otherwise, we will create a european union where mrs von der leyen will be the queen, there will be no need for national courts and some political group will decide. and as far as poland is concerned, now in polish: poland is and will be a sovereign nation-state. poland is and will be in europe. i'm polish.
mr president, i say to prime minister morawiecki: we’ve heard today that nearly nine out of ten citizens of poland are in favour of european union membership. are you actually telling your people that questioning the primacy of the european court of justice is endangering the membership of poland in the european union? are you telling them that your ecj criticism and the questioning of the primacy of the ecj rulings are putting in question all the donations, all the subsidies, all the money that is going to come towards poland in the favour of citizens? are you telling them that? no, you are not, you are flooding them with lies. but we do, and don’t expect polish citizens to not find out on how you are tricking them. you’re seeing them going to the street and you will face the consequences. you will face them in the next democratic elections. you will see how polish citizens will end your ruling, definitely and finally. take that.
mr president, this debate is about europe, our europe and every european. it is about european commitment to principles and public trust across our union. the european project flourishes thanks to the predictability and responsibility of political and legal institutions. the alternative is pure power politics based on numbers and force, power politics in which all of us in europe can only become losers. polish citizens were united in their support of poland’s eu membership in the referendum that led to their accession. polish citizens fought very hard to be part of this community and there is no way that one party, that a couple of reckless politicians, will step by step undo this historic commitment. as a student in the uk in the 1990s, i remember very well the beginnings of a movement towards brexit. the poles today, just like the brits back then, kept on swearing their fully-fledged and unwavering allegiance to the european union, until the uk referendum in 2016 changed everything. nobody, nobody should underestimate the treacherous power of public anti-eu campaigns. polish institutions have a responsibility towards all european citizens, but also geopolitically towards their neighbours. i ask the prime minister: how can ukrainians and belarusians fight for their democratic and european aspirations if polish politicians begin to dismantle the very principles of our own community? i was happy to see hundreds of thousands of poles who peacefully and resolutely demonstrated their attachment to european poland at main squares across their country and who protested against their government, which is trying to undo poland’s successful return to europe. dear poles, we are here to support you, for what really is at stake is europe’s future, peace and the stability of our common institutions.
rapporteur for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, requested for an opinion. madam president, i consider the main problem with the european budget to be its orientation towards outputs rather than results. the european court of auditors has raised a red flag, for example, over the common agricultural policy, recommending that reliable indicators be developed to assess its impact. the investeu flagship fund evaluates some of its achievements by the number of businesses supported. however, the effectiveness of the use of public resources is not measured by how much common money has been given out, but by the added value it has brought to citizens. in this context, i consider the investigation of the european anti-fraud office to be a mistake. the increase in the european budget must go hand in hand with the reinforcement of the staffing of its control bodies.
madam president, in the context of today's debate, i expect the european union to recognise the right to a healthy environment. environmental protection is still not successfully integrated into european union policies. the lists of extinct species are growing unabated. the climate crisis is getting serious. yet the speaker of the national parliament finds himself able to label nature conservation ecoterrorism. hate speech and aggression against conservationists and environmentalists are alarmingly widespread. in politics, we accept as a tax on progress activities that damage the environment and threaten our own survival and prosperity. we must guarantee the right of all citizens to a favourable, healthy, diverse and stable environment, both for the present and for future generations. it is a basic human right, which is essentially the right to life. the eu must have this right enshrined and be able to guarantee, defend and enforce it.
madam president, i understand that some europeans, after a year of a pandemic that has limited all of our lives, are being asked to voice their disagreement with the regulations that governments are adopting. but we cannot allow their anger to blind them to the truth of fascists and populists. extremists today are doing what hitler once did. they feed off misery and tell people what they like, not what they need. today it is not enough to save health and social conditions or jobs. today, we must fight against populists and fascists who, under the guise of loving words, spread hatred, annoy people and at the same time gain popularity. there are the same fascists who deny the holocaust. the same aggressors who incite violence in the streets. their ambition is not to save lives or health or to save jobs. their only ambition is to gain the power they desire. the hatred that neo-nazis spread is a threat that we cannot underestimate. i myself, as an ethnic roma, have been the target of various attacks. the threats of physical liquidation of me and my family went so far that we had to have police protection from the same fascists and aggressors who are today roaring against the measures. what is happening now not only in italy is an urgent challenge for the whole of the european union. we need to communicate better with people. people can't be afraid of ending up with no income in uncertainty. but we must stand up to those who spread the ideology of fascism and extremism as criminals, because fascism has nothing to do with freedom of speech. fascism is a crime.
madam president, fascism, nationalism, anti-semitism, racial superiority, two world wars, the guillotine, colonialism, slavery, the concentration camps are the worst thing that man could have created. but it is true that the creators of these perverse ideologies historically are our western european friends. we, the civilized peoples of eastern europe, have never been the creators of such perverse ideologies. it is therefore our duty as the civilized peoples of eastern europe - czechs, slovaks, poles, hungarians - to take care and watch that the idea of creating some kind of ideology to dominate all of europe does not arise in the minds of our friends and with them. it's our duty. and finally, as a slovak, i am proud that slovakia has the most awarded righteous among the nations: jad vasem.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for raising this very important discussion at the plenary today. as president von der leyen stated in last year’s state of the union speech, hate is hate and no one should have to put up with it. we have solid legislation for tackling racism, discrimination and extremist violence. we also have robust policy initiatives in place to support the member states in undertaking their obligations, and we expect them to do their part. this is not a battle between right and left, or between conservatives and progressives. it is a battle between the promoters of democracy, human rights and equality and those that reject these principles. at eu level, we have to take a clear stance and act accordingly, not only through words, but with concrete actions. we must all do our part, and i thank you for it.
the chairman of the council. ladies and gentlemen, the president, the commissioner. pluralism, freedom of expression and tolerance are our common values. but we must win them and save them every day as a society and as individuals. this is why education systems, public debate and credible media reporting are important. the european council has stepped up its activities in this area in recent years. it has adopted, for example, a series of concrete measures against violent extremism and terrorism, as well as conclusions on the external action of the european union in the field of combating terrorism and violent extremism. the council will continue to monitor such discussions closely and will draw timely and firm attention to any deviations towards radicalisation of the activity or dialogue.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
the unaffiliated members have notified the chair of the decision on the change regarding appointments within a committee. this decision will be included in the minutes of today's sitting and shall enter into force on the date of this announcement.
rapporteur. – madam president, methane is a powerful greenhouse gas, warming the planet 80 times as much as carbon dioxide over a 20-year period before degrading to co2. we should provide a fair, comprehensive and clear legislative framework, setting binding measures and methane reduction targets covering all sectors, leading to a significant reduction of methane emissions in the eu by 2030. ahead of cop26, a challenge is arising. by concluding a global agreement on reducing methane emissions, we can ensure a new era of fast-track reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. after the announcement by the president of the commission, ursula von der leyen, and the us president, joe biden, of the global methane pledge – an initiative to reduce global methane emissions to be launched at the un climate conference in glasgow in november – we have to start working intensively in order to prepare the legislative framework as soon as possible, and to engage all relevant stakeholders. more than half of global methane emissions stem from human activities in three sectors: energy, waste and agriculture. in this framework, it is important to proceed with an ambitious revision of our environmental legislation. the upcoming methane regulatory measures should strive to achieve significant emissions reductions, swiftly and as cost-effectively as possible, and provide incentives and support to companies to achieve performance standards in an optimal manner, while fully respecting the ‘polluter pays’ principle. in the energy sector, inputs account for over four-fifths of the oil and gas consumed in the eu, and most methane emissions associated with oil and gas are occurring outside eu borders. that’s why we must explore regulatory tools on fossil energy inputs, develop methods with importing and partner countries to align our efforts, and secure a un-based pathway on methane as soon as possible. in the meantime, we could proceed with bilateral agreements with these exporting partner countries. it is necessary also to provide credible data, identify issues and efficient measures and assess the progress achieved. a mandatory mrv (measurement, reporting and verification) system would improve member states’ reporting to the un framework convention on climate change, and a strong leak and detection repair system is also a critical element for our strategy. we should encourage the commission to proceed with initiatives on the mitigation of methane from coal mines. it is important for us to include the closure of abandoned sites. in greece, we have western macedonia and the megalopolis lignite centre. it is important, finally, to ensure that we provide financial aid so that the cost will not be paid by our citizens. we also have to support the establishment of an independent international methane emissions observatory, in partnership with the united nations developmental programme and the climate and clean energy coalition under the international energy agency (iea). at the same time, we need to ensure a just transition for sectors in which methane emissions reductions may have socio-economic impacts, especially for agriculture. we have to incentivise farmers and smes to adapt, provided that a lot of innovative best practices are in place. it is important to establish a framework that incentivises and rewards farmers, along with the entire value chain, and especially front runners for their efforts. in the waste sector, we should support member states and regions to stabilise biodegradable waste prior to disposal, increase its use to produce climate neutral, secure and bio-based materials and chemicals, and divert this waste towards bio-gas production. we must provide specific incentives suited to each member state’s conditions to ensure separate collection of bio-waste, to the maximum possible extent, including by encouraging public private sector cooperation. to conclude, i would like to thank all my colleagues and the shadow rapporteur for the collaboration and support during the negotiation process. we have managed to finalise a very balanced report and to send the right message to our citizens: by reducing methane now, we will prevent nearly 0.3 degrees celsius of warming by 2045. the immediate implementation of methane reduction measures for human sources of methane could reduce methane emissions by as much as 45% by 2030. as the president of the commission declared, on the road to cop26, we will reach out to global partners to bring as many as possible on board for tackling methane emissions with the eu green deal and the eu methane strategy, we are ready to lead the way.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and congratulate ms spyraki on the very good, very balanced, report and for the good cooperation with the committee on industry, research and energy (itre). i also congratulate commissioner kadri simson on the good new strategy to reduce methane emissions. we need to strengthen the business case for capturing methane emissions. the main points for itre: highlighting the role of gas in energy transition and also highlighting the work done so far by the gas industry; leak detection and repair (ldar) and measurement, reporting and verification (mrv) as the key priorities to ensure better understanding of methane emissions to better data and more adequate reduction of emissions; compulsory mrv and ldar framework that also includes imports in order to have an equal playing field for the industry. we welcome the commission’s consideration of rules banning routine venting. we call for stronger measures and incentives for methane emissions in coalmines in a specific programme to address methane emissions from abandoned and closed coalmines. and finally, recognising the role of infrastructure operators in tackling methane leaks and calling for incentives.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for inviting me to this timely discussion. the commission welcomes the parliament’s own-initiative report on our methane strategy prepared by ms spyraki and its recommendations. many of them are in line with, and endorse, the actions set out in the commission’s strategy. methane has accounted for roughly 30% of global warming since pre—industrial times and is proliferating faster than at any other time since record—keeping began in the 80s. the most rapid and cost effective methane emissions savings can be achieved in the energy sector. this is why we are preparing a legislative proposal to reduce methane emissions in the energy sector for adoption in december this year. it will rest on the following key pillars: improve the accuracy of information on the exact amounts and main sources of methane emissions to allow for more effective and more targeted methane abatement measures, and achieve immediate emission reductions across the energy supply chain by intervening on those fronts where action is possible. this includes mandatory leak detection and repair and limiting venting and flaring. we are also exploring the possibility to incentivise methane emission reductions outside the eu from our trading partners. the eu is a global fossil fuel importer and must use this leverage to foster methane emissions commitments among its suppliers. this can only be a progressive process, and we will work on further measures once more accurate and reliable data becomes available. i also want to underline that, alongside this proposal, we have been working with our energy partners and other key fossil importing countries to tackle methane emissions globally. thanks to eu energy diplomacy and partnership with the united nations environment programme (unep), in october 2020, the independent international methane emissions observatory (imeo) was created. furthermore, in september 2021, the union and the united states announced the global methane pledge, which represents a political commitment to reduce collectively global methane emissions by 30% by 2030. so far, 36 countries have committed their support, representing one third of total world methane emissions. many more are expected to join. the pledge will be launched at the cop26 in glasgow. the european parliament report also covers environmental legislation. we are now reviewing these parts and the options set out in the report in the ongoing impact assessments. moreover, the revision of the industrial emissions directive (ied) will look into measures such as methane emissions from relevant sectors – agriculture, industry and energy – whilst ensuring that there is no overlap in regulation. agriculture also has a significant potential to deliver on methane emissions savings. a range of mitigation technologies and practices are available. these are mainly related to the improvement of animal diets, herd management, manure management and soil protection, breeding, herd health and animal welfare. the current common agricultural policy (cap) is supporting mitigation actions for methane reduction in the livestock sector. in the post—2020 cap, the higher level of flexibility will give member states the possibility to design a specific combination of interventions for reducing emissions from agriculture. the commission is encouraging member states to include methane reduction schemes in their strategic plans for the cap. a significant share of global methane emissions in the agriculture sector originates outside of the eu. the commission and the member states have been very active in various international fora for reducing emissions from agriculture and agri—food systems. in conclusion, i welcome the spyraki report and take it as an encouragement for the commission to move forward with these bold and concrete legislative measures. i am looking forward to continuing the excellent cooperation with the parliament on this topic.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank mrs spyraki and congratulate her on her report. methane is a huge problem: it's the second most important greenhouse gas. even though it has a shorter lifespan than co2, it has a much higher greenhouse gas potential. the next ten years, we don't know exactly, but the next ten years will be crucial to avoid dangerous tipping points in the climate system, such as the thawing of the permafrost in siberia. so too much methane in the next decade can mean very, very much methane for our children and our grandchildren, and then we can't control climate change. but i am very much in favor of not making this a fight between climate change and agriculture. farmers are part of the solution. they also offer many lowlands, for example through the cultivation of humus or sustainable forestry. that is why we should not stigmatize them, but work with farmers to reduce methane emissions. we should prevent leaks in the gas sector and we should finally ensure that no waste ends up in landfills in europe. this has to stop, because it's also producing methane, and we're destroying important resources that our children still need. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. climate change is not a national or purely european problem. we need international cooperation, and we need to keep going.
the s&d group is calling for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's climate action plan is implemented. methane is the second largest contributor to climate change after co2, accounting for more than 10% of total greenhouse gas emissions in europe, and contributes to the formation of ozone in the lower atmosphere, a potent air pollutant that causes serious health problems. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs spyraki, and the other honourable members for the work they have done to produce this report, in which we are asking the commission to ensure that the european union's strategy for reducing methane emissions includes the creation of a comprehensive legislative framework on methane emissions, with binding measures in all sectors - energy, recycling, agriculture and livestock in particular - the imposition of import control measures on emissions throughout the value chain - the european union leads the control policies but must impose them on its partners abroad - and the prohibition of practices such as venting and burning, as well as the commitment to the conversion of agricultural and livestock waste into biogas and the involvement of member states by introducing effective and sustainable measures in their national strategic plans, which must be strictly monitored by the commission. the commission should incorporate these and other measures in this report into its legislative proposal for reducing methane emissions in the energy sector, which it will present in december. we cannot fail to commit ourselves to making europe the first climate-neutral continent by 2050, to implementing the european green deal and to contributing to the well-being and health of citizens today and for future generations.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, we have to do the utmost to limit the global warming to 1.5 degrees. we got a taste this summer and honestly, i think we are standing on the brink of a climate disaster. but there is no chance to achieve this if we don’t act on methane, if we don’t properly act on methane, and act now, because honestly, we have overlooked it way too much. i’m not going to repeat the words of maria spyraki about potency and the timeline, but it’s clear that we have something on our hands where we clearly need to act. sadly, we don’t really even have a proper overview. we see the releases of documentations about the previously unknown leaks all around the world, and this is something which needs to call us even more urgently to action. we need to act above all in the energy sector. mrv and ldar – these might be shortcuts, but they are really important words. we need to ban routine flaring and venting, and we need to act at home and abroad, because not just climate has no boundaries, but most of our footprint is abroad. and it will provide a level playing field for european businesses. we have to look at our agriculture – not just the cows’ diet, our diet; together with the farmers, not against the farmers. we have to solve the landfills with circular economy, and we have to take methane to the global stage in glasgow. i hope that we will see some proper action led by europe there as well. madam commissioner, i hope that what we see from you is soon also an ambitious legislation that will not only deliver for this house but for our future.
thank you, colleague. it’s my unpleasant duty to remind everyone that badges and banners are not allowed, even on clothing, in this house.
madam president, madam commissioner, restricting women's right to decide about their own bodies is perhaps one of the most humiliating pieces of legislation we can see in the european union today. and the polish decision last year is particularly drastic and dangerous in this context. first of all, of course, for women's health, but also for human rights and the fundamental values of the european union in general. the commission has not yet received any comments from the complainant. but it's not just a polish problem anymore. today, we see this ultraconservative radical agenda spreading to other countries. in my country, slovakia, today, today, the members of parliament are debating a proposal to make access to abortion more difficult, which would mean moving closer to the polish model. it's the fifth attempt in slovakia and this time it's in danger of finally succeeding. on this sad anniversary, i would like to express my solidarity and support to polish women. all the women who have to endure the health risks and humiliation of the medieval ideology of some politicians.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the western balkans belong to the european union. we need to set a clearer timetable for accession to the union for individual countries in the region. north macedonia had to change its current name after a dispute with greece a few years ago. it was a deal that was hard for many to swallow, but one that was accepted. however, bulgaria has now vetoed the idea of north macedonia even being allowed to start accession negotiations. the commission, for its part, has once again made clear that north macedonia and albania have met the requirements for opening negotiations. then we are obliged to keep our end of the bargain. it is of course absolutely crucial that the countries of the western balkans overcome systematic corruption and fully live up to the eu's fundamental values of the rule of law before there can be any talk of membership. each country in the western balkans must now be evaluated on its own merits, while a clear timetable for individual countries is needed to make people in the region feel the hope of eu membership.
mr. president, i have to go. the honourable commissioner mairead mcguinness, the esteemed minister anje logar. i am pleased that we are discussing today the outcome of the western balkans summit held in brno. we have the order of thessaloniki 2003, recently sofia 2018, zagreb 2020, brdo 2021. i mean, we've been talking about this for almost 20 years, and as we can see, the biggest initiative, the initiative in this process is from those countries that are close to the western balkans. i think it's because we're the ones who are most aware of how volatile this region is, how we're connected to it, how it's affecting us, whether we're looking at the migrant crisis or, if you will, looking at russia, turkey, china, all of them, building up their influence in this part of europe. it is no secret that the process has certain problems, on the one hand, and within the eu on the other. we have, in my opinion, an unnecessary blockade of macedonia at this point. i certainly think we should open the process for macedonia and albania. on the other hand, we have problems in the region itself. we still have unresolved border disputes between serbia and kosovo, then problems inside bosnia. however, the functioning of the rule of law is something that should be strengthened. but when we look at it all together, we see that the process of young people moving into the european union is actually happening. and these people are coming into the european union, which is maybe good for any of the member states, but a real disaster for this area. i therefore hope that our government will be able to step up these efforts and that these enlargement processes will take place as soon as possible and that, above all, as soon as possible, the people of the western balkans will regain their confidence in the european union and their faith in the future of the european union, which has been weakening in this area in recent times.
mr president, the declaration after the western balkans summit started with a promise of unequivocal support. it left me a bit confused. what does this actually mean? the commitment to a substantial investment package of eur 30 billion is very welcome. is that it? or is it the merit-based approach, but with new demands and surprise vetoes after meeting the criteria? words matter. instead of unequivocal support, we can also say: ‘yes, we will fight with you for your future in the eu. no promises on dates. no false hope. but if you deliver to the highest standards, we want you to be part of it.’ countries perfectly understand we will remain fair and strict. it is in their own interests and in ours. strict on all our values and equally strict for member states watering down on them. so no orbán-vučić-friendly approach advancing the serbian candidacy while there are great concerns and no instrumentalising tensions and endangering the dayton agreement. but yes, to your leadership in pushing the council to now deliver for north macedonia and albania and to grant visa liberalisation for kosovo.
mr president, the eu western balkans summit took place in arguably a very difficult period for both the european union and our partners in the western balkans. the covid-19 pandemic is not over. it continues to limit the lives of people and put a strain on the healthcare systems in the region. i would like to welcome the unprecedented assistance that the eu has provided and continues to provide to the region during these challenging times. in this respect, i would like to praise also serbia for becoming a regional vaccination hub. however, it is now time to deliver the vaccines to the people in the region. our european commitment is all the more important as we are witnessing inflammatory rhetoric in a number of countries across the western balkans. it is crucial that we categorically stop any further de-escalation and support a european spirit in reconciliation and bilateral issues. in this respect, i do welcome this week’s joint statement by state secretary antony blinken and high representative josep borrell on eu-us joint engagement in the region. we across the european union must show genuine interest in the european perspective for the countries in the western balkans. this means, at the very least, opening the negotiations with north macedonia and albania, and including our partners actively in the conference on the future of europe as soon as possible. this week, we also discussed the 2021 enlargement package. allow me a couple of quick remarks on two countries. one, serbia, is entering a super election year. it will therefore be very important for the country to assure the upcoming months are dedicated to opening up the political landscape for free, competitive and fair elections. this means, on the one hand, that implementation of the european parliament-led inter-party dialogue agreement is crucial. on the other hand, that all political forces compete in the elections. also, the situation on the ground demonstrates that we need serious and continuing engagement from both belgrade, and especially pristina, towards work on a comprehensive and legally-binding agreement. montenegro has been the frontrunner in the accession process for many years but has been standing still during the past year. we need to see clear pro-european action by politicians in montenegro, not only declaratory words about europe. last sentence, if we demand deeds from our partners in the western balkans, we have to be serious about our own delivery.
for the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mrs charanz, for the quality of her work. the result is also consistent with this, and i wholeheartedly support it. the new rules on compulsory insurance will bring several changes, but also an important role for the member states. if a citizen living in, for example, slovakia or another member state bought a vehicle in, for example, germany, he had to insure it there for transport. after the new one, he'll just have to insure it in slovakia. if you drive without an accident and you come to a member state where those who drive without an accident have cheaper insurance, you will be entitled to get it too, like the slovak, the czech, the hungarian, the pole. the requirements for insuring vehicles will also change. electric bicycles and garden tractors will no longer require insurance. a fast electric skateboard with a speed of over 15 miles per hour is now a new one. however, member states were also given the possibility of derogations. for example, not requiring insurance for vehicles that only drive on private land, as the risk of causing harm to someone in this way may be low. it will be for the member states to consider how to set up exceptions so that we can rely on the guarantee fund only for damage that is worth relying on.
in writing. it is once again evident that the sanctions that the european union has repeatedly imposed on belarus in several successive waves are not having the desired effect, namely the democratisation of the belarusian regime. in retaliation, belarus president alexander lukashenko is encouraging the import of thousands of migrants from the middle east to the borders of neighboring poland and lithuania, so that they can penetrate the territory of the european union. i don't think that the more and more sanctions that eu diplomatic chiefs are already looking to impose today will deter the belarusian regime from even using human beings as shields in its campaign against the union. building walls may protect eu countries, but it is contrary to the values we are committed to upholding. but i think the basis of everything is honest negotiations, regardless of what we think about this totalitarian regime, as the humanitarian situation at the border escalates. otherwise, there is a risk that the escalation of tensions could escalate into an open conflict between the eu and belarus.
madam president, this report is a good and reasonable compromise. i believe the rapporteurs appreciate all too well how difficult it is to propose feasible instruments in such a complicated and sensitive environment as the media sector. freedom and independence of media have been under increasing pressure across the member states, and we cannot sit idly in eu institutions. it is our duty to support journalists and activists in europe. in central europe, my region, we have learned on many occasions that it is precisely their work – the voice of independent and free reporters – that keeps us from sliding into impunity when authoritarian politicians catch our public institutions. we need stronger europe and clearer european rules to fight slapps that undermine the efforts of brave journalists. journalists deserve public respect, solid and secure working conditions, just like other professions in any vibrant democracy. in an era dominated by manipulated disinformation, our public information space needs true professionals and europe, dear colleagues, must help them thrive.
in writing. i am pleased that, after more than five years since the panama papers scandal broke and the commission published its proposal for this directive, an agreement has finally been reached between the council and the ep, which will increase the tax transparency of large companies. it's something that's been needed for a long time. this is undoubtedly of great importance, because for too long the eu has been watching as large corporations exploit the lack of common rules. the adoption of this agreement is an important element in the fight against international tax evasion and avoidance, and increases the tax transparency that is essential to achieve tax justice. the directive will put an end to the ability of large multinationals to hide and will require them to disclose tax information, including where they make their profits, where and how much they pay taxes, their turnover and their losses. i also think it is important because tax havens are also in the eu and in this way we get information about the individual member states and the situation in them. of course, disclosure alone will not completely solve the problem of tax evasion, but it is a step in the right direction.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. in the european union, the state finances primary and partly secondary education with public money. it often happens that graduates leave for poorer countries to richer countries, which in turn send them billions of euros through complicated eurogroup funds. for example, 17 percent of students from slovakia go to foreign universities. in 2010, it was 14 percent, so the problem is growing. i think it would be better if richer countries directly funded teachers in poorer countries instead of projects that are associated with huge bureaucracy, sometimes inefficiency, according to the european court of auditors, even corruption.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. a few weeks ago, i met in person with the head of the european anti-fraud office, ville itälä mitetelov. slovakia is a small country and lagged far behind in the use of eu funds. but as far as the misuse of eu funds is concerned, especially under the former smer governments, slovakia excelled. evidence is also provided by another dubious case from the time of former prime minister peter pellegrini and his deputy prime minister in charge of informatization, richard rashi, which concerns a secret it project related to the cybersecurity of our country, worth more than fifty million euros, funded by the european union. this case, like many others of the previous smer governments, whether pellegrini or fico, not only undermines citizens' trust in politicians, public institutions, democracy and the rule of law as such, but also damages the financial interests of the union, which is already, of course, a criminal offence. it remains to be hoped that the newly created european public prosecutor's office, in cooperation with the law enforcement authorities in the member states, in this case in slovakia, will act to ensure that the actors in this case are duly punished.
in writing. last week, the united states and the european union finally settled their years-long dispute over tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. this was another positive development after several recent developments had last weighed on the eu's generally positive relationship with the us. the united states is and will remain our most important strategic ally. it is also positive that the new trade and technology council started with hope a month ago. intensive dialogue strengthens mutual trust and understanding. we have common interests and we face enormous challenges that we should focus on. so we're going to look for common solutions to the gaps in the semiconductor supply chains. the global semiconductor supply crisis is probably the biggest stumbling block to post-pandemic economic recovery and is already costing jobs, especially in germany. the eu and the us should tackle this problem together. the trade and technology council should address other pressing issues. this includes, for example, common rules on artificial intelligence or the platform economy, as well as our relationship with china. this is where we should strategically coordinate more closely with washington. the momentum of the first meeting must now be taken up and transatlantic cooperation strengthened.
in writing. the policy of the new us administration promises a change in approach to international trade relations and in particular a strengthening of ties with the european union. the good news is that this is starting to happen in an area that will have a huge impact on the future, and that is modern technology. if we can agree on common standards with the american side, we will be leaders that other countries will follow. it will be good news if these negotiations open the way for the renewal of a broad trade agreement.
in writing. dialogue with the us on major global challenges such as cybersecurity, artificial intelligence or data protection is crucial. it is through cooperation with our atlantic partners that we can carve out a leading role in the international technological landscape. there are, however, issues to consider. while i welcome the fact that there have been openings on the issue of steel and aluminium duties, i believe that they would only benefit some exporters and risk exacerbating the supply problem that is now characteristic of the post-pandemic era. we must not be hypocrites. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that the next meetings will also be characterized by cooperation, for our interests and to counter the growing market power of china. finally, i would like to reiterate what i have said in the past: the dialogue with the united states must be conducted in a continuous and consistent manner, unencumbered by democratic or republican sympathies.
the rapporteur. madam president, political parties are indispensable pillars of a pluralistic democracy. free to organise themselves, free to intervene in the political debate and to animate it, they structure the political landscape while highlighting their specificity and diversity. their freedom of expression - it has become commonplace to repeat it - should not be restricted to the point of stifling political debate. our european model is built on the irreducibility of the dignity of the person. the individual who breaks this rule is in conflict with the law, but it is not clear why this rule should not apply to parties as well. this report informs the commission of parliament's wish to enable european parties and foundations to concentrate on their political mission. to this end, it abolishes the requirement for parties to publish their accounts in ifrs, an obligation which would not meet any need and has never met any need. the report also opens the door to parties active in countries outside the european union. parties from the council of europe member states may, if they so wish, join european parties. we therefore call on the commission to include in its legislative proposal the possibility for parties to also participate financially in a referendum campaign in a member state where the issue of that campaign impacts the functioning of the european union, in particular. this is, of course, just one example among many, reflecting the rapporteur's desire to make existing provisions and regulations more flexible. as regards the funding of european parties and foundations, i am not going to hide from you that as rapporteur, my clear preference is for the model of financial support to parties based on the number of members of the european parliament who sit under the banner of their party. finally, to limit myself to the essentials, i would point out that the report refers to transnational lists, which will of course only become a reality if there is the political will to do so. i would not like to conclude without a friendly thought for my co-rapporteur colleague rainer wieland, with whom i agreed on almost everything, and my thanks, of course, also go to my team.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank mr goerens in return, and i do not want to give the impression that we have a great deal of disagreement. i think we pulled on the same string, even at the same end and in the same direction. but i will not hide the fact that i would have liked to go a little further, and i will try to show that. i do not want to focus on the 98% of the report where we agreed not only between the rapporteurs but also across most of the parties. i want to deal with what is perhaps still controversial now and what will be decided by a quarrel later on. there is the question of the logo and the question of transnational lists - both important questions. but we believe that this is not part of the funding debate, but part of the voting rights debate. and i think the house in general always tends to leave scent marks everywhere, even where they might not belong. secondly, we want to strengthen the formation of political party families in europe as an important part of visibility, as an important part of a european public and therefore also as an important part of what we must succeed in doing so. we want the citizens to see that there is an election campaign and that there are differences between the parties, and we want to put fewer chains on the parties. i would like to see something more, however, that we tackle the abuses we have had in the existing legislation and that we also open up more opportunities to parties that are starting up, or that we also help parties that do have votes, perhaps even a considerable number of votes, but no mandates. we have abuses. we have seen in the past that members of parliament have joined forces on the basis of mandates, formed parties and acted under the motto 'take up arms and run!' and then, when parliament said, 'we want money back,' there was no one left to hold accountable. i think the right approach is to rely on votes and that the votes that have been acquired in party families, that they are also a measure of support. and when a party changes, a party family, the votes go with it. but we shouldn't be doing this on a mandate basis anymore, because there's too much room for abuse. i also believe that we should honour those who run in the european elections, join a european party family. and if you think about it, in a country where you have six or seven mps, you need more than 10 percent of the vote to even get a mandate. i think we should also honour the votes from those countries which did not lead to a mandate and not continue to support the closed job that we are often accused of. unfortunately, the groups which are usually vocal against the closed job are not in agreement. and i hope that this debate will also provide reasons why we should support the opening of the supposedly closed job, which is always lamented, why we should support the legislation on the key points, which will of course apply from 2024, why we should not support it.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, democracy is one of the fundamental values on which the european union is founded. european political parties and the foundations linked to them fulfil an essential role in representative european democracy. they create a direct link between the citizens and the political system, thereby enhancing the legitimacy of the system itself. a healthy european democracy needs well—informed and engaged citizens. strong european political parties and foundations that can foster political debate across europe are essential for creating a truly european public sphere. the revision of the rules applying to the european political parties and foundations is one of the tangible deliverables of the european democracy action plan adopted by the commission at the end of last year. from the very early phases of our preparatory work for this revision, the commission has endeavoured to consult all relevant stakeholders to ensure that their analysis and ideas can be considered. i personally engaged in exchanges with the leaders of european political parties to hear what are the challenges to the existing situation and what can be improved. we have aligned the timeline of our work on this file with the timeline of the parliament’s own—initiative evaluation report on the implementation of regulation (eu, euratom) no 1141/2014, so that we can also take the views of this house into account. the adoption of the commission’s evaluation report on the regulation is also in its final stage at this moment. our plan is to accompany the evaluation report with a legislative proposal for the recast of the regulation on european political parties and foundations to address loopholes and suggest improvements. the proposal will be part of a broader package of initiatives on democratic life and electoral processes in the eu, notably on the transparency of paid political advertising, which is also key for european political parties. the package is currently scheduled for adoption on 23 november. our aim is to ensure early adoption of the regulation to be in place in time for the european elections in 2024. let me stress that the commission agrees with the main findings of the parliament’s report, namely that the regulation provides a useful legal framework for the functioning of european political parties and their foundations, while a number of shortcomings hinder them from achieving their full potential as active players in european democracy. the co—rapporteurs, vice—president wieland and mr goerens, whom i met on several occasions as well as other members of the committee on constitutional affairs, have documented a number of critical issues and made proposals, for instance, on the respect for eu fundamental values, the need for own resources to improve the financial viability of european political parties and foundations, the possibility for using eu funds in national referendum campaigns linked to the implementation of the treaties and the possibility of receiving contributions from members outside the european union, to mention several main findings. i can assure you that the commission intends to take on board a number of key elements of your report. the commission’s proposal will also aim to clarify the cross—european character of european parties campaigning to avoid difficulties of the past. i would like to thank the co—rapporteurs and the committee on constitutional affairs. we have had meaningful cooperation and fruitful exchanges in the course of our work, and i can assure you that the commission is considering seriously your findings and recommendations. and now i look forward to our debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, european democracy must be more resilient, especially in this era when we are facing increasing foreign interference in our democratic processes, including through targeted and well—orchestrated disinformation campaigns that are often supported from abroad through illicit means and aimed at undermining our democratic fabric. this is an important resolution, dear colleagues, with a number of points that can make political parties in europe stronger and thus make democratic life of europe both richer and more secure. however, we have to get the specific steps right. first and foremost, we must focus on making a better link between our voters and europe. let us be careful as we finalise this resolution. there is no single pan—european constituency in the eu. if we want to turn the european union into a fully—fledged representative democracy, we must respect its dual nature as the union of states and union of citizens. geographical representation next to ideological representation is crucial. any institutional steps that run against the principle of territorial representation and would put smaller member states candidates at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of larger member states would weaken democracy in europe. second, we must increase the engagement of voters. when i look at the levels of turnout in european elections across central europe, we have a deep problem with low participation of voters. the key here is to make better links between european parties and national parties, including through votes—based funding schemes for political parties in european elections. we must work on a more pluralistic political environment at european level, and this resolution suggests a solid way forward.
author. – mr president, commissioner schmit, dear colleagues, it is a great honour to open this plenary session with the committee on employment and social affairs (empl committee) oral question on the european social security pass, since this is a topic that concerns millions of mobile citizens and workers within the european union. the european parliament has been calling on the european commission since 2014 to present a proposal for a european social security number so that we can facilitate the mobility of workers, combat social fraud and simplify administrative procedures. the commission had announced in its work programme for 2018 that it would come up with a legislative proposal on such a european social security number, but in early 2021 we learned that this project was abandoned, which came as a surprise to us. instead, the commission announced that it would launch a pilot project to explore launching a digital european social security pass by 2023. so this question for oral answer and the draft motion for a resolution which will be put to the vote on wednesday: we would like to get more information about the social security pass and understand why the commission abandoned the project of launching a european social security number. allow me, therefore, to ask you the following questions. first of all, for parliament it is very important to know and understand the reasons why the commission abandoned working on the european social security number and replaced it instead with a pilot project on a digital pass. on several occasions this year, a member of the committee for employment and social affairs therefore asked the commission to give parliament access to all relevant documents and evidence on which it had based its decision to discontinue the exploration and introduction of an essn. i’m very pleased to announce that, in anticipation of today’s oral question and the debate, the commission reacted to these repeated requests for transparency and explanations, and at the end of last week, i actually received a letter, together with the relevant internal documents and evidence that will allow us to better understand why the project of introducing a european social security number was abandoned. my first question, in which i wanted to ask the commission to give parliament access to all relevant documents and evidence on which it has based its decision to discontinue the exploration of introducing an essn, has thus already been answered. but i would still be grateful if the commission could explain again the reasons why the european social security number was replaced with the digital pass. my second question is related to timing. earlier this year in the european pillar of social rights action plan, the commission announced that it would launch a pilot project to explore launching a european social security pass by 2023. we believe that a legislative proposal for such a pass is urgently needed. therefore, we would like to ask the commission if the timeline for the proposal can be moved from 2023 to 2022, to improve the chances of reaching an agreement within the current legislature. my third question is related to real-time verification, which is a very important point for the european parliament. can the commission explain how it will ensure that the social security pass will enable real-time verification of workers’ place of work, place of employment, employment relationship, identity and standardised social security benefits provisions and relevant certificates, as set out in regulation 883 on the coordination of social security systems? my fourth question: it is also very important for us that the european social security pass covers all mobile citizens and workers. can the commission confirm that the pass will indeed cover all mobile citizens and workers, including those ones who are self-employed, as well as mobile third-country nationals? in some member states, national cards or comparable instruments for labour law purposes exist already, and we ask ourselves how they will be linked to the european social security pass once created. can the commission explain how it plans to investigate the feasibility of allowing member states to use the european social security pass to draw on information made available from national cards or comparable instruments for labour law purposes where they already exist? can the commission also commit to assessing which other areas of eu labour law could be included within the scope of the european social security pass? data protection: it’s another question – another very important issue for the european parliament – so i would be grateful if you could explain how the commission will make sure that the eu data protection rules are strictly applied so that data is only available to the worker and the national authorities concerned. my last question is about the connection between the european social security pass and other tools and initiatives. there are already several initiatives and digitalisation processes at european level which concern the area of social security coordination, such as prior notification for posted workers, etc. can the commission explain how these digital processes and tools will relate to the european social security pass?
in writing. the free movement of workers is one of the fundamental principles of the european union, enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the eu, is one of the benefits that eu citizens value most, and also creates growth and prosperity within the eu beyond the borders of individual member states. but despite all the benefits it brings, we are still not in a situation where the social rights of mobile workers are really guaranteed. and that is a fundamental problem. member states and their social systems have a responsibility for the social security of people, but even today these systems cannot communicate with each other, which leads to violations of workers' rights and unfair competition. the european parliament has been raising this issue for years, but without any concrete results. the commission has reportedly decided to abandon the legislative proposal to create a european social security number and instead plans to submit a proposal to create a digital european social security card. the name of this instrument is, in my view, secondary; it is essential that the commission submits its proposal as soon as possible. the proper protection of the social rights of mobile workers must become a reality and we must have the tools to effectively combat cross-border social fraud by companies. citizens must be able to rely on working in different member states to ensure that they do not lose their social security rights.
in writing. one of the european union's biggest challenges for the coming decades is to reduce our dependence on imported minerals, which we need to develop cleaner technologies such as batteries, hydrogen or photovoltaics. today, almost 100% of our rare earths are imported from china, almost 80% of our lithium is imported from chile and 70% of our cobalt is imported from congo. indeed, it can be said that most strategic raw materials come to europe from countries in asia, africa and latin america that are unable to guarantee that their extraction and processing are carried out in a sustainable manner, respecting environmental standards and human rights. it is therefore clear that this dependence must be reduced if we are to move further in achieving our strategic autonomy. but the proposed provisions threaten to impose a virtually blanket ban on the extraction of strategic minerals in the eu's vast protected areas by giving the communities living there veto power over the approval of mining projects. while it is clear that the protection of protected areas and the involvement of different communities in the decision-making process must be a priority, on the other hand, banning any extraction in such areas would be contrary to our efforts to reduce our dependence on china. a compromise solution must therefore be found that protects the rights of communities but also biodiversity, while allowing the union to develop domestic capacities in strategic sectors.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking tomasz frankowski for his adventurous work on this report. ladies and gentlemen, today we are witnessing the entrenchment of the elitism of rich families, rich, rich children, due to the lack of support for poor children in sports. sports are becoming more expensive and, unfortunately, unaffordable for poor children. i regret to say that many sports are not accessible to the poorest children in europe. i had dozens of meetings with poor parents who actually gave me the benefit of the doubt. the availability of sport is conditional on the family's financial well-being. in other words, hundreds of thousands of european families cannot afford to pay for their children's coaches, to buy their children's sports equipment. many parents are happy to provide at least the basic necessities for their children. however, there are exceptions from time to time. as it was a while ago in my country, slovakia. in the case of a poor girl from a roman settlement, her name is anna maria, who managed to win a competition in running, passing without any sports training or equipment. she even wore the plain ballet slippers she wore to school. her victory in the ballet class literally shocked many. and her victory is also a reminder to all of us of the lack of interest of institutions in poor children who have talent, but whose parents are unable to support it because of poverty. it's not just about one special anne marie. there are many anna maria's in ballerinas who deserve our support. i therefore believe that it is important to keep in mind the important element of inclusiveness when designing and building european sports policies, or rather we must create conditions for sport for the poorest children in europe.
madam president, in every crisis there are voices calling for attempts to resolve crises by isolationism and protectionism. similar proposals are now emerging in the public debate in the context of the crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic. for example, this report on the eu pharmaceutical strategy proposes to relocate the production of medicines to europe and also to promote made in europe medicines. i think that just as in previous crises it finally became clear that protectionism is not the solution, it will be shown now. moving the entire supply chain to europe would significantly over-price production and limit specialisation, including in the area of scientific progress. the real solution, in my view, is to deepen openness, cooperation and competition, to break down barriers and diversify supply chains. instead of isolationism, which is what marketing sometimes calls self-sufficiency.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the spread of lies, misinformation and hoaxes on the internet, especially on social networks, is a threat that is changing the world. social networking sites are no longer just for making contacts, disseminating information, or even for entertainment. half-truths, lies that spread at an incredible rate around the world, destabilizing society and causing chaos. social media, on the one hand, generates enormous amounts of profit through the spread of half-truths and lies, and on the other hand, is de facto untouchable compared to traditional media. if any traditional medium today were to spread the information that the cure for killing any virus in the body is to drink or even to administer intravenous disinfectant, the next day that medium, the traditional medium, would be facing a lawsuit. but social media is not in danger of this. they spread information without any problems that seriously endangers the lives, health or property of ordinary people without facing any liability. it's time to stop talking about regulating today's unregulated social media and start acting before it's too late.
mr. president, there was a vote recently here that europeans should eat more insects instead of meat because meat/livestock is said to produce greenhouse gases that cause global warming. it was approved as part of the european food strategy from farm to fork, and as part of that, the european commission has already approved some two types of caterpillars or grasshoppers that people should eat. unfortunately, this agricultural policy is not much better, because there is also a lot of literal ecological nonsense and, in particular, this agricultural policy is unfair in the long term to the central and eastern european countries, which receive several times less support than western european farmers. slovakia was once a food-independent country. now they have to import 1,000 trucks of food a day to keep us fed. this too is the result of unfairly targeted subsidies. if you want to call this agricultural policy a common policy, first of all let us level the subsidies.
mr president, i support the proposed changes to the common agricultural policy. the national states and farmers hope and believe that these legislative changes will make it possible to achieve the set objectives, ensure a stable supply of affordable and quality food. but i think the key issue is rural development policy. the problem is that there is a kind of unnecessary struggle between green policy and agricultural policy, and often farmers are the hostages of this struggle. i respect your work, commissioner wojciechoski. i was born in the countryside, i live in the countryside, i was a horse and sheep farmer and i work with the rural parliament in slovakia. i have in my hand an invitation to a conference on the theme of a vision for a more attractive rural area, which will take place on 6 december at the university of nitra. i invite you, commissioner, to this meeting where the people of the countryside will inform you of their problems. it would be good if you attended this meeting, moreover slovaks zawsze lubiły polaków.
mr president, the reform of the common agricultural policy should be systemic and green. at the beginning of this process, i was really looking forward to it. unfortunately, at the end of this trial today, i'm rather disappointed. eco-schemes, climate targets, biodiversity support, support for small farmers, harmonisation of payments - all these powerful instruments have ultimately remained insufficient and formal, and we have been looking for measurable and binding targets in vain. unfortunately, we continue to support predominantly intensive agriculture, damaging the climate, the soil and biodiversity. the biggest recipients of subsidies will continue to be the big corporations and oligarchs, with no added value for diversity, local production or even transparency. the cap on subsidies that could have done something about this unbalanced system remains voluntary. the foundations of the reform were laid before the european environmental convention and unfortunately the reform has remained largely in this setting. it completely ignores and fails to refer to key strategies such as the biodiversity strategy and the farm-to-table strategy. we are living in a climate and biodiversity crisis. the reform should and could have made agriculture a system that is not the cause but the solution to this crisis. unfortunately, the principle attributes for this goal are missing in the reform.
madam president, the treaty of lisbon entered into force on 1 december 2009. we convinced the citizens of the european union that as a whole, the european union as a whole, would be stronger, better at handling foreign affairs. the opposite proved true. a strong nation state germany, mrs. merkel has started negotiations with lukashenko, with putin and our foreign service headed by mr. borrell has learned about these activities from the press. politicians say or poles say: "nothing about us without us". so next time i propose, and i mean this as a joke, that when dealing with similar problems, the european union should not be the one to deal with it, but the ambassador from berlin should go there. it is good that on thursday this week, at the proposal of the poles, a meeting of the v4 will be held in budapest. the v4 appears to be more effective in tackling these problems than the european union should be. and finally, something that may not please everyone. globally, not in this particular case, but globally, the migration crisis as such is not the responsibility of the poles, the russians or the belarusians, but neither are the slovaks, nor any slavic nation. the migration crisis in the world is the responsibility of those who have colonized for centuries, so... (the chairman interrupts the speaker) please don't bang with the hammer when the slovak speaks. i'm not done yet. (inaudible) and i want to say something important. thank you.
for the ppe group. madam president, in a state governed by the rule of law, respect for human rights, or the fair and dignified treatment of a person, is a principle that everyone should follow. in europe, there's been a long debate about the adequacy of policing. i'll mention the cases i've been working on recently. the case of the abused boys from the police station in košice, slovakia, where the police forced roma boys to undress and then slap each other. the policemen in this case were acquitted and cleared by the slovak courts. another case of police raid, also from slovakia, from moldavia over bodva. this case was also dismissed in slovakia. the european court of justice was the only place where the citizens concerned could expect justice. i would also like to mention the recent case of a belgian airport police station against ján chovanc from slovakia, who died after being shot in the presence of a hailing policewoman. how much time we have, colleagues, devoted to the american george floyd and how much time we have devoted to these causes. friends, have you heard of the case of the young roma stanislav tomas from český teplice? he, like george floyd, dies after being kneeled on by the police. as is customary, the control authorities failed to investigate the police intervention in question. all the european cases i've mentioned here are known only from randomly generated videos. if it weren't for these videos, we wouldn't even be talking about these cases today. it's not just the control bodies that are failing, it's not just the black sheep of the police corps that are failing, but it's also the monitoring of the actions of the police officers that we have no control over. every european police officer must be equipped with a camera so that his or her intervention can be evaluated at any time.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, police violence in europe is not just about roma. soldiers and police officers across europe are increasingly being used to suppress human rights and to implement all these totalitarian measures. governments in europe and in slovakia are abusing the police and abusing the security forces to enforce lockdowns so that people can't protest, to enforce bans so that people can't criticize the government. the austrian government wants to make vaccination compulsory with a vaccine that has only conditional approval from the european medicines agency. in latvia, unvaccinated mps will not be allowed into the parliament building. europe is literally drowning, drowning in the rise of police regimes. we are here to shout, to speak, to defend these people, but the leadership of the european union, unfortunately, does not listen. the world's greatest democracies are suddenly deaf and blind. it's so hypocritical, it's such a hypocritical thing to do.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam chairman, i begin this speech by expressing my deepest condolences to the families and loved ones of the victims of the terrible accident that occurred tonight. more than 45 people lost their lives - citizens of the republic of north macedonia, part of our brotherly people, albeit ethnic albanians. my deepest condolences to their families. i take this opportunity, madam president, to address you formally and to ask for a minute of silence tomorrow or the day after, or whenever you see fit according to the rules, but i think it is appropriate for this house, this parliament, to express its condolences with a minute of silence in memory of the victims of this terrible accident. having said that, i want to make it very clear that a big difference must be made between these tragic events and the political conversation that is going to take place between our government and that of the republic of north macedonia. these things cannot be connected in any way, cannot be used in any way, and should not be used in any way. i'm going back to bosnia and herzegovina, of course, saying that the dayton agreement is not perfect. that's clear to all. we must make it clear that we cannot turn a blind eye to the aggression that is aimed at destroying the fragile peace in bosnia and herzegovina. this aggression, of course, comes from belgrade and the kremlin. if anyone didn't get it, i'll tell you. you're very politically correct here, and you're a little afraid of these things, otherwise you talk about them on social media. but let me tell you, the problems there come from belgrade and from moscow, from the kremlin. doddik doesn't play alone. this game of his is "so and so" in his language. she's coming from the north. it's not bad to finally understand these things and stop being so politically correct. so, speaking of bosnia, we must be aware and you must be aware, above all you must be aware, that you must stand up and say clearly this serbia and this moscow that supports it, is not a friend of europe and the european union. i hope you understand that. once again, madam president, in conclusion, i ask for a minute's silence tomorrow - or tomorrow, or the day after - and bring it to the attention of the president, mr sassoli. a minute's silence should be held for the victims of the accident, citizens of the republic of north macedonia. may they be remembered forever.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, two decades ago, former un secretary-general kofi annan said these words: "in bosnia and herzegovina a hidden world war is being waged, since all the world's forces are directly or indirectly involved. here all the essential contradictions of the third millennium are broken". the european union has a duty to help the people of bosnia and herzegovina to find a peaceful solution to the conflict. the bench is now in danger of bursting, reopening old and painful wounds. it is not only dodik, the leader of the republika srpska, with his secessionist will, who is blowing in the wind of nationalism, but also many external actors, including even some member states of our union, which are increasingly far from the values on which it is based. ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the union to act decisively, clearly and unambiguously, deploying all the political and diplomatic instruments at its disposal, including sanctions against dodik and those who support him, to ensure that any future agreement takes account of the will of the bosnian people and not the geopolitical interests of others. the dayton agreements must be revised and overcome, but not by re-energizing the dangerous spectre of ethno-nationalism. if we continue to appear distant and unconcerned, we will condemn bosnia to be not only a defeated suburb but, even worse, perhaps once again the dustbin of europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is a lot at stake in bosnia-herzegovina. the presidency has raised a number of issues, but the greatest challenge facing the country, the eu and the international community at the moment is the threat to the territorial integrity of the country, and indeed the attempt to bury the dayton peace agreement. this threatens peace not only in bosnia-herzegovina but in the whole region. the one who is actively running it has a name: milorad dodik. i wonder why the council is not able to say clearly on 15 november, for example. this gentleman, who is at least supported undercover by certain circles in belgrade and certainly from moscow, must feel validated if he is not specifically addressed. i ask the council and the commission: how do you, for example, coordinate with the high commissioner on this question? are you prepared to visibly increase the mission of althea, for example? or to have both entities practice the deployment of troops on standby outside bosnia? then there is the council decision of 26 march which provides for restrictive measures and sanctions against persons who undermine the territorial integrity and constitutional order of bosnia-herzegovina. are you prepared to impose sanctions on mr dodik and his associates? i think that requires a clear answer here in this parliament.
your honour, the deep political crisis in bosnia and herzegovina has been further exacerbated by the increasingly provocative and openly separatist moves of milorad dodik. this time, he's threatening, among other things, the passage of the budget and the appointment of ambassadors, even the donation of the covid vaccine. his direct violation of the dayton peace agreement, denial of genocide, opening of a foundation of convicted war criminals and threat of secession demand our clear condemnation and a more active role towards bosnia and herzegovina in general. the current phase of destabilisation of bosnia and herzegovina, with the external support of belgrade, moscow and budapest, can have serious consequences for the stability of the entire region. unfortunately, the lack of vision and the stagnation of the enlargement policy in the european union has been accompanied by a gradual loss of credibility, which further strengthens the various anti-democratic political projects in the western balkans. in general, there is a danger of a confluence of many chronic crises in the 2022 election year. but while we are asking for respect and a possible upgrade of the dayton agreement, we cannot ignore some of its key provisions. therefore, it is of utmost importance to negotiate a new electoral law that should finally respect the decisions of the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina itself.
madam president, there was an emergency agreement necessary to stop war. but today, we see the consequences – a real prospect for a third conflict. it is time to admit the truth. this is the greatest existential threat of the post—war period in bosnia and herzegovina. the eu should guarantee the territorial integrity of the country, as well as the maintaining of the functionality of the state institutions. it would be a catastrophe for the european union and the atlantic community if we do not take actions to stop serbian separatists from pushing towards succession. therefore, i call on mr dorić and all parties involved to respect and protect state institutions, resume constructive dialogue, and take steps to advance the progress of the eu integration pact, including on relevant reforms. a lack of response to the current situation would endanger the dayton agreement, while instability in bosnia and herzegovina would have wider regional implications.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. the current situation in bosnia-herzegovina is dramatic. this is not an ethnic conflict, but a geopolitical security problem. mr dodik, with the support of president vučić and president putin, is trying to destabilise the country and the whole region and thus also to weaken the eu. the european union is not prepared to accept the new situation in the balkans. we can't let that happen again. the international community, and the eu in particular, must act decisively now. it must use all the sanctions available against dodik and his followers and increase the number of eufor troops to ensure security and peace in the country. we must stop negotiating with the ethno-nationalists and making concessions to them. they have not advanced the country in 26 years, but only cemented its corrupt structures in its ethnic division. no one may jeopardize the dayton peace treaty and thus the security and territorial integrity of bosnia-herzegovina. it is about peace in this country and in europe - in the interests of all bosnian citizens, in our own interests.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the last few weeks have seen worrying rhetoric in bosnia and herzegovina. bijar is torn between the ideas of violent unitarianism and separatism and european-backed federalism. the rhetoric we're hearing is taking us back to the 1990s and raising concerns about a potential conflict that could destabilize the entire region after years and decades of painstaking efforts to normalize the situation. the concept of constitutionality is the starting point for the equality of the three peoples in bosnia and herzegovina. we strongly advocate the amendment of the electoral law and strongly condemn the messages of destabilization of bosnia and herzegovina by milorad dodik. the message of territorial integrity is strong tonight, and i hear it from you, who may not know bosnia and herzegovina as well as we who live in its neighborhood. and that is why i want to say, no one has the right to deny a country that belongs to europe, whose citizens live there, to live their european way. a stable bosnia and herzegovina must be a priority for the european union and that is why we must all work harder, with you as the commissioner in the lead.
madam president, bosnia and herzegovina is currently in its worst political crisis since the founding of the state. the president of republika srpska, mr dodik, constantly calls for the independence of the republika srpska. he is undermining the central state by his efforts of implementing his own indirect tax system, his own judiciary and even his own army. actions of such gravity could trigger a secession, make the dissolution of the country possible, and lead to the destabilisation of the entire western balkan region. therefore, targeted sanctions must be imposed on the responsible political class in republika srpska. we strongly reject any genocide denial, war crimes apology and opposition to decisions of international courts. we support the civil society organisations fighting for democracy. we must also support bosnia and herzegovina to hold an equal, free and fair election next year and protect the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the state, which are crucial for the european integration of bosnia and herzegovina.
madam president, it is important that we debate the current situation in bosnia and herzegovina, but i regret that once again this debate is taking place late at night, away from the political spotlight it needs. the challenges of the western balkans deserve to be a central issue in this house and across all european capitals. dear colleagues, our discussion here is not merely about the regional problem or a dispute between federal entities. because of the failures in the 1990s, bosnia and herzegovina has been a european issue, and the stalemate today is a symptom of our own insufficient european engagement in the entire western balkan region. the european union has a political duty to work relentlessly on pulling the countries of western balkans towards our values. the more we succeed in this effort in the region, the better we can convince our partners across bosnia and herzegovina to work on their meaningful future, which respects the territorial integrity of their country. we still have a chance to fight for bosnia and herzegovina that is politically, economically and socially anchored in the european union for the sake of all people in the western balkans. let us not waste this opportunity.
mr president, although the protection of climate and environment should not be subject to political discretion, the approved texts of cop26 are a compromise and reflect the political will of today. i however welcome the cop26 results, and in particular the pledges related to ecosystems. we so far have treated nature as the least important element of our fight to mitigate and adapt to climate change. as some think, when sacrificed should not have consequences. we replaced digging for coal by the burning of forests, started to call it a fight against climate change, and rewarded companies for burning wood despite the fact that wood seals more co2 per unit of energy than coal, and despite the very poor shape of our forests. we cannot afford to go down this line. we have to strictly go the path of energy efficiency through renewables like solar, wind and geothermal, together with forest and wetland protection, to really improve the climate. unfortunately, it is reported that the eu is proposing to expand the scope of the energy charter treaty and replace fossil fuels by new energy sources such as biomass. the cop27 starts now and we have to act now. that’s why i hope that this parliament is aware of the damage that the eu has cast upon forests with the renewable energy directive and is ready to review it thoroughly.
mr president, the conclusions of glasgow have not killed hope that our planet will no longer warm as rapidly and intensively as it has in the past. europe is responsible for only 8% of greenhouse gas emissions, while our biggest competitors china and the us are much more. it's not enough for them to announce ambitious goals, but we have to push them through climate diplomacy to put those goals into practice. the council in glasgow did not decide to take the revolutionary steps we recently did by adopting the green deal, which we are trying to transform into concrete steps through the fit for 55 package. some proposals are controversial and will not be easy to agree on. and it's going to be even harder to implement with the consent of the citizens. on the other hand, frans timmermans is right that if we do not decide to take radical steps today, then we risk not being able to change much later. we must do everything we can to keep our planet competitive, to avoid deepening energy poverty and the division of people into the privileged and the marginalized. only through social justice will we get more people on the green side of our economy, transportation and housing. people expect us to provide specific social guarantees. it can also be a climate social fund, but it needs to be more ambitious, we need to strengthen its financing not only through emission allowances, and we need to broaden its scope.
mr president, the cheapest energy is still the one we save and do not have to produce at all, and therefore our priority must be to increase energy efficiency. but let us be fair and admit that if the union imports raw materials from third countries whose production does not respect our green norms, or our social standards, we are only exporting emissions and contributing to their increase elsewhere. but the planet we live on is only one. at home, we have to respect the different starting positions of the different countries. in some, both gas and nuclear will have to be used for a few more years to decarbonise faster. of course, renewable sources must be given priority, with cross-border electricity transmission capacities to be strengthened in the future. the need to strengthen resilience and energy security is all the more urgent as rising energy prices threaten vulnerable households. while people understand the need for emissions reductions and green reforms, they will only support them if they see social guarantees, and so we need to be more ambitious in ensuring social justice and allocating more money to the climate social fund and paying for activities other than just some training or retraining.
mr president, our political group was in slovenia a month ago and the reaction of the far-right government was to accuse us in a tweet of being anti-fascist terrorists. this is just one example of the climate of intimidation and harassment that the opposition has to endure on a daily basis; an example of the schizophrenic use of social networks, encouraging hatred and tension. very worrying is how the right to protest a basic right in any democracy is being seriously threatened by the repression against protesters, or how the government has tried to change the voting system to make the fundamental right difficult for certain groups, or how the alleged anti covid-19 measures have also been used as a covert form of curtailment of freedoms. all this is happening right now in slovenia, but there is also resistance from independent media, from the feminist movement, from organizations that help migrants, from a left that does not give up. i wanted to send you all our support from here in the european parliament and to tell you that you are not alone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few remarks on this subject. i often speak here as a defender of the rule of law, and i consider it extremely important that the european parliament should pay attention to this subject, and i am also pleased about today's debate. first of all, it should be noted that the key issue we are debating here today, namely the slovenian government's approach to the european public prosecutor, the european public prosecutor, has been resolved. however, it should be noted that this took the slovenian government an unreasonable amount of time, that there was a whole series of, in my opinion, unnecessary political debates and that this could have happened earlier. perhaps influenced by today's debate, the slovenian government has finally appointed two prosecutors as such. in any case, i think we need to monitor the situation. on the other hand, i do not find the debate adequate for my colleagues on the left, who, in my opinion, are overly emotional about the situation of the rule of law in slovenia and perhaps also project their political worldview into it. i am very pleased that the commissioner has spoken here in general about the european prosecutor. it's a new institution, we have high hopes for it. i was pleased to hear that the prosecutor is doing very well, that he is handling specific cases, but i would like to say that five months is a very short period for us to be able to evaluate the work of this institution. so i hope that in the future, our discussions will be more general about how this institution works as a whole, and that we will convince the rest of the countries to join this institution.
mr president, i will focus on the situation with the media, because free and critical media are the clearest sign of a healthy democracy, whereas smear campaigns, criminal investigations and lawsuits against journalists are the marks of authoritarian politics. in some member states, including – i have to say – in slovenia with mr janša, we are increasingly seeing the latter picture. the defamation lawsuits targeting investigative journalists are a threat to democracy itself. they do not seek justice, nor truth, but aim to silence critics. attempts to silence reporters have not always ended only with verbal attacks and lawsuits. we know that after what happened to daphne caruana galizia – and ján kuciak in my country – we can never become complacent about journalists’ safety and freedom to write. therefore, we need a strong european response, a response from the commission, including with new legislation, to safeguard media freedom and protect journalists in slovenia and elsewhere in the european union.
mr president, last week, mr pedro sánchez pérez-castejón, the prime minister of spain, went to istanbul to visit his friend, president erdoğan. they appeared before the press and erdoğan took the occasion to speak strongly against the istanbul convention, with very offensive remarks about women. mr sánchez listened impassively, he smiled and uttered no words beyond friendship, investment or economic times. erdoğan’s remarks were as offensive as his behaviour over the ‘sofagate’ scandal. but no one in brussels has bothered to react, not even to express concern. this spanish talk of friendship is a dangerous liaison indeed, and the commission should be watching it, because beyond undermining the istanbul convention, the close friendship between spain and turkey is a threat to european security and stability much more widely. spain sells turkey the boats that threaten the security of greece and cyprus, and weapons that fuel the conflict in the middle east. and meanwhile, spanish banks are investing in a very volatile turkish economy that can bring big risks to the eurozone. commissioners, please watch out for spain and turkey.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, peace, justice, respect for every human being. when we're young, we think that these are taken for granted, that we all have these positive principles inside of us. but when you're an adult, you realize there's good and there's evil. today i want to use very simple words that are understandable to all who are listening. the istanbul convention is "the first legally binding international instrument that creates a comprehensive legal framework to protect women from all forms of violence". so the istanbul convention is a treaty, and treaties must first be signed and then ratified by the states, so that the states are bound to respect these treaties. in this convention we are talking about very simple concepts. it is said that states should include in their penal codes a number of crimes against women: psychological violence, sexual violence, stalking, physical violence, rape, forced marriage, female genital mutilation, forced abortion, forced sterilization, sexual harassment. the following are examples of such violence: the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. european citizens, women and fathers, today you must ask your governments and your politicians who represent you: why? why? why is it so hard to face up to sexual violence or genital mutilation? why is it so hard to face up to forced marriage or rape? the task of politicians is to make decisions and represent democracy. i would like to know why certain countries in the european union are opposed to this treaty and whether these countries really represent the values of the european union.
mr president, 28 – 28 women were killed this year in austria. 28, nearly all of them by men close to them, murdered simply because they are women. but violence against women and children doesn’t start with these femicides, it starts in the heads, the words, the first black eye hidden from others. why hidden? because still today, instead of holding the men responsible who use violence against women, we blame often the women. we often hear ‘not all men’. but most men haven’t yet understood: this issue of violence is theirs to solve. they can’t be bystanders looking away, laughing, uncomfortable at a misogynistic joke. and therefore, today i call on all those men who already know violence is not ok: you need to call out your friends and brothers, and you need to believe women when they tell you about the violence that they experience. every third woman you meet is a survivor of violence. every third.
mr. president, i will be speaking my mother tongue, in slovak, colleagues, 600, 600 women, over 600 women were murdered in 2018 by an intimate partner or family member or their relatives in 14 european union countries, according to the latest available data from eurostat, and this is before the pandemic. how many other women have been killed since then in other european union countries for which we have no data? how many women face physical and psychological violence every day? and how many reported cases never show up in this data? indeed, violence against women is one of the biggest problems we face as a democratic and modern society. in the union, we are very effective at protecting consumers and their rights, but we are not doing enough to protect women from physical and psychological violence. we pride ourselves on being a great regulatory power, but in many member states we have failed to ratify the istanbul convention. i therefore call on the commission to adopt urgently measures at eu level equivalent to the ratified convention.
mr president, the protection of women from violence and such protection must be considered the number one priority not only in legislation but above all in the minds of men. i am very familiar with the controversial and legally imperfect istanbul convention. as a judge with 40 years of experience, i am also very familiar with the legislation of the slovak republic. i must say, objectively and without emotion, that the legislation of the slovak republic, as far as the protection of women's rights against violence is concerned, is more perfect and better, more objective and uncomplicated. i therefore propose that the european union legislators should become familiar with the jurisdiction of the slovak republic, adopt and implement it into european union law and then we can safely throw the istanbul convention into the english channel. and one last thing. i object to the remarks of some members of the european parliament who claim that the countries which have not accepted the istanbul convention are somehow more backward. it's not like that in slovakia. we slovaks love our women because they are the most beautiful women in the world.
madam president, one of the main principles of the rule of law is to create conditions for a life of dignity for every citizen of the european union, without distinction. often the problem is not the money, but the politicians who manage that money. in my country, we have had our second programming period, and we have enough money to improve the living conditions of the poorest citizens, so that they no longer have to drink water from the stream, and so that poor children can also fulfill their dreams. but since politicians do not have a voice in solving the problems of the poorest roma, many roma still live in conditions similar to those on the african continent, without access to drinking water. cities and towns have no problem building bike lanes, buying buses and trams, but they don't want to build a water supply for the poor. it is time to raise the alarm so that poor people in developed europe do not live without drinking water or sanitation. that's the rule of law. the union can no longer stand by and watch. we cannot finance cycle paths on the one hand and accept that cities and towns refuse to build water pipes for the poorest.
madam president, i am in favour of the regulation of social networks in the areas of protection of life, health, peace, protection of women's rights against violence, protection against pornography and so on. but i cannot agree with the regulation of social networks in the marketplace. in my opinion, it distorts the market, it distorts competition, it distorts what is the basis of the economy of any country, that is, the market economy. i also believe that regulation of networks in the market area will not be in the interest of the consumer. i believe that consumer protection must be ensured by strong legislation, by judicial legislation and, above all, by support for civil society organisations in the individual national states, which have a duty to deal with consumer protection. therefore, i cannot fully agree with the digital market act.
madam president, the main flaw in the proposed digital market act is the very definition of a gatekeeper. the size of the platform and the number of users do not in themselves demonstrate that there is a market failure. we should stick to the tried and tested procedures defined in the competition law, i.e. choose criteria that show whether a market failure is actually occurring. at the same time as the questions in dma, we should open a debate on why none of the current digital giants were born in the european union. enabling market entry is a better strategy than letting monopolies grow without competition and then regulating them. moreover, the proposed regulation also contains prohibitions and obligations for platforms that may be ineffective.
madam president, like many others, young people today live in uncertainty and fear, whether for their health or the health of their loved ones. they fear the future, they wonder what direction to take, whether they will be able to apply, find a job, secure a home. young people today live in an online space that has its pitfalls. today, we have no idea what effect this will have on them. many young people i meet regularly feel that no one listens to them. a lot of times they don't know how, but they want to express their opinion, they want to be more engaged, they want to do things differently and better. young people today need encouragement, especially those with limited opportunities from poor regions. today we need to put much more emphasis on supporting the poorest young people who live in difficult conditions. some are also cut off from online information for financial reasons. the european youth year must play an important role in this too, so that as many young people as possible from all walks of life and backgrounds can be involved in this activity.
mr president, the developments are a matter of life and death for the people: the concentration of military forces of nato, the us and the eu in a conflict and encirclement of their rival russia. war threats and warnings in pursuit of ukraine's accession to nato, and escalation of the arms race. tension on the belarus-poland border with thousands of refugees trapped, victims of imperialist interventions. military exercises like atlantic resolve, literally rehearsals of war. a new american base in alexandroupolis, a strategic hub for the implementation of dangerous imperialist plans in the wider region. continuation of the eu-us strategic relationship with the turkish bourgeoisie and hypocritical eu sanctions for the provocative opening of varos to the line of perpetuating the occupation in cyprus. we demand an end to the euro-atlantic exercises directed against russia and other states, an end to the occupation of cyprus, the guarantee of the rights of refugees, the closure of the us-led naval bases in greece, which were planted by the governments of nd, syriza and pasok. no sending of greek military forces beyond the borders.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, putin is inviting the world's most powerful countries to share zones of influence. he's initiating a new molotov-ribbentrop pact and saying that ukraine belongs to him. this is not a surprise maneuver. this was a gradual process. the kremlin's propaganda during the referendum in the netherlands was aimed at blocking ukraine's path to the european union. the current objective is to prevent ukraine from becoming a member of nato. despite putin's maneuvers, we have so far been unable to rally and stop him. for example, in 2020, the european union countries imported goods from russia worth almost 108 billion euros. we've become another country dependent on russian raw materials. i call not on words but on actions to show that ukraine has the right to choose its own path.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the movements of troops orchestrated by moscow are increasingly worrying. i would remind everyone, ladies and gentlemen, that the threat, like the use of force, is a clear violation of the founding principles of the united nations. yes, a direct invasion is still unlikely, but to see such military pressure on a democratic country, coupled with constant cyber threats and mass disinformation is unacceptable and must compel us to act. heavy economic sanctions will be necessary in the event of aggression. but these fears of escalation must make us realise the limits of our current response capabilities and the importance of moving quickly towards a defence union, because only then will we be able to make full use of our mediation and peacemaking capacities, only then will we be credible if we decide to deploy a csdp mission on the ground there too. this is no time to be found indecisive, divided or unprepared. policy makers in moscow must know that military aggression would have dire consequences and high costs. only then will we have the credibility at the negotiating table that we sometimes lack. only then will our voice be truly heard to protect a democratic ukraine.
madam president, it’s with great concern that we follow the increased military presence of russia at the ukrainian border. we can speculate about its reasons, whether they are economic, political or both. possible interpretations that link russia’s actions with the nord stream 2 approval reflect how complex the relation we, as the eu, have with russia since the interests of our member states are not always aligned. we need to work together to coordinate our efforts concerning the normandy format cooperation with nato in defence—related aspects. we have to address the economic dimension of our cooperation and foreign interference into our democratic processes, and lend once more our univocal support and commitment to ukraine’s independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders. ukraine has sovereign right to make its own foreign and security policy choices. as the council will discuss this topic next week, we expect a swift agreement on further joint action, namely severe economic and financial sanctions that should be closely coordinated with our transatlantic partners. from belarus and ukraine to republika srpska, many of the challenges at our external borders have a common denominator in moscow. this is why the council meeting next week will be a good opportunity to discuss a long called for and much—needed comprehensive eu strategy towards russia.
madam president, ukraine is once again threatened by russian aggression and renewed war and the reason is still the same. the simple reason is that ukrainians dared to choose a path of democracy and association with europe. therefore, the situation is no longer just about ukraine – it is about europe as a whole. because if mr putin is allowed to dictate the choices of democratic and sovereign european nations or to hold a veto over what alliances they may or may not form, then really, our continent’s security order is not worth much. and if mr putin is allowed to blackmail nato and the eu into some sort of a bargain that would compromise the sovereignty of ukraine or the security of some member states, then our principles and commitments are not worth much either. we have talked a lot in the past months about strategic autonomy, about the eu’s role in the world and its security policy and now this is the moment for the eu to prove that it can back up its ambitions in cooperation with nato. that is with a united message, with practical and economic support to ukraine, and of course with a credible threat of further and massive sanctions against russia, including the suspension of nord stream 2. so, this is indeed a moment for the eu to step up for the sake of ukraine but also for the sake of our own security.
madam president, from what i hear, he's literally freezing. you really want a war with russia? because that's what this conflict politics is going to do. you're asking the russian federation to withdraw its own army from its own borders. tell me where they're going. they're on their own turf. the u.s. military is 5,000 miles from washington, so please tell me who's provoking who, who's provoking who? the americans say the russians need to be pressed in some way because they're a threat, that they're preparing an invasion. that's what we've been hearing for the last seven years. that's what we heard in iraq, that saddam has weapons of mass destruction. where were they? in the end, it turned out to be a lie, a lie for the next american attack. these provocations that are being staged here are truly pure insanity. you don't realize that this could really lead to war? to a real war, where people will die in the territory of central europe and where we slovaks will have to take care of the victims covered in blood? this is crazy, i'm sorry.
madam president, the tensions around ukraine are escalating day by day. in addition to the build-up of a large military presence on the borders of ukraine, russia has switched into full information warfare mode. this is meant to target the home audience, ordinary russian people, and to create a symbol of the enemy. this is meant to establish casus belli, so to speak. following the biden-putin meeting last week, russia has increased demands and repeated ultimatums. according to these claims, the west is to blame, ukraine is guilty of genocide in the donetsk region, russia is being encircled by hostile countries, and the list goes on. altogether, this is extremely dangerous and requires the strongest possible response from the european union. ukraine is part of europe. the eu must stay united and resolute behind ukraine. the upcoming european council must address the crisis with the full seriousness that it deserves. the sanctions that russia will get if it attacks ukraine must be clearly articulated, effective immediately upon military aggression and cut deeply.
madam president, in 2013, few could have imagined a war on the territory of ukraine. but then came the swift annexation of crimea, and the ongoing, hot conflict in eastern ukraine. today, despite biden's latest talks with putin, the russian troops continue to gather at the border. so we need to prepare for any scenario of conflict with russia. the security and territorial integrity of ukraine are in the vital interest of the european union. they are in the vital interest of ukraine's immediate neighbours, including slovakia. ukraine must decide its future freely, without the threat of attack and invasion from moscow. in recent years, we have been reactive and defensive to unilateral military activity from russia. it's high time we changed that. otherwise, russia will continue to show its dominance in the territory of the former soviet republics and will not allow pro-european and democratic forces in the region to breathe. thirty years after the collapse of the soviet union, moscow has not changed its behaviour on the european continent. in belarus, the occupation of crimea, georgia or transnistria, but also hybrid activities directly in the european union, in ammunition depots in the czech republic. the european union must be united and decisive, ladies and gentlemen. putin understands power and must be clear that an attack on ukraine or redrawing the borders would cause moscow enormous economic and financial damage. the european union has the leverage to freeze the accounts of russian oligarchs. he can stop the nord stream 2 project and impose long-term sanctions on russian officials. it is high time to make full use of european power to prevent a major war in europe together.
in writing. we are probably facing the greatest threat of a devastating war just a few hundred kilometers from the eastern border of slovakia and the entire european union, and we must do everything to prevent it. the de-escalation of tensions not only on the ukrainian-russian border but also in the field of international diplomacy must be an absolute priority. there is still time to prevent a possible destructive armed conflict on the eastern border of a neighbouring state, and we have all the political and diplomatic means to do so, we just need to use them. the european union fully supports the territorial integrity of ukraine, but on the other hand it must also consider moscow as a partner, not an enemy, in tackling this problem if we are to really find a successful political solution. it is regrettable that there is no longer any talk about the need to implement the minsk agreements, which were the basis for a fairer settlement of the situation in the breakaway separatist republics in eastern ukraine. the fact that negotiations in the normandy format have also been abandoned is also worrying, with the eu losing its ability to influence the positive development of the tense situation in its eastern neighbourhood. as much as we dislike the latest ultimatum from moscow, we must negotiate and we must try to understand the other side's security concerns without in any way betraying our democratic principles.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, a relatively good report. quite reasonable proposals were accepted, with one major weakness, of course. the names of all the organizations and all the countries where there is corruption in the western balkans have been deleted. why is that? because, of course, this corruption fuels political projects. because, of course, this corruption, which is based on the aspirations, on the political views of belgrade, of the kremlin, of moscow, directly affects all the processes in the western balkans. and you should know them. but here you, politicians of all groups, have tried to erase the names of the corrupt and hide them. what does that mean? what does that mean? that you're afraid that you're ashamed? maybe someone here is addicted to this job? maybe someone here is getting some kind of bonus for hiding these names? yes, ladies and gentlemen, no offense to anyone. it is clear that the corruption in the western balkans is financing politicians, even in this room. maybe not present right now, but certainly funded. there is financed and organized anti-european, anti-bulgarian propaganda - in macedonia, in kosovo, in albania, and in serbia, if you like. if you want to go to bosnia and herzegovina. because it's happening through these networks that are funded and organized under the auspices of belgrade, the kremlin, moscow. and you should feel it, know it. i think you know that, though. and the fact that you don't say it, and you erase it from the report, clearly shows what those connections are, which many people in this room should be ashamed of. i'm going to end this without thanking you for your attention, for obvious reasons.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, organized crime knows no boundaries and only if we are able to find concrete solutions to the problems facing the western balkans will we be able to guarantee our own security. this will require first of all strengthening and promoting transnational cooperation, both on a regional basis and with the member states of the european union, including by revitalising the various intergovernmental initiatives that currently exist. it will then be necessary to move swiftly towards full participation of kosovo in the activities of europol and frontex, by transforming the existing working arrangements into genuine framework agreements. we will also continue to facilitate dialogue between belgrade and pristina to allow kosovo to join interpol, thereby stimulating the exchange of information and best practice that is needed to find solutions in both the short and long term. supporting and guiding the efforts of the western balkan countries to combat endemic problems that hinder their inclusion in the european family is not only a duty towards a region at the heart of europe, but also and above all a strategic priority for shaping our common future together.
mr president, first of all i would like to take this opportunity to welcome today’s good news: the opening of cluster 4 with serbia. it is an important political signal towards all partners in the western balkans that eu enlargement is making progress. i’m hoping for some good news for the region, notably when it comes to opening accession talks with north macedonia and albania before the end of this year. i would also like to reiterate the particular importance of cluster 4 in light of the recent political developments in serbia, as this cluster deals with the acquis chapters related to the green agenda, including environmental issues. today’s decision is timely as the demands for a greener and cleaner serbia are being voiced throughout that country. we all know that organised crime is the best example of regional and european cooperation. criminal enterprises don’t know borders, they don’t dwell on recent history or historical grievances, and they are united in their understanding that money talks. i would therefore like to congratulate our rapporteur, lukas mandl, on his timely report. the best answer to fighting organised crime in the western balkans is a more tangible and more decisive europe in the region. we must reinforce our political commitment to enlargement and our practical work on european institutions and practices in the western balkans. cooperation with eurojust, europol, frontex and the eppo are fine moves but, honestly, we must work on the transformation of the domestic institutions of the candidate countries. societies in the western balkans must become more resilient from within in order to tackle corruption, organised crime and trafficking more effectively. this is a long—term goal tied to the european perspective, and the frontrunners in this process, namely montenegro and serbia, could lead by example. meanwhile, it is important that across the western balkans we safeguard those who report on criminal activities and who pursue them publicly. investigative journalists, whistleblowers and vibrant civil society deserve our european support as much as police officers, judges and prosecutors committed to justice, as well as officials who work diligently on eu—related reforms. we can never get rid of all organised crime, but we can diminish space for the operations of criminals by working together with our partners in the western balkans and by turning this region into well—functioning european states.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic has affected the lives of all of us, either directly or indirectly. it has undoubtedly brought with it not only new problems and challenges, but also revealed and deepened those we already had here. the whole period has been marked by high uncertainty, which has also been reflected in employment and jobs. we are currently seeing a lot of restructuring processes that have been caused by the pandemic, and in the context of recovery and renewal, as well as digital and green transformation, we are still waiting for a lot of other changes that can cause a sense of insecurity in workers. but the process of green and digital transition should also be socially fair. we must not forget the rights of workers, which we should try to strengthen. it's not just a goal for a goal, research shows that employee engagement benefits both companies and workers. it makes societies more efficient, more sustainable and more resilient to crises, while improving the working conditions of workers. therefore, democracy in the workplace should be taken for granted and workers or their representatives or trade unions should be informed and consulted in a timely and meaningful manner before important management decisions are taken that may affect employees or their working conditions. it is desirable that they are genuinely involved in these processes and not just put in front of the finished product.
mr. president, after two years of lockdowns, bans, face masks, covid passports and vaccines, the situation across europe is worse than ever. i think it's pretty obvious that with these restrictions and these measures, it's not the virus anymore, and it's not going to get us out of the epidemic. maybe 20% of those restrictions are really about fighting the epidemic, but the other 80% is about politics, about the introduction of censorship and control over citizens and the shameless pharmaceutical business. everyone says, you have to get vaccinated, vaccinated, vaccinated. if you can't get vaccinated, you're a criminal. but i ask you, where did natural immunity go? it doesn't exist anymore? doesn't it make a commission? why does the european union not recognise certificates of antibodies, as switzerland does? why is the average age of covid victims not being made public, to make it clear that this forced vaccination of especially young people and children is absolutely pointless? dear europeans, mr. sefcovic, do you want to fight the epidemic? so please, stop serving the pharmaceutical corporations, start fighting the virus, start treating the sick and stop bullying the healthy.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for this debate and for the opportunity to listen to various viewpoints and perspectives because preventing and fighting harassment is a very serious and very important aspect for us as employers. we also need to adapt constantly. especially during the pandemic, we realised how the ways in which we work change, and this is why we have to adapt our toolbox that we have in place to tackle the phenomenon of harassment. the commission has the staff regulations that clearly prohibit harassment, but that’s not enough. on this basis, we need to build, develop and adapt our policy on how to deal with this phenomenon. as you know, we’re engaged in the review, and that’s why this discussion is especially timely for us because the commission will review its policy and its toolbox in this area. we will take the views expressed in this debate well into account when we proceed with this review. we look forward to working with the european parliament further on this issue.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 16 december 2021.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the eu-wide ban on the use of wild animals in circuses (2021/2999 ((rsp)). i would like to inform you that for all the debates of this part-session there will be no catch-the-eye procedure and that no blue-card questions will be accepted. as in recent sessions, there is also provision for remote intervention by the parliament's liaison offices in the member states. i would also remind you that the speeches in the chamber will continue from the main stage. so i would ask you to follow the list of speakers and come to the podium when your turn to speak is near.
member of the commission. – mr president, i have read the oral question from members across this house seeking a ban on the use of wild animals in circuses, and i appreciate your efforts in this regard. because the use of wild animals in circuses raises many issues of concern. while there are obvious concerns around animal welfare, this is principally an ethical question. on issues of ethics and where legislation is not harmonised at eu level, it is the member states that have the expertise, the understanding, and indeed the obligation, to take the necessary steps. and as a matter of fact, this is exactly what member states have been doing. indeed, as you point out in your question, the vast majority of them have already introduced a total or partial ban on the use of wild animals in circuses on their territory, and this reflects the public’s position on ethical and animal welfare grounds. animal and veterinary experts and bodies have supported these decisions. we welcome these measures and we invite those member states that do not yet have a ban in place to follow suit. to reiterate my point, we are of the opinion that any question on the banning of wild animals kept in circuses should not be decided at eu level but rather should be left to the member states concerned to regulate as a matter of conscience. this is in line with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, and the 23 national bans that are in place show us that these principles are being implemented in practice. that said, we do have rules at eu level that govern the movement of these animals between member states. to start with, movement of circus animals within the eu is implemented through the wildlife trade regulations. while our rules are based on the provisions of the convention on international trade in endangered species, in some respects in the eu we go further than the convention. generally speaking, wild animals may not be used for commercial purposes. moreover, importing them into and moving them around the eu is strictly regulated. in the case of circuses, the relevant certificates can only be issued to animals that have been legally acquired and have been born and bred in captivity. this makes it possible to carry out checks in the few remaining member states that still allow the use of wild animals in circuses and clearly limits the risk of illegal wildlife trade. secondly, the animal health legislation lays down rules for record keeping and movement for circus animals that move between the member states, and these rules are based on scientific risk assessments and conform to international standards. as such, they limit the risk of such movements on the animal’s health. honourable members, to wrap up, bans are a step for member states alone to take, and the vast majority of them have chosen to do so. on top of this, there is eu legislation to support member states as regards the movement of circus animals between them. we will continue to monitor the situation in this area, and i look forward to hearing your views on this important matter.
for the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, more than one million citizens of the european union have signed a petition calling for a ban on the use of wild animals in circuses. there's a certain tradition of entertainment, of visiting circuses. but i wonder if it is appropriate to show our children examples of tigers, lions or elephants performing various acrobatic feats that are not natural to them. you said it, commissioner. it's the ethical question. i am glad that most member states have solved this for us. 23 member states have adopted a ban on the use of wild animals in circuses. i would like to point out that there are other very pressing issues on the table at european level. the public is interested in how we can help them deal with the energy price hike, how we can get out of the covid crisis. in agriculture, we are waiting for strategic plans for the new agricultural policy. we have to address the impacts of climate change, the competitiveness of european farmers. i believe that it is not necessary at this stage to embark on the preparation of legislation to ban the use of wild animals in circuses throughout the european union. yet we take this voice of a million citizens seriously. the european union should pay strict attention to the welfare of animals. that is what we are going to do with the new common agricultural policy. all animals - domestic, farm and wild - deserve our attention, protection and respect for their natural needs. the european union has a 2019 regulation which imposes an obligation to carry out veterinary checks aimed at the movement of animals between member states. but in practice, it's not enforced enough, and there are problems. i believe that the application of existing standards needs to be improved, and this is a task for the member states and the european union. i would also like to ask the following question: how will the welfare of animals be checked when circuses from third countries come to perform? i think it is not possible to ban european circuses and still allow circuses from third countries to perform in our country without subjecting animal husbandry to the same strict rules. i therefore ask the commission to pay attention to these issues.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. wild animals in circuses don't belong in this century. it is time for the eu to listen to the more than one million citizens whose signatures have been submitted to the commission to ban this exploitation of animals. wild animals belong in the wild, not in the circus for our entertainment. captivity restricts the behaviour of wild animals and also poses risks to their physiological and psychological well-being. animals are usually trained hard, even when they are very young, in order to erase all their natural instincts and behaviors. by means of punishment and rewards, they learn to perform unnatural arts that are also harmful to the animals. a concrete example is the hind leg stand for elephants, which is very rarely performed in the wild and can result in joint damage. circus business is based on the fact that the business is on the move. the journey stresses the animals and their stay outdoors is often limited to small temporary enclosures for a short period of time. can you imagine the horror of animals traveling like that? of the eu member states, 24 have already adopted some form of restrictive measures against the use of wild animals in circuses. harmonised legislation in the eu prohibiting the transport of wild animals in circuses would avoid transporting animals between different member states with different levels of animal welfare. in fact, several countries around the world have already banned wild animals from circuses. there are animal-free circuses in malta, and cyprus has also come before. furthermore, bolivia and mexico have imposed a ban. other countries, such as belgium, austria, and iran, have banned wild animals from circuses. the traditional circus is actually outdated. fewer people are amused by the animals being transported around. instead, there is a renewed interest in so-called neo-circuses, in which humans perform in the place of animals. these amazing artists manage the cultural heritage of the circuses without harming the animals.
for the renew group. mr president, a friend once told me: 'seeing animals in the circus is part of childhood.' but children are not stupid. why do we assume that they'll think that a tiger is supposed to jump in a cage, that an elephant is supposed to jump between things in an arena, that a chimpanzee is supposed to ride a bicycle? kids really aren't stupid. and most europeans are not stupid either, because it's clear that most europeans think that wild animals don't belong in the circus. that they don't belong to the fun, that they don't suffer in training and then ten months a year ride locked in little maringots or cages and experience further suffering in performances. it is time we stopped saying that elephant, tiger, and other wildlife performances are entertainment. entertainment cannot be built on suffering and cruelty. i am glad that many countries, including slovakia, have taken up this challenge. and it is time for us to stand up to it as europe. we solve complicated things, we can solve simple ones. it's also important that it's not just about animal suffering. circuses are also, unfortunately, a source of endangered animals for the illegal trade. not only is the legislation lax and full of holes, but the very fact that wild animals can continue to be in circuses contributes to trade, for example, with tigers. it's something that's time to stop. not just because it threatens wildlife, but because of zoonotic diseases, like the one we're now cruelly reminded of by the corona. i therefore expect the commission to find legislative ways, it is not difficult, of finally banning wild animals in circuses throughout europe. because humanity towards animals is a european value.
