mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, at this moment i am hearing people say that there is an unbridgeable gap between two worlds. on the one hand, we have the kids who enroll in humanities colleges, as i did at the time, art academies, conservatories to cultivate a talent or because they're fascinated by history and beauty and art. on the other hand, we have an ultra-liberal policy on cultural heritage, especially material heritage, which is based on de facto privatisation, with the transfer of our cultural heritage to foundations for 50 years, for 90 years, which makes our history just a business without prejudice. i hope that the interpretation of article 167 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union is to protect europe's common cultural heritage, not to sell it to the highest bidder, otherwise all our good initiatives and our good words are useless! cultural heritage is our history, what we have been and what we are now. our job is to preserve it for future generations. talent and intelligence are like a flower: without water they wither; the promotion of cultural development is the nourishment.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we in europe can be proud of our common cultural heritage, which is a reflection of our common identity, a testimony to our rich history and to the unity of european civilisation through the diversity of our cultural tradition. one thing is clear: it is our duty to protect our cultural heritage. we must nurture it to preserve it for future generations. our cultural heritage is also an economic factor. the sector employs some 300 000 people in europe and indirectly supports almost eight million jobs in europe. four out of ten people choose their holiday destination according to the cultural offer. this report rightly points out that cultural tourism must strike a balance between economic, social, cultural and environmental requirements. the report calls on the commission to organise another european year of cultural heritage, and this must be a priority, because having such a success once is not enough, it must be designed for the long term, as does the european heritage seal, which marks our cultural heritage and recognises its value for europe. we must promote and support this cultural heritage in a sustainable way with the help of the european union. we need to promote strongly the digitisation of our cultural heritage, and here the europeana project, as the commissioner has already said, is to be highlighted, which serves as europe's digital library, as an archive, as a museum and also as an educational platform. our cultural heritage unites us in its diversity like nothing else. it is our history and will be part of our future, in keeping with the european motto 'united in diversity'.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, one third of the unesco world heritage sites are located in the european union. the european year of cultural heritage has made us aware of the need to allocate additional resources to this area, both in terms of investment and human resources. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. from the beautiful citadel of alba iulia to the colosseum in rome, from the works of dutch painters to the writings of famous greek philosophers, the preservation of our cultural heritage demonstrates our understanding of the past, but also our ability to design a future for this sector with significant economic potential. i support the inclusion of the european cultural dimension, including heritage, in the debates on the future of europe and the active involvement of experts and civil society in heritage policies. we need a strategic and innovative vision, one that includes all member states, that is based on education and adapts to technological and digital developments. the measures are clear and have been mentioned: easier access to european funds for both small and large projects, the creation of dedicated platforms for learning and sharing good practices, the support of european networks and initiatives leading to increased cooperation between experts, decision-makers and relevant actors in the field, the creation of a community for cultural and creative industries within the european institute of innovation and technology, the expansion of the european heritage brand - and we have to say that we have 48 sites, and in my country, romania, we only have the sighet memorial - the popularization of the house of european history and heritage throughout europe - and we have even recently proposed a move to include romanian authors - a consistent support, as the commissioner said, for the next european capital of culture, and i think in a similar way, especially in the cultural capital, timișoara. by investing in cultural heritage, we are in fact investing in the preservation of our past, but above all in designing a common future at european level.
mr president, cultural heritage is our common source of wealth and something we should all be doing more to protect and value. the 2018 european year of cultural heritage and the experience gained from 23 000 events held throughout europe during the year should serve as a model for further upgrading in the coming years. we all know that the cultural sector has been really hit hard by the pandemic. and we really need to step up our joint efforts to create, together with civil society, permanent platforms for better cooperation and for better cultural heritage policies at the european union level, to highlight digital cultural heritage, to establish a single portal for cultural heritage funding and to identify where there are ways to improve promotion, to better collaborate and ultimately to synergize with other programmes. finally, our key task is to provide more resources and better access to funding for cultural heritage. because it's the way we show her the recognition she deserves.
i congratulate you, mr vice-president, on the joint success so far achieved by the commission and indeed by all our member states of the european union. ladies and gentlemen, vaccination is the most successful public health measure of the modern era. a vaccine against cavid-19 is the priority of the entire world at this time. looking back, the vaccine has made europe a continent free of polio and eliminated many other diseases. vaccination is preventing, let's not forget that, about two and a half million deaths worldwide. inequitable access to vaccines and a weakening of public confidence in vaccination are a cause for concern and a major challenge we face today. europe has shown strength, funding research that has made possible a vaccine against covid-19 that we rightly consider a public good. pharmaceutical companies are able to produce additional vaccine quantities and the european union should continue to support cooperation in the covax coalition to secure additional vaccines for third countries. we are aware that the countries that will benefit from covax have limited resources. we need to secure the resources to vaccinate as many populations as possible in those countries as envisaged in the action plan. faced with a dose of distrust and infodemia, it is our duty to provide citizens with relevant information and support in order to protect their health. investment questioning, yes, colleagues, but what does that mean? are we bidding on the question of how much a life costs? to me, that is unacceptable. vaccinate yourselves, our lives, our economies and our future depend on our responsibility.
mr. president, it will soon be a year since the new coronavirus hit us. there are still huge challenges, but a lifesaving plant - a vaccine - is on the horizon. we have a commission strategy for a total order of two billion good vaccines and an equal distribution among member states. this is of course exceptional from the point of view of the union as a community, but i am nevertheless disappointed that the commission has not ensured full transparency when signing contracts with vaccine manufacturers. also, that amount of vaccine hasn't been produced yet. this means that only a small percentage of people have been vaccinated so far. and that also means that it's absolutely premature to talk about a certificate of vaccination for uninterrupted travel. it is not to be deceived: the fact is that this would be a coercive mechanism. worse, this mechanism would discriminate against those who will be vaccinated later, and especially those who will not and cannot and are not medically fit to be vaccinated. you know, if we have always stressed solidarity and inclusion for all, then we must ensure that even if we introduce such mechanisms, which are certainly unthinkable at the moment, no one will be deprived of fundamental rights.
in writing. vaccines against covid-19 are not just a lifeline for the possibility of further social and economic recovery of a society. they are also a symbol of unity, greater cohesion and, last but not least, of trust between europeans. the eu has competent regulatory mechanisms in place, led by the european medicines agency, which, with its emergency procedures, ensures the highest possible standards (including those of the us or the uk) for the scientific review and authorisation of vaccines. however, i believe that the efforts of the parliament, which also monitors with a watchful eye the transparency of joint procurement and the overall vaccination process in the eu, play a key role. i am therefore convinced that a comprehensive overview of the contracts signed by the commission with pharmaceutical companies is essential to ensure that clarity and transparency. it is our responsibility to monitor the use of european public funds. last but not least, it is also important to emphasise unity and consistency in respecting the common european strategy for vaccine provision, it being important that certain member states are not exploited at the expense of others. this is the essence of joint action at union level, from which all member states, irrespective of their size or economic development, must benefit equally. these are all conditions for eu citizens to have confidence in the measures and the effectiveness of the joint fight against covid-19.
madam president, mr high representative, in the field of human rights, it can be said that there are still challenges to be met. in the 2019 report, we see that human rights defenders, journalists, media professionals were threatened and attacked because of their daily work. civic and democratic space continued to be restricted, the fundamental rights of women and girls were far from being respected, and vulnerable groups were often left behind and exposed to further inequalities. what about the evolution in 2020, where the pandemic has not only exacerbated the already precarious situations of the most vulnerable populations, and i am talking specifically about those imprisoned for defending human rights, like nasrin sotoudeh in iran, but we have also seen the emergence of authoritarian approaches in the management of this pandemic. while the european union remains a key player in the defence of human rights in the world, its capacity for concrete action has also been weakened, partly by the rise of scepticism in the defence of human rights, as has been the case with the trump administration in multilateral fora, or with authoritarian regimes such as china, belarus, egypt, turkey, or illiberal democracies such as india, brazil, venezuela, and unfortunately the list is long. in this context, it seems to me essential for the union to fight the battle to defend human rights at international level and to stress that clauses relating to human rights, both in international agreements and in bilateral agreements, must be respected. and here i am wondering, mr borrell, why the agreement with china was signed at a time when china is violating, i would even say exterminating, a population, the uyghur people. mr borrell, if europe is to remain credible on its fundamental values, both in defending its model internally and on the international stage, it is important to be consistent and not to apply double standards. as such, i also support multilateral tools such as the international criminal court and i will also be attentive to the concrete and effective implementation of the action plan as you suggest. i also thank you for the work you have done on the global instrument to combat violence and human rights violations. the european regulation on the duty of vigilance of our companies must also be an effective tool in the fight against violations of fundamental rights. there is still a lot of work to be done, but we will work together to get it done.
madam president, the common security and defence policy reflects the eu's ambitions, but it also increasingly needs to become a global player in its own right, not only in the economic field but also in the security and defence field. the eu must play its part in ensuring global peace and stability in an increasingly unpredictable security environment, especially in our immediate neighbourhood. investment in defence capabilities must be considered and rationalised, without duplication. joint investment in new technologies and capabilities is therefore essential. in demanding times, when the needs of citizens are many and varied, a broader social and political consensus is required. the epidemic has re-emphasised the need to strengthen the strategic autonomy of the european union, which is impossible without a common strategic culture. it is therefore essential to strengthen joint european operational capabilities and to develop a common european strategic thinking, which will be reflected in the decisions taken in a renewed and democratic decision-making system. this will make eu missions and operations more effective, especially in our immediate neighbourhood, where we are facing increasingly aggressive regional forces, including through increasingly aggressive cyber attacks and fake news campaigns. at the same time, populist policies are undermining arms control and reduction mechanisms that are crucial to peace and security on the european continent. it is clear that in the world we live in, which is still being shaped by the consequences of the pandemic, we need a more robust and stronger common security and defence policy. together, we have the potential to become one of the global players, but divided and disunited, we will only be rich prey.
madam president, respected and respected. at the moment, the debate on the social and employment crisis is only the tip of the iceberg, as the rough statistics obscure the vast differences between member states, regions and economic sectors. nor do they reflect the personal distress of the people and the deepening social divisions. so it's critical that we have measures in place to help mitigate this. they demonstrate that social union is a possible direction for european integration. even if the law of the european union is not in favour of social union, it is possible if there is a political need or will for it. focusing on the most vulnerable, closing the gender pay gap, improving working conditions and safety at work, investing in people's knowledge and skills and strengthening social dialogue and collective bargaining must become our permanent response. i hope that this year the current portuguese and future slovenian presidencies of the council of the eu will be able to transfer the spirit of their social and human rights-oriented constitutions to the european parliament and, together with us and the commission, strengthen the pillar of social rights. for the eu as a safe home for people.
mr. president, please! what we are now concluding with a vote was unthinkable less than a year ago. i agree with everyone, this fund is truly historic, with all the dimensions it brings, including the change in the very structure of the union. the framework is excellent, thanks in particular to the european parliament's negotiators. but it's one thing to make it happen, it's another to make it happen. it's complicated in another way, in the execution. it all depends on the national plans, which are of course drawn up by the member states. so is it logical and right that these plans do not include the general public? in plans to spend public money that was supposed to be for future generations? we must strive to implement the new own resources quickly and make this fund permanent, and the countries must implement projects in a deliberate way, not in a mindless way and not without a clear vision. but here you really have to take your role in the commission very seriously, because the key is implementation in practice and a great framework on paper will not be enough.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must give credit to europe for research into vaccines and for joint purchasing. the crucial issue today is mass production capacity, because access to vaccines is a good for all europeans but it is also a global effort. if there has been an undervaluation on the production side, we must concentrate our efforts here. the breton initiative to push enterprises to the maximum, to multiply production sites through voluntary collaboration between enterprises. but it's not enough. we have a duty as politicians to assess all the possibilities in the field to ensure that we have sufficient stocks, to assess what demand will be, to be prepared for any eventuality, so that we are not unprepared in the future. the road to compulsory licences, which recognize the intellectual property of patents but allow, even with royalties, other firms to produce by providing the necessary knowledge and means, must therefore be considered. this road will create new industrial chains and will lead to strategic autonomy in a crucial sector such as pharmaceuticals and healthcare.
madam president, i welcome today’s debate, as effective, open communication is essential in the midst of this pandemic. i urge the commission to increase communication with the parliament on vaccine procurement and deployment, and i welcome president ursula von der leyen’s commitment today to set up a contact group between the european commission and parliament. during the brexit process, it was effective engagement and dialogue from the irish government that secured the unwavering solidarity and deep understanding across the eu for the unique challenges facing ireland. this solidarity cannot and should not be forgotten. therefore, it makes it all the more unfortunate that the commission made the recent error of proposing to invoke article 16. heavy criticism followed, and understandably so, but thankfully, so did engagement with the irish and united kingdom governments. the fact remains that this major error came about as there was no consultation with those who would be the most affected. we need assurances that lessons have been learned and that sufficient procedures are being put in place to ensure that this cannot happen again – because it must not happen again. however, the protocol is not primarily the problem here. the problem is brexit, which is the regretful reality we must all face. and the protocol was the only tangible option available, considering the stance of the british government. what’s needed now is courageous and responsible leadership to utilise existing structures in the agreement, to ensure the protocol works for all. i call on the british government to play its part and implement agreements in the protocol to make sure it actually works for people and businesses. it takes two to tango!
imagine that if 27 countries of different sizes were negotiating individually and separately to buy the vaccine. it would be a party for big pharma companies. convinced that history will judge this difficult moment as one of the essential ones in the path of our integration. as schuman said; "europe will not be built all at once or according to a single plan, but with concrete achievements that first build solidarity". solidarity, madam president - we recall the scenes of almost a year ago when countries that had not yet started to cope with the pandemic on their own, and citizens rightly asked, how member states decided to go for healthy nationalism at that particular time. how did these countries get left behind? how come all these meetings here in brussels have not set out anything for the daily lives of citizens? madam president of the european commission, two things; let's start now to negotiate and buy the doses in the event of the need for the third vaccine, as well as more transparency. the moment the union is not transparent is the moment citizens lose credibility in this union.
madam chair, we are beginning to feel that the saga of fighting the coronavirus pandemic will never end. we have a vaccine that's hard to anticipate, and we have a strategy that's in place that's good in theory, but unfortunately not as effective as we'd like. the commission's decision to award the joint contract was a good one and it gave us optimism, but also satisfaction, which is now less and less. why would you do that? because there were mistakes made in the contracting of the vaccine manufacturers. and because, unfortunately, that's not the only reason. more importantly - perhaps even more importantly - the lack of transparency is the main reason. if we continue with secrecy and lax explanations, we will completely lose the trust of citizens, which may then have an even more negative impact on their decision to vaccinate and, consequently, on the achievement of our common goal: getting out of the pandemic. the commission must therefore take responsibility and present all vaccine-related information to european citizens in an open and clear manner, thereby avoiding further confusion and spreading doubts.
madam president, social networks are an opportunity in a democracy, but they are also a risk. an opportunity for active citizens to express their views and act within a democratic public space, risking the possibility of abuse, spreading fake news, disinformation, conspiracy theories, hate speech and extreme political views, which can lead, as we have seen in the us, to attempts to violently subvert a democratic order. or rather, as the examples in some member states, such as poland, hungary and, unfortunately, slovenia, show, the means is the weakening of democracy, its institutions and the establishment of illiberal democracies. so it's obvious that social networks need some level of regulation, too. this does not imply censorship and a blanket restriction on freedom of speech, nor does it leave the decision as to what is and is not appropriate use to the subjective judgment of the individual. let alone the interests of the network owners. we need a clearly defined regulation, designed within the framework of democratic processes that are not rigid, so that we do not interfere with the elements of networks that strengthen democracy and its development, but at the same time prevent their misuse for the purposes of political manipulation and the weakening of democracy.
in writing. in this time of the so-called digital revolution, it has been shown that humans are extremely fast at developing advanced technologies, but still much slower at defining advanced rules for their use. but legislators (the european parliament together with the council or national parliaments) are and always will be responsible as regulators for what happens in the real and digital worlds. i therefore welcome the commission's efforts in this area and in encouraging member states to adopt the legislative package as soon as possible in the context of the digital services act. in this context, i would like to stress in particular the importance of the issue of what is prohibited and what is permissible, or the distinction between freedom of speech and hate speech and (intentional) dissemination of false information, being assessed at the highest (supranational) level of the democratic decision-making process in the eu. it is essential that we enable digital environments based on the highest democratic principles and respect for human rights. for the sustainable well-being of the wider society, and in particular for the safety of our youngest generations. on the occasion of the recent safer internet day, i would therefore like to stress in particular the need to establish as soon as possible a clear legal relationship between the right to privacy online, on the one hand, and the prevention of psychological and physical violence and the fundamental human rights of children, on the other. the protection of the human rights of children must always and everywhere take precedence.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me start by assuring you that high representative and vice—president borrell is well aware of the case of mr rusesabagina, and that the eeas and the eu delegation in kigali are in close contact with the belgian authorities and the belgian and us embassies in rwanda. our ambassador has discussed mr rusesabagina’s court case with the highest authorities, including president kagame, the minister of foreign affairs and the minister of justice. he has emphasised our expectation that mr rusesabagina is provided with appropriate legal counsel and medical care and that conditions prevail for the rule of law, a fair trial and due process. the eu delegation has already formally requested the authorities to facilitate access to the court and received confirmation that it can follow the court sittings, to be opened at the high court on 17 february. i would also like to inform you on the situation of mr rusesabagina in rwanda. since his arrival, which you described, the belgian authorities have provided consular assistance and have seen him and talked to him regularly. we have been informed that the us embassy was able to have regular visits and contacts with him. mr rusesabagina has been, and is, in regular medical care. he receives daily medication. we have received reassurances that another medical examination on 9 february in kigali found him in good condition. the authorities are ready to open a direct channel between belgian and us doctors and the rwandan doctors. upon his arrival, mr rusesabagina was afforded free legal counsel, provided through the rwanda bar association. later he chose to replace these lawyers by another rwandan lawyer of high international reputation. he has also appointed other international lawyers to assist in his defence. however, these would need to be authorised by the rwanda bar association in order to be able to appear before a rwandan court. there have been issues with access to documents of the prosecution and of his lawyer, slowing down the preparation of his defence. alerted to these issues, the rwandan authorities have promised to take action to enable him to prepare properly for the process. we will continue to engage with the rwandan authorities on human rights issues, good governance and the rule of law in our regular political dialogue, as we do with all our partners. under the 11th european development fund, governance is a focal area of our cooperation and will continue to be in the new programming. exchanges have started with the authorities to work with law enforcement authorities on human rights – sensitive approaches. human rights have to be respected universally and at all times, including for prisoners and those who are accused. we are confident that rwanda will bring about fair, credible and independent justice for mr rusesabagina.
in writing. in the case of the enforced disappearance of paul rusesabagina, i believe that the eu should strongly demand that the rwandan government authorities guarantee the fundamental rights of this human rights activist, and ensure that he is given a fair trial by a competent, independent and impartial court. mr. rusesabagina saved thousands of lives by providing shelter and protection in a hotel he ran during the 1994 rwandan genocide. the opaque conditions in which this citizen of the european union was detained, denied access to a lawyer of his choice, regular contact with his family, and respect for his rights and dignity, must be investigated.
author. – madam president, the kazakhstan government intends to celebrate the 30th anniversary of independence, but it will not be a real celebration until all political prisoners are released, until politically-motivated court proceedings are dropped, as well as all kinds of harassment aimed at regime critics, human rights defenders and civil society activists – until all of this is stopped. but, unfortunately, these are the common practices in today’s kazakhstan. a year ago, i visited kazakhstan to discuss the implementation of kazakhstan’s human rights obligations stemming from the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement. it was during this very visit that dulat agadil, a blogger and a prominent human rights activist, died in a pre—trial detention facility. died, or was he killed? i saw pictures and films from his brutal deportation from home. i saw pictures and films showing his dead body with traces of torture. i heard that he was denied medical aid and he died only several hours after his detention. i asked at several meetings with the authorities, ‘what happened’? so far, nobody has received a serious response. those films were made by his son, zhanbolat. a few months later, zhanbolat, 17 years old and the main witness of dulat’s arbitrary arrest, was murdered in suspicious circumstances. those also have not been properly investigated. only in 2020, three more opposition activists, serik orazov, amanbike khairolla and garifulla embergenov, lost lives after being put under immense political pressure. the authorities obstruct a fair and transparent investigation into these deaths and none of the perpetrators has been brought to justice. yes, we hear and we welcome the release from prison of certain opposition leaders and we welcome the cancellation of fines that had been unjustly put on ngos, but we cannot accept imposing bans on their activism and constant pressure on civil society organisations is an unacceptable practice. opposition movements, human rights activists, are labelled extremist organisations and treated as such. we elaborate more on this in our resolution. i want to very sincerely thank all of your colleagues and our wonderful staff members who cooperated on it and i want to appeal to you all. i also want to urge all our eu institutions to strengthen kazakhstan’s civil society, raising concerns with the authorities and even considering the imposition of targeted sanctions against state officials linked to human rights abuses, including the political killings. i wanted to add the last sentence because, as we are talking now, at least 17 supporters of peaceful opposition movements risk sharing the fate of dulat agadil if not immediately released from prison. their names are askhat zheksebayev and kairat klyshev. meanwhile, others like democratic choice of kazakhstan (dck) activist almat zhumagulov, aset abishev and kenzhebek abishev [...] (the president interrupted the speaker) ... long prison sentences, free for political prisoners.
author. – madam president, kazakhstan ranks 157th in the world press freedom index. the state control over the freedom of speech in modernising and moves on online space seeking to censor and control the internet. bloggers, opinion makers and social media users are being silenced with long-term prison sentences and confinement to psychiatric clinics. corruption among ruling elite prevails. the country ranks 94th in the transparency international corruption perception index, and further impedes the human rights, social justice and socio-economic development. despite the kazakh authorities’ promise to improve the human rights record under the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement with the eu, despite acceptance of more than 200 recommendations provided by the un human rights council and despite long-standing osce/odhir recommendations and recent findings of the odihr limited election observation mission, the human rights violations in kazakhstan are taking place on a daily basis. we are alerted and deeply concerned about the shrinking space of civil society, particularly the cases of several human rights organisations. those activities were suspended and fined on alleged violations and the crackdown against the independent trade unions. an even more worrisome situation is with peaceful opposition movements, democratic choice of kazakhstan (dck) and koshe partiyasy, as their members and supporters dominate the list of political prisoners. last year, five political activists, including dulat agadil and his 17-year old son, died as a result of illegal actions and political repression by law enforcement and intelligence agencies. human rights defenders in kazakhstan are under constant intimidation, harassment and threat of criminal charges. for example, elena semenova is being persecuted for exposing torture in prisons. raigul sadyrbayeva for helping activists to defend their rights. anna shukeyeva and her husband baurzhan atuzbayev for aiding politically persecuted persons. recent actions of the kazakh government, when few political prisoners were released, with fines and suspension of activities for several ngos were removed, are much welcome, but does not fulfil its commitments. it must be clear that the european union seeks for cooperation with kazakhstan, but puts respect for human rights and democracy above economic gains.
author. – madam president, there are certain things that should be universal in this world, respect for democracy, fundamental rights and rule of law, and some of us fight relentlessly for this within the eu. and so that is why we also have to act when human rights and democracy are not respected outside the eu, as is the case today in kazakhstan. in kazakhstan ngos are harassed and silenced. human rights activists are imprisoned. the peaceful opposition movements are banned. the elections did not meet democratic standards. the authorities imprison individuals on politically motivated charges. they abuse legislation against extremism to call people into defamation and calling them terrorists and also imprisoning, and the situation with ongoing torture, has been documented. so because of their very activities, their democratic activities, journalists, politicians, peaceful protesters, bloggers and human right defenders, civil society is being targeted and this situation cannot go on. with this resolution we want to send a clear message urging the authorities to stop all types of persecution of dissident voices and to release all political prisoners immediately. in today’s debate i also want to show our solidarity with our sisters in kazakhstan who fight every day for the right to live a decent life, free from violence. last year’s women’s march was the biggest one in kazakhstan’s independent history. and the women that gathered, they had a manifesto and i quote, we have the experience of living in a country where we do not feel safe, and where the laws do not protect us. security is the basic need of every person and it is precisely what we are deprived of. the women’s activists wrote. so i want to speak up in solidarity with our sisters who fall victim to gender-based violence and urge kazakhstan to sign the istanbul convention, just as i urge those member states in the eu that haven’t signed the istanbul convention, to do so. we call for kazakhstan to adopt robust legislation against violence against women, against gender-based violence, to protect the rights of those that need it most in a situation when we have not full respect for democracy and rule of law. so feminists around europe, we stand with women’s rights activists in kazakhstan to speak up against impunity of those perpetrators of gender-based violence.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the deterioration of human rights in kazakhstan is cause for deep concern. in the past few weeks there has been a crackdown on civil society organisations. harsh restrictions on the rights to peaceful assembly and association have also been imposed. the elections on 10 january did not demonstrate sufficient political reforms or any sort of democratic modernisation. despite promises of the inclusion of genuine opposition parties to participate in the political system, no such parties were registered and allowed on the ballot, though several tried. this follows a slew of barriers and blockages to opposition, leaving many people without a voice. the state of media freedom is also worrying. state-owned or state-subsidised media channels dominate the kazakhstani media, since the main national opposition newspapers were all banned in 2016. independent journalists continue to face harassment. regrettably, gender equality also remains a problem in kazakhstan. violence against women is vastly under-reported and lgbti persons still face legal challenges and discrimination. more must be done to ensure the protection of the victims of gender-based violence. i urge the government of kazakhstan to fulfil its domestic and international duties by stopping attacking civil society and providing a culture of open government that empowers citizens. nothing less will suffice. a uachtaráin, comhghairdeas do mo chomhghleacaithe as ucht labhairt ar an ábhar an-thábhachtach seo.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, (inaudible) must be, even if it wishes to be a geopolitical one, based on respect for fundamental rights and universally-respected human rights. respect of implementation of fundamental rights enshrined in the foundation of the eu needs to be our main geopolitical tool in dealing with undemocratic regimes, because it is proven that they are unable to efficiently fight the ideas promoted by our fundamental rights. they can and are using violence and oppression and all forms of coercion to confront these ideas, but they ultimately fail. in a world of great competition, the promotion of this value sometimes proves to be challenging, but with our economic power, combined with credible military deterrence, we can succeed in both, on both the global and regional level. we are faced with the rise of authoritarian and semi—authoritarian regimes in our neighbourhood, and kazakhstan is, unfortunately, one of them. it’s one of the countries in which the transition to democratic society failed, not yesterday but years ago. what we are seeing now is the sliding of the country into an increasingly authoritarian regime, and central asia, which is of strategic importance to the eu, is witnessing, in parallel with the rise of china, also the rise of authoritarianism. this authoritarianism is based, rather than on use of brutal force, on the use of sophisticated technologies for mass control of people’s everyday lives. but we don’t need to fill ourselves with illusions. if needed, brutal force is still at the regime’s disposal, and if needed, it will use it without any mercy. but in kazakhstan, a country at the crossroads of western and eastern influence, the regime also uses proven methods of opposition suppression which are part of the well-known arsenal of illiberal democracies. full control of media, suppression of independent media, internet control and fake news dissemination as well of scores of legal and administrative tricks to rig and manipulate the election process. all this is done to portray to the world the potemkin mirage of democratic society. in the long run, the suppression of democratic hopes cannot withstand the call for freedom and democracy. for this, i urge the kazakhstan authorities to release all political prisoners and start the process of democratisation of the country and society and thereby ensure stability and prosperity for all the people of kazakhstan.
in writing. corporate due diligence and corporate responsibility should, as a principle, become an integral part of the business model and operations of companies both within the union and in relation to third countries, in accordance with the provisions of the eu treaties. despite numerous soft law acts (recommendations, guidelines, declarations) at international, regional and eu level, there are companies that are not adhering to this principle in a timely, adequate or even pseudo-social way, while their actions have an impact on (irreversible) environmental degradation and (and consequent) respect for human rights. i therefore welcome the efforts and efforts of the european parliament to adopt a legislative framework in this area, as it is clear that voluntary commitments alone do not work. at the same time, in this context, it is also necessary to strengthen access to effective legal redress for affected individuals or communities who are victims of irresponsible business conduct. i also advocate the effectiveness of these mechanisms (at eu level) directly in the formulation of the proposal for a revision of the aarhus regulation, which aims to improve access to justice in environmental matters and thus to allow timely prevention of environmental damage before it has serious consequences for people. i believe that the availability and effective functioning of such mechanisms, which aim at the highest possible environmental standards, is a key factor in achieving the ambitious green transition and economic transformation we have outlined in the european green deal.
mr. chairman, please. when we approve our major health programme eu4health later today, i am particularly pleased for two reasons. it is in itself very encouraging that we are now kickstarting/investing in health research and knowledge sharing. but i am particularly pleased with two clear fingerprints that my liberal group and i have put. we have broadened the scope of the programme and we have broadened the definition of chronic diseases. today, we have too many diseases that are under-reported in research, and if we can help tip that balance just a little bit, that's already a victory. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it can, and we need to do something about it. and it is a step in the right direction that we are now giving more attention to it. one of the areas that has been under-reported is clearly reproductive health, and here, on the day after international women's day, we can perhaps be particularly pleased that we have included this in the strategy. health in the areas of sexuality, fertility, pregnancy and childbirth really needs more attention. there are so many unresolved issues here. perhaps particularly in the area of fertility, where we see fewer europeans having children and unfortunately this is often involuntary. in fact, infertility is one of the most common health problems for people of childbearing age, and we can no longer ignore it. if these steps mean that more europeans can receive help in the short or long term and that society can gain better knowledge about a number of diseases, then today has been a very good day at work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this health crisis is unfortunately bringing all the nodes of our european union to the surface. we have focused on the single market, the single currency, the banking union, but what was really needed was equal rights for people, starting with the right to health, starting with the right to public and european health care. i myself have proposed the idea of a public and european pharmaceutical company on several occasions: we could have developed a european vaccine today, we could have distributed and produced it in a very short time and also lent it to the rest of the world, to anyone who needed it. instead, the interests of the private pharmaceutical companies have been privileged, and they are now holding us at our throats, pursuing their one great goal, profit, a goal that is even higher than the value of human life. this idea was put forward again in this eu4health report, but over 500 members of parliament from all political parties voted against it. they chose to side with profit and big pharma. people are asking us why we don't distribute the russian vaccine, the chinese vaccine and the cuban vaccine: perhaps because the european union has decided to stand by and privilege international relations with the united states rather than have an extra weapon to save the lives of thousands of people. people wonder why it is only focusing on the vaccine and not even on a therapy that could allow intervention when the virus has not done too much damage yet: perhaps because once again the european union has decided to side with the big pharmaceutical industry. now the eu4health proposal is certainly a positive proposal, we will vote for it, but the question is not whether it will be able to get us out of this health and economic crisis. the question is whether we will one day be able to change mindsets and really do the people's business.
president, the eu4health programme focuses on areas where the eu can provide effective added value, such as cross-border threats and the availability of medicines. the eu can also add value in the current pandemic, but the strategy is still lagging behind. the gap with third countries is large. there is a great deal of mistrust and patience is running out. there are many reasons for failure, but few excuses. i believe that the european sluggishness is due to a kind of entrenched, risk-averse bureaucracy which is manifested at every stage of planning to implementation. there's a real reset here, a mental shift. the ban on the export of vaccines also raises questions. producers indicate that this is a risk that can lead to a costly loss of time. and what if that export ban inspires third countries to put a similar brake on components necessary for the manufacture of vaccines? i hope that the risks have been properly assessed.
mr president, madam commissioner, this crisis has taught us that in the field of health, there are things we can do much better if we do them in a coordinated way at european level; and others, directly, if we do not do them at european level, we cannot do them. and there are so many examples that we would never have finished. this is why health needs more europe. we need a europe of health, more health federalism in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity, but if there is one area in health policy that we need to strengthen, at all levels of government, it is prevention and promotion. so one strategy that allows us to move in this direction is health in all policies. we have to pass the health tests of all public policies, from education to industry, from territoriality to taxation. so taking care of policies is very important for citizen governance, agriculture, research, trade, regional development policy. and there is no better way to build a europe of health than by firmly imposing the health strategy in all european policies. with or without immunity, we will fight to the end for a fairer and more democratic europe.
mr. chairman, ms. commissioner, the past year has shown us the importance of preserving health and the need to invest in public health. we are aware that we have learned the hard way and have seen all the weaknesses in health systems in the past year. but let's focus on the future. we need to create the conditions for stronger solidarity for equal treatment opportunities and equal access to healthcare for all in the union, reducing, of course, inequalities of access in the member states. i welcome the agreement reached on the european health strategy, in particular on the proposal to establish a managing authority to oversee the implementation of the programme, as well as the proposal to mobilise eu4health funds to strengthen the medical reserves of the member states. just a small digression, the world health organization estimates that medicines account for about 20 percent of total health spending in europe. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, in particular by means of implementing acts. the positive effects of the pooled public procurement of strategic stocks for the consumption of member states are undeniable, and will allow more money to be invested in medical staff, investment, innovation and digitalisation. it's really important. and while covid was the focus of our discussions, we're asking ourselves what about other diseases, screening, treatment. in addition, eu4health must be one of the mechanisms for the successful implementation of the european plan to fight cancer. it is a devastating fact that every nine seconds a new case of cancer is diagnosed in the european union, and we must not forget this. health is the greatest value we all have to care about, and eu4health is a clear signal that the eu cares.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the pandemic has shown how urgent it is to achieve a real european health union. the shortsighted sovereignty of the states which has prevailed in recent years in relation to a true federal europe has prevented the european commission from having specific authorities capable of fighting the pharmaceutical companies on equal terms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thanks to an italian woman, we were able to purchase the doses needed for all 27, initiating an equitable distribution that saved the vaccine plan from a dog of recklessness and arrogance. as early as october 2020, the commission had asked to present the plan for the distribution of vaccines, however, most states did not organize the logistics and infrastructure in time and today they are taking the responsibility off europe, to wash their conscience of their inadequacy. thanks to research funding, the industry discovered the vaccine in a matter of months, not years. these results are the result of a united europe, to which the states have ceded part of their sovereignty. eu4health aims to be europe's answer to the fragility of nationalisms, to achieve a union where the right to health is guaranteed to all and where governments are obliged to provide quality and accessible minimum healthcare. this is the biggest investment in people's health and, by extension, in the health of europe as a whole. a europe that is well and cares for its citizens is a just europe that has the basis for growth, prosperity and development.
mr. president, please! in the face of the pandemic, we have identified a number of shortcomings in the health systems of the member states and the need to work together has become clear. although the pandemic has brought us enormous hardship and will have many negative long-term consequences, the eu health programme is undoubtedly one of those positive sides. the fact is that, although healthcare is by far the most important issue for the future of europe from the perspective of the citizens of the european union, without the pandemic we would not have such a high-quality programme on the agenda. thanks to parliament's negotiating team, the programme will allocate a good €5 billion to ensure a comprehensive approach to health and reduce health inequalities in all countries and citizens of the european union. this programme will not only serve as a union tool for jointly managing future health crises, but will add value to the health policies of individual member states by creating strong foundations for cross-border cooperation, health promotion and disease prevention. this is the first milestone in the establishment of the european health union, placing the protection of citizens' health and the provision of health security for all on an equal footing among the main priorities of action. i'm proud that we've created this program, and all i want now is for it to be executed on time and successfully.
madam president! respected commissioner gentiloni, respected and respected. the next generation eu is an important temporary instrument to mitigate the economic and social damage caused by the pandemic, with a budget of eur 750 billion. whether it will actually mitigate it depends on the member states planning properly and channelling resources towards resilience, social justice, a green and digital future. i would like to make two points. first, in the process of recovery, a return to the old operating model is not possible and is not permitted. the european union is much more than a common economic area. in past crises, countries and the eu have focused on directly helping the economy, at the expense of people and the environment. this crisis needs to bring about a shift and start investing in people and the environment, in that order. secondly, the 750 billion euro is just a patch on the economic and social consequences of the crisis. we will need new investments and new forms of partnership with the private sector. the large, under-exploited potential represents investments with a social impact. these are private investments in a social service, which are reimbursed by the state in the event of a positive social impact. they can complement public investment and humanitarian action in a significant way and contribute to the dignity and well-being of all people. the success of such business models, which have a positive social and societal impact and are financially rewarding, is also excellent publicity and an example of due diligence and greater social responsibility of all enterprises and economies. thank you for your attention.
let the next speaker intervene. colleague, i am sorry to say we are taking note of that behaviour. (comments off mic)colleague, will you please ... (mr biedroń says ‘thank you very much’)as i said, we have to take note of this behaviour.
mr. president, please! i'm not going to go down on some of my colleagues, because this, my friends, is not about national policy, it's about the fact that we're talking about government attempts to silence free media in three countries. slovenia is not hungary or poland, but it is on its way there, unfortunately, and the union cannot afford to have a third in this club of illiberals who shamelessly exploit every lever of power to build an autocracy. the slow but steady silencing of critical media leads to a society of unity, of alternate realities, of course, adapted to the one and only. the union does not deserve this, and slovenia even less so, that we are talking about it now only because it has such a very harmful leadership, but it does, with the prime minister at the head. and because of his actions, his attempts to subjugate the public media, primarily the slovenian press agency, we are where we are. it's the noahide policies of his partners in government that got us where we are. is the experience gained so far sufficient, madam commissioner, to address these problems more decisively? because words alone are not enough.
in writing. it is clear that without coordination and decision-making at union level in adopting measures to adapt to the consequences of the current pandemic, the eu cannot be expected to be able to operate within its basic organisational postulates, in particular as regards the common market and the implementation of its four freedoms. i am therefore one of the first to strongly advocate such efforts and action at union level. i will also be among the first to advocate transparency, prudence and due diligence in the legislative procedures for adopting such binding decisions, in particular to ensure the highest possible standards of respect for human rights, which are particularly at stake in times of crisis. therefore, i consider the ep's decision on the urgent procedure for adopting the draft regulations for issuing the digital green certificate to be wrong. the urgent procedure does not accelerate the individual stages of the parliamentary decision-making procedure but simply skips over them. in concrete terms, this means that the legislative proposal in question will not be subject to in-depth scrutiny and review at the level of the competent parliamentary committees, which opens up the possibility of legislative anomalies and shortcomings. furthermore, i believe that the decision on the urgency procedure will not bring the digital green certificate to life any sooner in practice. only parliament has given up on ensuring the highest standards of protection for eu citizens and their privacy within its remit.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i refer to the albania report and first of all i would like to thank you for the good cooperation and the cooperative spirit in the preparation of the report. we have stated in the report that we welcome the judicial reforms, which in this form and in this drama are probably not to be compared. we have seen the progress in the fight against corruption and have mentioned it in the report. but of course there is still a lot to be done in the fight against organised crime, in the fight for media freedom in albania, but also in the question of supporting, for example, women who have been victims of domestic violence. it is not enough to pass the right laws, but it is also necessary to ensure that the authorities are able to respond appropriately to such cases and to provide women with security in this context. we need further modernisation of public administration, no question. albania is a country with a wonderful cultural heritage, rich historical treasures, a wonderful nature, natural treasures which are unfortunately being sought in vain in other parts of europe today. we welcome the announcement by prime minister edi rama of the planned establishment of europe's first wild river national park, on the vjosa: 300 kilometres of unimproved river, a jewel for species conservation, a jewel for biodiversity, something that fits into the green deal strategy. and we hope that we, on the part of the european union, can support this development through ipa iii funds and other financial means. but one thing is clear: we should also follow up on our announcements and start accession negotiations with albania as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today in the republic of north macedonia there is a drastic violation of human rights, the basic human right to self-determination. today in macedonia a singer, garvanliev, received more than 400 death threats just because he identified himself as bulgarian. today in macedonia 50 people were summoned by the brutal former yugoslav secret police to give explanations why they bought bulgarian books. today in the republic of north macedonia, bulgarian flags are being burned, colleagues. today in the republic of north macedonia people are getting used to it because they have defined themselves as bulgarians. today in the republic of north macedonia there are no more than 130 thousand people who have self-identified as bulgarians and who do not have the right to make this self-identification on the upcoming population census. this, gentlemen, is north korea. this is not happening in africa, this is not happening in asia, this is not happening anywhere in the world. this drastic violation of a basic human right is happening in europe, right under your nose, and that is why i am outraged by the behaviour of some of our colleagues, mainly from the socialist and green group, who pretend not to notice these drastic violations of human rights, but on the contrary try to place some hypothetical blame on the bulgarian government for defending historical truth. yes, goce delchev is bulgarian, yes, ivan mikhailov is bulgarian, yes, todor alexandrov is bulgarian, yes, the miladin brothers are bulgarians and they have always defined themselves as such. and yes, today in macedonia live hundreds of thousands of citizens who identify themselves as bulgarians and therefore, colleagues, do not allow the hypocrisy of trying to pretend that you do not see this drastic violation of their rights. and don't allow yourself to impose double standards, that simply cannot and will not happen, because it contradicts any idea of the european union, because it contradicts all your ideas about how the rights of every single human being to self-determination should be protected. and this, again, is happening in europe. you can't change the fact that until 1944 macedonia was bulgarian and it will remain so.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, i will speak in greek because today is a very important day for greece: it is 200 years since the greek revolution, which was the beginning of the end of the ottoman empire in the balkans, but also the beginning of european solidarity, because the revolution won thanks, of course, to the heroism of the insurgents, but also thanks to the european solidarity expressed at that time by the democratic forces and democratic people of europe. but already from those years to today, there was a son, to use a term, the son of the balkans, which meant wars and national conflicts. it has continued through the ages and through history; the european union has been a major player in the fight against terrorism, and it is not surprising that the european union has been a major player in the fight against terrorism. today, such viruses still exist: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are serious issues, there are less serious issues, such as eurovision and who will be the singer at eurovision; but there's an antidote, a cure for all of this. the medicine, the vaccine against the balkan virus is the spirit of the prespa agreement. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am extremely concerned because i have the strong feeling that the european union is losing the western balkans. the momentum given by the council's decision to open negotiations with albania and north macedonia has crashed on the bulgarian side, and the covid pandemic has exacerbated some geopolitical trends already in place, amplifying, also due to the geopolitics of vaccines and infrastructure, the role of china, russia, turkey and the united arab emirates, ready to exploit the political vacuum, or at least perceived by our partners, and left by us, the eu. we need a change of pace, we need decisive action so that this disaffection does not become a genuine alienation. it is important to build on the progress made by serbia, albania, north macedonia and kosovo and to turn them into opportunities rather than focusing solely on shortcomings. the negotiations on albania and north macedonia must be unblocked as soon as possible by the organization of the intergovernmental conferences and it is essential that all the countries of the western balkans be genuinely and seriously involved in the important moment of reflection we are about to face: the european union must be able to play a leading role in the future of europe, and the conference on the future of europe, a european project of which they must unequivocally feel that they are once again a full part. and all of this depends on us, too.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there is no doubt that north macedonia has consistently implemented profound reforms in recent years in order to become part of the european union. the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency. the country has changed its constitution. yes, it even changed its name to become part of this european community, and those were hard very hard steps to become part of the community. and of course i do not want to hide the fact that there is still a need for reform. this concerns the fight against corruption, but also the strengthening of an independent judiciary. i am confident that there is still a will for change and that the pace of reform can be maintained. but it must be said that north macedonia has done its job. it is up to the european union to do its part and ours. if we want to remain credible in this region, it's high time. i would like to make a very clear statement on the concerns of my bulgarian colleagues: i understand these concerns and i appeal to both countries to reduce their language and to focus their differences on the common future of the region. threats and political propaganda are in stark contrast to the values of our european union.
madam president, as part of the western balkans, serbia and the region as a whole are at a crucial juncture. the future of both the region and the countries in it will depend on the decisions and actions taken in the post-covid-19 period. despite the heavy burdens of its past, the region is a part of europe. in a way, you could say that membership of the euro-atlantic integration is its natural development goal. of course, this does not make the path to that goal easier or simpler. the process of eu enlargement is and has been demanding for all current member states, requiring profound social, political and economic reforms and changes in their countries and societies. the key challenge facing serbia today is therefore how to ensure that eu integration and the negotiation process itself are not technical and mechanical but require the implementation of key political, economic and wider social changes and reforms. these are reforms that are not only aimed at eu membership but are above all necessary to increase the welfare and general well-being of serbian citizens. only through these reforms will serbia be able to fully and fully enjoy the benefits of membership once it is a full member. in doing so, it must be borne in mind that without political reforms, there will be no lasting economic success. a modern, full-fledged democracy, based on a culture of dialogue, respect for fundamental values such as the rule of law, media freedom, human and civil rights, are the foundations on which states and societies can flourish socially, legally and economically. it is not a question of the technical adoption of legislation, but of its actual implementation in everyday life. so, in essence, it is not about any eu requirements, but about the needs of serbia itself. unfortunately, there are no shortcuts, but it takes hard work and a hard search for a broad political and social consensus. of course, there are tempting shortcuts, but that doesn't... (the president was interrupted by the speaker. )
mr. president, it's been almost four years since the murder of investigative journalist daphne caruana galizia. she was brutally murdered for the simple act of performing her duties in the public interest and exposing corruption. four years, and it still seems that the whole process of finding the culprits and finding justice is getting more and more elusive. what message does this send to investigative journalists across europe? when will we reach the epilogue of this terrible story and resolve the systemic flaws that have brought us to this point? so far, five of the seven men involved in this murder have tried to make a deal with the state. the only one convicted so far is the killer, who confessed to the murder himself and negotiated a reduced sentence to cooperate with prosecutors. and now the two of you would further negotiate immunity by revealing your past criminal activities. - you mean it? everyone involved must be given a fair trial. no one should be spared. but we also need to get to the bottom of corruption and all the political connections. the spikes.
it is important, madam president, that the agreement until 2027 on the extension and upgrading of the european globalisation adjustment fund should make it possible for workers made redundant in companies with 200 or more employees to be eligible for aid. the reduction of the number of employees criterion from 500 to 200 is particularly important for member states such as slovenia, where smes employ almost 70% of the workforce. under the new scheme, aid will also be granted to selfemployed persons who have ceased their activity for structural reasons. the commission will continue to support the development of the social dialogue and the social dialogue with the social partners, including through the european solidarity corps. this fund is therefore a necessary complement to the missing social dimension of the just transition fund and i expect the commission to come forward as soon as possible with a proposal to extend and upgrade the key measures in response to the pandemic crisis into permanent mechanisms for a more resilient and social european union.
in writing. the european parliament has introduced a number of safeguards into the european commission's proposal for a regulation on the so-called digital green certificate, and it is crucial to me that the certificate will not be mandatory, will be limited in time, will require member states to provide free access to testing (the cost is now up to eur 100 per person) and will in particular strengthen the rights of cross-border workers, thereby facilitating people's movement between countries. the proposal also provides that the european parliament has an important supervisory function over the implementation of the provisions of the regulation in the areas of impact assessment on free movement, fundamental rights of citizens and the protection of personal data. the amendments proposed by the european parliament, in general, in my view, include all the key elements for ensuring respect for the human rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens of the european union. the certificate is not (and will not be) a condition for the exercise of the free movement rights or fundamental freedoms of the union's constituent treaties on which the union is founded. the certificate shall only serve as a framework to facilitate free movement during the covid-19 pandemic. in view of the above, and considering that it is particularly important in the circumstances to ensure coordinated action by the member states, i support the establishment of an appropriate legislative basis for the implementation of such a proportionate measure.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, in this difficult context the only path towards lasting peace is the full implementation of the peace agreement in all its parts, with the continued support of the eu and international stakeholders. this is our message to the government and to the people of colombia. comprehensive and sustainable peace will necessarily require further efforts to resume a genuine dialogue to end and prevent further violence. this is crucial for colombia’s socio-economic development as well. colombia is a key partner of the eu in latin america, a stable democracy and a like-minded country in many areas. we share the ambition to deepen and broaden our relationship, and you can rest assured that peace-building will remain a shared priority. i agree with those that have mentioned the importance of protecting human rights defenders and social leaders. the commission is providing concrete support through the campaign ‘defendamos la vida’ and through direct assistance to defenders at risk with protection programmes such as protectdefenders.eu. we are also giving support to the special investigation unit in the prosecutor’s office for the dismantling of organised crime and the protection of human rights defenders, as well as to the office of the high commissioner for human rights in colombia and to the ombudsman’s office to strengthen their human rights monitoring capacity, including on early warnings against attacks on human rights defenders and social leaders. as you all know, and as many of you have mentioned, almost two million venezuelan migrants and refugees are in its territory; colombia is by far the most affected country in the region. with its hospitality and generosity, colombia has set an example to the world. the eu has so far provided eur 320 million in assistance to regional efforts to cope with this migration crisis and will continue to stand by its latin american partners. the vp/hr josep borrell and commissioner janez lenarčič publicly praised colombia’s historic decision to grant temporary protection status to venezuelan migrants. at the same time, the continuous deterioration in the situation in venezuela also affects colombia from a security perspective. armed groups, the national liberation army and farc dissidents are finding refuge behind the venezuelan border. the eu is closely following the recent clashes, which seem to be the consequence of disputes over the control of illicit economies and which have forced many civilians to flee their homes. the situation is very complex and the challenges remain serious. the eu will continue to support colombia in addressing them, making the best use of all available tools and areas of our cooperation. i appreciate the support of this parliament in maintaining the focus on this important peace process.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 29 april 2021.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs alviina alametsä, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a european parliament recommendation to the council, the commission and the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on eu-india relations (2021/2023 (ini)) (a9-0124/2021).
rapporteur. – mr president, india and the eu need to work together to combat the climate crisis and promote human rights and peace. these are some of the things emphasised in the recommendation to the eu-india leaders’ meeting on 8 may. we must build a strong and enduring partnership with india but, first and foremost, we need to be there to help our partner today. currently, the alarming situation of the covid-19 pandemic in india requires our immediate attention. at the beginning of the year, it seemed as if india had already won the battle against the virus; but, as we know, things change rapidly with this pandemic. currently, india is facing an unprecedented covid-19 crisis, witnessing a record number of infections and mortalities. that is why we should extend as much help as possible to the indian people. i fully welcome the commission’s announcement to provide support to india following the request they made to the eu. portugal, belgium, romania, luxembourg and sweden have so far offered their assistance through the eu civil protection mechanism, and it would be very important for many more of our member states to contribute as soon as possible. the first shipment of assistance from britain arrived in india yesterday, and with the situation in which the indian health services are in – lacking oxygen, ventilators, other medications and also vaccinations – the speed of assistance from the eu is of the essence. india showed solidarity with many countries earlier on in the pandemic by contributing to the covax system and donating free vaccines to low-income countries. now that the tables have turned, we must show india at least the same kind of solidarity. this is a moral imperative, but it’s also a precondition for us all to one day surmount this daunting health crisis. we truly are all in this together. this call for cooperation is exactly what i hope to also convey with our recommendations for the eu—india leaders’ summit. we need to strengthen our partnership, and while eu-india cooperation already extends to many sectors, there is plenty more to build on. our countries have a lot in common. both the eu and india have a strong motivation to tackle climate change and what we need now is mutual action. as the world’s largest democracies, we have all the possibilities to build climate diplomacy and promote cutting emissions globally. however, the eu—27 and india are still the third and fourth largest emitters of co2 emissions worldwide respectively, even though india is currently on track to achieve and go beyond its nationally determined contributions. the eu and india must both, therefore, do more to tackle climate change with ambitious targets and also by collaborating in technological innovations. we need to commit to climate neutrality and the paris agreement. we have the tools and skills to do this, so let’s rise to the challenge together. the eu-india high-level meeting will convene in virtual format on 8 may and will take stock of the implementation of our partnership and the roadmap 2025 that was agreed upon last july. now i hope that the positive progress made in many areas will give us the confidence to effectively address human rights questions. we have to place human rights and our values at the heart of the eu’s engagement with india, thereby enabling a results-oriented and constructive dialogue. this applies for both the eu and india. we need concrete goals and progress in basic rights, freedom of speech and assembly, minority rights and democracy. and i have to say that the eu is also far from reaching all of its goals in terms of human rights and democracy. so there is a lot to work on. eu-india local human rights dialogue took place recently, but this is far from enough to address the human rights concerns that should be brought to the discussion with the leaders at the highest level. the eu is currently discussing the emerging indo-pacific strategy and i welcome the coordination between eu and india policies in the region. we need shared commitment and cooperation for sustainable peace and security, and we also need joint efforts to integrate women and young people in decision-making, and also strategies on peace and security. i see many possibilities for future cooperation, but now health is the priority, and we must help india. my wish is that the eu will prove our partnership with india in practice with solidarity.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, i’m pleased to participate in this exchange with you on behalf of the vp/hr borrell, on the important matter of eu—india relations. first i would like to thank the rapporteur alviina alametsä and colleague meps who have worked to prepare the report you are presenting here today. it could not be more timely and comprehensive. in january last year, the first visit outside the eu of mr borrell as vp/hr was to india. this is a clear sign of the importance the eu attaches to our relations. the eu—india strategic partnership still has a lot of untapped potential, and since last july’s summit we have observed a step change in the intensity of our exchange. we are at a crucial juncture in the consolidation of the eu—india strategic partnership. only ten months after the july 2020 summit, we are preparing a virtual eu—india leaders meeting next week, with all eu—27 heads of state and government attending, together with prime minister modi and the presidents of the european council and the european commission. the response to the covid—19 pandemic and the aim to jointly build global health preparedness and resilience is at the heart of the upcoming meeting. india is particularly hard hit, and the eu has offered its concrete support. we have now activated the eu civil protection mechanism upon request from india and we are doing our utmost to mobilise assistance rapidly by coordinating eu member states that are ready to provide support. so far 15 member states have offered concrete support in the form of liquid oxygen, ventilators and medicine. another shared challenge is climate change. at the leaders meeting we also hope to confirm ambitious commitments ahead of the cop26. india’s contribution to the paris goals is essential for attaining the ultimate target of carbon neutrality. as we speak, the eu—india climate change dialogue is taking place. we aim to cooperate more closely with india on all aspects of the digital transformation, and we are preparing the first meeting of the joint task force on artificial intelligence. trade and investment relations is also an area in which our cooperation can grow. we also strive to deepen cooperation with india on foreign affairs and security for a safer, prosperous and more democratic world, from afghanistan to myanmar to eastern africa. there is big potential for working together now that india is a non—permanent member of the un security council, sits on the un human rights council and will hold the g20 presidency in 2023. india has a pivotal role in the defence of a free, open, inclusive and rules—based indo—pacific space. the most recent council conclusions on the eu strategy for cooperation in the indo—pacific will enable the eu to engage much more with india on this. we also plan to launch an eu—india connectivity partnership which should cover the areas of digital energy, transport and human connectivity, through bilateral cooperation, but also by converging our efforts to better connectivity with third countries and regions. human rights and democratic values are also at the heart of our engagement with india. your report highlights a number of concerns. let me assure you that the eu raises these matters with india through different channels. earlier this month, in the ninth eu—india human rights dialogue, the eu expressed the need for greater engagement on several human rights issues and we underlined the important role that civil society actors and journalists play in a vibrant democracy. further, we agreed to enhance our cooperation in international fora, particularly at the un general assembly and un human rights council. finally, let me stress that the commission attached great importance to the parliamentary dimension of the eu—india strategic partnership and we welcome the recent understanding reached between this parliament and the lok sabha to intensify interparliamentary exchange.
before i continue the debate, i ask the next speaker, mr mcallister, to understand that we have to go to the second round of voting. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
the items on which we are now voting in the second round of voting are on the agenda. the voting round will now begin. it's open until 9:10 p.m. the same voting procedure as you are familiar with will be used. the votes are by name, and they begin at this moment. i should also like to point out that the results of the second round of voting will be announced tomorrow morning at 9 a.m.
we now continue our debate on the report by mrs alviina alametsä on eu-india relations (a9 0124/2021).
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, at the european union, we share strong political, economic, social and cultural ties with india, the world’s largest democracy. for this reason, the news we are hearing from india about the critical situation related to covid—19 in the country is so shocking. the european union, in close cooperation with member states, as we just heard, is mobilising support and assistance through the eu civil protection mechanism to help our trusted partner. it is crucial to quickly support india in these critical days. i believe the full potential of our relations with india should finally be unleashed. it is about accelerating and strengthening the strategic partnership – a strategic partnership based on common values and principles, as well as on joint interests. with the roadmap to 2025, agreed on in july last year, there is a solid basis to do so; now it needs to be further implemented. the eu–india leaders meeting on 8 may, as mentioned by the rapporteur and the commissioner, will be a good occasion to take stock of the progress achieved so far and to intensify our future cooperation. four areas will be key: global health issues, climate change and sustainable growth, technology, trade and investment, and foreign security and defence. a final remark: india is an important partner for the eu when it comes to preserving and promoting the rules—based multilateral order. therefore, let us improve our cooperation on geopolitical challenges, especially in the pacific and in international organisations. the upcoming summit should create positive momentum and clear steps to deepen our strategic partnership. this is the expectation of the epp.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, india has seen incredible growth in its global economic and political weight. this is why the eu—india strategic partnership is of ever greater importance for international cooperation in general. the porto summit is an excellent opportunity for the further strengthening of our political, economic and social ties. the stability of the indo—pacific area is of common strategic interest, where mutual cooperation should be strengthened in light of china’s growing influence in the region. this should not be seen as a tool for confronting china, but as a tool for limiting its narrow regional agenda. bilateral trade with india has seen extraordinary growth over the years but there are many opportunities that remain unexploited. we need strong political will to negotiate a comprehensive and mutually—beneficial agreement, which should include all aspects of trade, from investor protection to social and workers’ rights. the eu and india could and should intensify cooperation on digitalisation and climate change. opportunities for cooperation are practically unlimited in fields such as research, innovation and the development of new technologies. this would enable us both to achieve ambitious climate goals and foster international cooperation in combating climate change. respect for the rule of law, human rights and good governance are fundamental values that should be addressed in an open and constructive dialogue. some recent trends in india raise particular concerns. we call on india to fully implement the recommendations made by several international institutions. we expect the world’s largest democracy to demonstrate its commitment to respect and fully enforce the constitutionally guaranteed rights of all of its citizens and to put an end to all forms of discrimination. india needs an open and vivid civil society, and civil society organisations must be able to carry out their work without any obstacles. we hope for india to make further progress as regards gender equality, especially in effectively combating and preventing gender—based violence. we believe that increased cooperation can, and will, help india to overcome its deep social stratification, contributing in this way to its overall progress and development.
mr president, the european union has a historic responsibility to honour its climate commitments and to help others, developing countries, the most vulnerable groups and indigenous peoples. it can do so by first strengthening financial instruments in relation to its climate action but also in relation to development cooperation, thereby strengthening the resilience and preparedness of vulnerable societies. and so do the companies. they must ensure that the principles of social responsibility and due diligence are respected throughout the supply chain. and because migration, this kind of migration, is becoming a problem, we need a proper legal framework. this legal framework must harmonise humanitarian protection standards within eu law, while international protection must be respected and developed in relation to international law. finally, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her comprehensive report.
in writing. even before the recent israeli-palestinian crisis, the eu had repeatedly expressed its concern also over the acceleration of israeli settlements in the west bank and east jerusalem. a fair position but not enough. our culpable negligence has in fact endorsed the policy of force of the netanyahu governments. the result is right before our eyes: the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the peace process. hamas has guiltyly thrown gasoline on the fire by hitting innocent israeli civilians and exposing the population of gaza to military retaliation, but this cannot justify the brutal disproportionate armed response of the israeli government. i am therefore convinced that the european union should adopt sanctions against netanyahu and hamas as a means of pressure to achieve an immediate ceasefire and the resumption of peace negotiations, which would put an end to this nihilism. the european union has enshrined the promotion of human rights and peace in its treaties. this parliament is committed to these values. to confine ourselves to circumstantial condemnations would expose us to an unbearable hypocrisy for which history will hold us accountable.
in writing. i strongly condemn the rocket attacks against israeli cities and any civilian population. i want to express my full solidarity with israel, whose legitimate right to self-defense is beyond question. all the people of the middle east have the right to security and peace! achieving this goal should be one of the eu's top priorities! if the eu continues its previous passive approach, it will become an even less important player in the region. the most important task now is to stop the attacks on the civilian population, which cause innocent victims. i hope that the appropriate diplomatic and political steps will be taken as soon as possible to curb the violence. any further rocket attacks will only increase the distrust between the parties and make it completely impossible to resolve the conflict, will not help the situation of the palestinian population and, moreover, will seriously jeopardise regional security and stability. and we cannot afford to do that, because only peace and stability in the middle east can prevent new waves of migration from coming to europe.
in writing. – the truth is that there is no longer any reasonable way by which outsiders can support israeli policies towards the palestinians and the eu should make this clear. israel is leaving palestinians only with the options of anger and despair. the start of today’s escalation originated with the expected eviction of palestinian families from their east jerusalem homes. however, legal tit-for-tat cannot hide any more that israeli policy aims to enclose palestinians in a bantustan under israeli domination, even while more palestinian lands are taken over by illegal israeli settlers. ritual claims that those who resist this are terrorists and anti-semites no longer hold water. though in military terms, israel remains dominant even when under attack, it is terrible that the progressive and peace-loving potential majority within its population has been unable or unwilling to maintain the political momentum toward the two state solution, which is the only feasible one… or perhaps was, given the levels that communal antagonism has now reached. eu policy should build on a frank and honest appreciation of where the responsibilities lie for this tragic state of affairs. it is no longer possible to adopt an approach set out in terms of … on the one hand … but then on the other …
the next item is the report of mr tonino picula, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the reports on montenegro for 2019 and 2020 (2019/2173 ((ini)) (a9-0131/2021).
the reporter. mr president, mr commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for the opportunity to present in this format the report on montenegro relating to the european commission's report for 2019 and 2020. from the last report on montenegro to today, a lot has changed. today's plenary debate is taking place in the special context of the first democratic transition of power in montenegro in 30 years. the record turnout in last year's parliamentary elections was certainly in itself a clear political message from the citizens of montenegro. i welcome the peaceful transition of power in accordance with the laws and constitutional timetables and the fact that the new authorities have held their first working meetings with partners in brussels. but the peaceful transition, unfortunately, has not been cemented in constructive dialogue and cooperation. in view of yesterday's announcement that the largest opposition party will not participate in the work of the assembly, including the electoral law reform committee, i want to make it clear: it is of the utmost importance that the assembly functions as the central place of democratic political action, and that the cohabitation between the president and the prime minister is constructive and in accordance with the constitution. i remind you that although it has been almost half a year, montenegro still expects a vote on the budget - the budget for the current year, which certainly creates additional political pressure. speaking from my personal experience gained from the complex croatian transition, i would like to stress that it is necessary to accept the positive elements of the current political legacy and to upgrade and make it more effective. similarly, membership of the european union must not be an alibi for political blockades or political manipulation of any political option. on the contrary, a political agreement or alliance on european issues, despite political differences, is crucial to accelerating the process of accession to the european union. this is important because montenegro has gone the furthest on this path by opening all and temporarily closing three chapters. as far as further progress is concerned, the greatest challenge is closing the open chapters. i support the adoption of the new negotiating methodology, but it is clear that overall progress in all chapters and clusters will depend on progress in the rule of law sector, namely chapters 23 and 24. that is one of the main messages of the report i am presenting today - underlining the limited progress that montenegro has made in judicial reform. the independence of the judiciary is guaranteed by the constitution of montenegro, which provides for the independence of the judiciary. their upgrades need to be measured. the principle of separation of powers must not be called into question. we have been following closely the events of the past week in the house and the vote on the public prosecution bill which, by its outcome, will surely affect the tone of this debate. we support the consultation of the venice commission, but we expect full, not partial, compliance with both sets of recommendations. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission in order to ensure that the union's actions are properly implemented. i welcome the recent actions related to the fight against organised crime and i condemn in the strongest terms the death threats and i call for the support and protection of all those working on this. today i want to highlight the importance of freedom and independence of the media, which is a concern. the last five reports from the european commission have rated it as "no progress". i call for an immediate investigation of all attacks on journalists and the punishment of the perpetrators. the eu has also been active in promoting the rights of the child, including the right to education and the right to health. from the current political developments, i want to emphasize the obligation to protect the rights of minorities. especially since some of them, for the first time, have no political representatives in the assembly. i condemn in the strongest terms the post-election attacks on them, the initiative to name a street after a convicted war criminal, as well as the incident of genocide denial in srebrenica, which was nevertheless responded to in a timely manner. the report emphasises the constructive role of montenegro in the context of regional cooperation and neighbourly relations. the full compliance with the european union's foreign and security policy and participation in joint missions to date is to be commended. we expect to see a continuation of that policy. in the context of recent indications regarding the border agreement, i want to make it clear - bilateral agreements on borders must be respected, and on open issues try to reach an agreement. if that is not possible, such disputes shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the international tribunal. given that montenegro, in the so-called second wave of the pandemic, is one of the most affected countries in europe in terms of health and economy, i support the activities of the european commission and the continuation of the assistance action for faster vaccination and improvement of health systems in the region. it is our duty and obligation to help those neighboring countries more as the pandemic does not stop at our borders. personally, i think we should help montenegro negotiate loans with international financial institutions to be able to reprogram its external debt to china, which seriously threatens the sustainability of public finances and has significant political and environmental consequences. but additional eu assistance will only be meaningful if it is based on legislative reforms that are in line with european standards and recommendations. a successful partnership is always based on mutual contribution. finally, what is particularly pleasing, but even more binding, is the exceptionally high level of support for montenegro's membership in the european union. it also increased to 76.6%, while 80% of citizens have a positive opinion of the european union. this should be a guide for domestic political actors to respect the clear will of citizens when it comes to joining the european union, but it also represents an obligation for the european union to preserve its credibility and to give new impetus to enlargement policy. i believe that the future of montenegro is in the european union, and the inclusion in the work of the conference on the future of europe, it and the countries of the region, is a symbolically important step in that direction. - thank you. - thank you.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to start by underlining the eu’s and our presidency’s unequivocal commitment to montenegro’s european perspective. we aim to advance the enlargement process as much as possible and we welcome the overall progress made in montenegro’s accession negotiations so far. all the screening chapters have been opened and important work on alignment with the acquis has taken place in many areas. we welcome and support montenegro’s strategic choice of joining the european union as well as its acceptance of the enhanced enlargement methodology. this methodology aims to enhance the enlargement process, and i am pleased to recall that the council has already agreed on how to accommodate the methodology also to existing negotiating frameworks with montenegro. the enhancement methodology will bring a stronger focus on the rule of law, fundamental rights, the functioning of democratic institutions and public administration reform, as well as to economic criteria. more political steer will strengthen the dialogue with the candidates and help them focus efforts on key reforms that should allow for further progress. the goal is also to increase the dynamism and improve the predictability of the accession process based on objective criteria and rigorous positive and negative conditionality. we welcome the fact that montenegro has accepted the new methodology. we are convinced that applying this new methodology will serve to reinvigorate the enlargement process. in this light, the presidency hopes to organise an intergovernmental conference with montenegro at the end of june, assuming conditions are in place. against this background, we encourage the new montenegrin government to remain firmly on the eu path, including by continuing to fully align with eu foreign policy and to proactively step up and reinvigorate all reform efforts. on the reform efforts, the message – also well reflected in your report – is clear: montenegro still has work to do in order to meet the crucially important interim benchmarks set for the rule of law chapters. the implementation of reforms, particularly in the key critical areas of media freedom and the fight against corruption and organised crime, must be intensified. a renewed commitment to the implementation of the judicial reform is also needed. remaining gaps and open issues should be addressed and reduced. i would like to recall that the progress on the rule of law will continue to determine the overall pace of negotiations. finally, let me recall our appreciation for the overall constructive contribution of the european parliament, and of mr picula in particular, to advance montenegro’s accession process.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, mr picula, thank you for your continued strong support for the european perspective of the whole western balkans. in march, during the joint debate on the progress reports on albania, kosovo, north macedonia and serbia, i already informed this house that we were working on providing vaccines to the western balkans to fight the covid—19 pandemic. so let me give you a short update. in the meantime, i travelled to the western balkans for the delivery of the first doses of the covid—19 vaccines funded by the european commission. in total, 651 000 pfizer—biontech vaccines will be delivered to the region between may and august in weekly tranches. this is also thanks to the help of the austrian government. the eu stands by the western balkans in the covid -19 fight. since the start of the pandemic, we have provided emergency support, including equipment, and redirected funds to mitigate the socio-economic impact of the covid—19 crisis. there was a particular focus on the healthcare sector, and the first vaccine deliveries will now ensure that all frontline medical workers in the region are vaccinated, as well as some other vulnerable groups. we care about our partners. between now and august, over 42 000 doses will be delivered to montenegro to help to accelerate the vaccination among healthcare workers and vulnerable groups. this comes on top of the vaccines montenegro got via the covax facility, where we are the top donors. through this first eu vaccine-sharing and with covax, montenegro will receive close to 130 000 doses of vaccines, and the whole western balkans almost a million vaccines. we have been by montenegro’s side from the start of the pandemic. we indeed very quickly committed eur 53 million to respond to the urgent health needs and support economic and social recovery in the country. in addition, we have approved eur 60 million in macrofinancial assistance, and we are right now preparing to release the second tranche of eur 30 million, expected to be released by the end of may. we are also fully committed to rebuilding the economy. this is the purpose of the economic and investment plan for the western balkans, which we adopted last october. with the substantial amount of eur 28 billion, this plan has the potential to make the western balkans much more attractive for investment and to change the realities on the ground for the people of the western balkans. the plan will strengthen infrastructure, create jobs, boost growth potential for local businesses, improve the lives of montenegrin citizens and contribute to a more resilient future. the plan also offers a path for successful regional economic integration to help accelerate convergence with the eu and close the development gap between our regions, ultimately speeding up the process of eu integration. last but not least, as the largest provider of financial assistance and montenegro’s main trading partner and the main investor in the country, the eu is financially involved in many ways. we are working with the montenegro and european international financial institutions to make sure that montenegro uses the full potential of the economic and investment plan and secures the sound investments needed for growth and recovery, while also securing serious reform commitments from montenegro to improve its competitiveness and its public finance management. the economic and investment plan will make a real difference for the economic recovery and the economic convergence of the entire region with the eu. the western balkans need these investments as soon as possible. let me stress that, to provide this support, we need the ipa iii regulation in place immediately. i hope we can reach a political agreement at the trilogue planned for 2 june, confirming to the region that the eu is a credible partner. let me turn to the montenegro report. first, i would like to thank mr picula for his work and commitment. following the elections of last august, the country is going through a transition period. however, i am pleased that eu accession remains the top priority for the new montenegrin government. with the revised methodology that montenegro has opted into and the council has agreed to, we now have the opportunity to bring stronger political steer to the process and accelerated integration. so i look forward to holding the first ‘political’ intergovernmental conference with montenegro as early as next month. clearly, the next milestone is meeting the interim benchmarks of the rule of law, chapters 23 and 24. before this, no chapters will be closed. so now more results are still needed in key critical areas, such as media freedom and the fight against corruption and organised crime, as well as a renewed commitment to the implementation of the judicial reform. on a positive note, we have already seen the new government’s commitment in a number of crucial areas. allow me to name just a few examples that maybe you have taken note of as well. the montenegrin parliament is taking steps to increase transparency and participation. but more cross-party dialogue is needed so that true progress can be made on eu-related reforms, most notably on judicial appointments. the government has also announced the phase-out of the economic citizenship scheme. this is very welcome. as regards the reform of the prosecution service, we welcome that, in the process of the revision of the law on the state prosecution service, montenegro has twice requested the venice commission’s opinion. we trust montenegro will address all the remaining issues, as highlighted in this opinion, both through legislation and through its implementation. in conclusion, our priority now is to work with the government and its authorities to help them to translate their commitment into tangible progress on the ground, in particular in the area of the rule of law, in order to bring forward eu-related reforms without reversing earlier accomplishments.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, commissioner, the western balkans is like a death train in an amusement park. those who are up, the next moment they can come down. we have seen this over the last 20 years with the progress reports of those countries seeking membership of the european union. in the latest report we praised montenegro, and i congratulate the rapporteur, as the most advanced and promising country which gives us hope of success in the negotiations on the enlargement of the european union. in my opinion, montenegro should step up its efforts to improve the position of national minorities. respect for languages, cultural heritage and traditions is of key importance and is part of our european values. i therefore call on the government of montenegro to resolve with its neighbours the outstanding bilateral issues and to fully accommodate the succession issues, especially with regard to military assets. in order to achieve full reconciliation with its neighbours, montenegro must improve its efforts to punish war crimes and to shed light on the fate of missing persons. finally, given that the european union has mobilised significant financial and material assistance to combat the coronavirus pandemic, i would say too little and too late, and as part of ipa funding, we need to increase the visibility and highlight the impact of our european assistance. and on a final note, i hope that we will have a final decision on the ipa trilogue very soon.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank mr tonino picula for his excellent report. montenegro has been a candidate country for accession for nine years now, and yes, there is progress in the negotiations. but i would certainly like a more ambitious negotiating commitment to move quickly. it is gratifying to see that an overwhelming majority in the country remains in favour of eu membership. i think that we must not jeopardize this by any further delay. the commission's progress report shows only moderate progress in the area of media and media supervision, where montenegro urgently needs to stay on the ball. it is essential to further strengthen the independence and diversity of the media in the region as a pillar of democracy and a guarantor of trustworthy information. the eu must continue to support the country in this area. the country is making good progress in education, with the dual training system showing initial successes, and its participation in the erasmus+ programme is another example of this positive development. however, there is still work to be done in the area of the inclusion of roma and people with disabilities in the education system. yes, the future of montenegro lies in the eu, and i am very confident and hope that the negotiations can be concluded soon.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, after a transition of power resulting from democratic elections, montenegro is at an important crossroads. the country is highly politically polarised and the way in which this polarisation will or will not be neutralised will define the future of the country. the best way forward is the continuation of the reforms, combined with an acceleration of accession talks, which will take the country towards full eu membership. reforms are needed for the benefit of all people of montenegro, regardless of their ethnic, religious or political conviction. only through economic and political reforms can montenegro hope for a future that is more prosperous. this includes strengthening montenegrin democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights like freedom of the media, freedom of speech, and human and civil rights in general. without reforms, montenegro’s future is in great peril of taking a devastating twist in the direction of ethnocentrism and instability. the country needs to understand that the european path might not be the easiest one, but it is definitely the best one. the challenge of chinese loans clearly shows there are no easy shortcuts and the price of taking it is enormous: it is the future of the nation. this is why i call on the commission to work with the montenegrin authorities to find a sustainable solution for the looming debt crisis. at the same time, montenegro must use the full potential of available european funds for the development of the country in line with the green deal and digitalisation. the future of montenegro is in the eu, but its success lies in the hands of the montenegrin authorities, which must make all the necessary efforts in overcoming divisions within its society for the benefit of all its citizens.
in writing. the international community recognised the interdependence between human rights and the environment 50 years ago, at the first united nations conference on the environment. today, we are facing a climate and environmental emergency that makes the debate about the relationship between human rights and the environment all the more relevant, and with it the role of environmentalists. a healthy environment is a prerequisite for respect for human rights. the protection of the human rights of those who protect the environment must also be ensured. the eu's commitment to protecting environmentalists both vis-à-vis third countries and within the union is key. on a global scale, on average, more than four environmental activists lose their lives every week. the eu has many levers, particularly in the context of trade agreements, with which it can make a significant contribution to preventing such atrocities. supporting the work of ngos is also key to protecting environmentalists. the latter is also relevant for the eu in the light of the green transition, where civil society is recognised as a defender in the democratic space in the field of environmental affairs. i am therefore particularly pleased that the resolution proposed by parliament calls on the commission to develop eligibility criteria for eu grants that would also allow smaller environmental ngos to have more inclusive access to funding. in this way, they would make a significant contribution to supporting the activities of ngos, especially in small member states such as slovenia.
in writing. the erasmus+ programme is a success story for the european union and is consistently highlighted in eurobarometer surveys as one of the union's key achievements. since the programme was set up in 1987, more and more citizens have been able to venture out into the world and learn about other european cultures. against this background, the strengthening of the programme was a priority for us in the european parliament when negotiating the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework. i am pleased to note that the budget for erasmus+ will now be almost double that of the previous period, with over eur 28 billion allocated from various sources, compared with eur 14.7 billion in the previous seven-year period. the new programming period covers all sectors of education, youth and sport, as in the previous erasmus+ programme. the objective is to mobilise these sectors for a rapid recovery and future growth, while promoting green and digital transition and inclusion. the growing budget will enable more and more individuals and organisations to participate, including those from weaker backgrounds. erasmus+ also supports, for example, the widespread deployment of european universities, the discovereu initiative and the new teacher academies. i am very pleased with the whole thing and hope that we can take all the joy out of it, especially as the pandemic is still easing a little.
the agenda includes the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on culture and education on the european solidarity corps programme (14153/1/2020 - c9-0143/2021 - 2018/0230 (cod)) (rapporteur: michaela šojdrová (a9-0156/2021)).
rapporteur. – mr president, last but not least today, i am honoured to be the rapporteur for the european solidarity corps programme. it’s the flagship eu programme for volunteering and volunteering is a true form of solidarity. we know that financial support for volunteering pays off in society – for every single euro spent, volunteers are able to multiply it 10 times or more through their voluntary work. allow me to present this programme and its development. the european solidarity corps succeeded the european voluntary service programme, which was a part of erasmus+ for 20 years until 2017. then the programme went through a three—year pilot parent and was transformed with the new title, european solidarity corps, and new activities. of course, the last year of this period, 2020, was harried by the pandemic. however, despite this crisis we have managed to complete the work on the programme in close cooperation with many organisations, stakeholders at eu and national level. they were motivated by good experience with the pilot phase until 2020, during which almost 50 000 participants in the programme participated. so now, we are going to approve the trilogue agreement about the european solidarity corps programme for 2021 to 2027. the main objective of this programme is to enhance the engagement of young people and organisations in solidarity activities, mainly volunteering. the participants will have an opportunity to gain experience in volunteering and to start a continuous engagement as active citizens. the participation for the next seven years is expected to be up to 350 000 participants aged from 18 to 30 years. for the humanitarian strand we negotiated age limit of 35 years and the possibility to engage experts and coaches without an age limit. we acknowledged the specific character of humanitarian activities at the demand of the committee on development (deve) and humanitarian organisations. the programme will be implemented within two strands: solidarity activity and humanitarian aid and in four actions: volunteering, solidarity projects, networking and measures for quality and support. the programme will also be available to third countries, for example, to members of the european economic area or to candidate countries. allow me to summarise our priorities, which we negotiated in trilogue. we established volunteering as a main activity. we introduced the indicative repartition of the budget per four activities: volunteering and solidarity projects 94%, humanitarian volunteering 6%. we maintained the clear focus on mobility and european added value. we kept in country activities at 20%. we included a governance guarantee by limiting the commission’s possibility to deviate from defined activities. we elaborated on better accessibility and on inclusion. we enhanced the safety and protection of participants through better insurance and requirements for working with vulnerable groups and through precise quality labour requirements for organisations. we agreed with the budget, according to the mff deal, of eur 1.009 billion. it’s a good basis for the development of this new self—standing programme. the implementation of the programme has just started, which is possible thanks to the retroactive clause. the first courses were launched in april. i would like to thank the commission for this rapid implementation. however, we are aware of some challenges, so let me use this opportunity to briefly raise two issues. there is the persisting problem with the it tools. it’s not new, but it’s urgent for the commission to fix the problem please. the second one is our kind reminder to the commission not to forget the possibility to launch the central grants for european umbrella organisations. excuse me, i had to mention all these details because they are important for participants. but in the end, i would like to express gratitude for what we have achieved together. i would like to thank all shadow rapporteurs: domènec ruiz devesa, irena joveva, niklas nienaß, elżbieta kruk, alexis georgoulis. also, our committee on culture and education (cult) chair, sabine verheyen, to the committee on development (deve) rapporteur, ms beata kempa, and of course the cult advisers, the council presidency and the commission, especially commissioner gabriel. i’m looking forward to good cooperation in order to develop this programme and to meet the expectations of the beneficiaries. so, new stage of the programme is coming.
member of the commission. mr president, madam rapporteur, dear mrs šojdrová, ladies and gentlemen, solidarity between european citizens and between member states, as well as with our partners, is one of the fundamental values on which the european project is built. the current crisis has reminded us that we are stronger together and united. thanks to the volunteering opportunities offered by the european solidarity corps, we have seen many initiatives from our young people. volunteering is at the heart of the programme, which mobilises young people and empowers them to play a role in society and become real agents of change. with the new european solidarity corps, young people who want to engage in solidarity activities in europe and beyond will have a single window to simplify their approach and give their engagement more visibility. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteurs, ms šojdrová and ms kempa, the entire negotiating team and all the members of the committee on culture and education and the committee on development for their work. thanks to you, we have a stronger european solidarity corps. we share a common vision of the main features of the programme, namely to provide the younger generation with opportunities that will enrich both their lives and the lives of those they wish to help. all europeans should be able to benefit from the opportunities offered by union programmes, in particular the less privileged. to meet this need, specific inclusion measures have been put in place and will allow more people and organisations to participate in the european solidarity corps. the ambition of the programme is not only to be more inclusive, but also to be more green and more digital. in addition, for the first time, the programme will also allow young people to volunteer on humanitarian aid projects. in addition to these four areas of action, the programme will have the flexibility to add annual priorities to take account of urgent issues; this year, for example, healthcare is the case. the european solidarity corps supports young people's engagement in society and their learning mobility. it offers many opportunities to develop non-formal and informal skills, in order to support the entry of young people into the labour market, thereby contributing to the recovery of the youth sector and mitigating the socio-economic and educational consequences of the pandemic. it is therefore a powerful tool to address many of the challenges facing european youth. with a budget of just over eur 1 billion, 15% more than its predecessor, the european solidarity corps will enable more than 270 000 young people to contribute to tackling societal challenges by volunteering or setting up their own solidarity projects, including in the field of humanitarian aid worldwide. let me conclude by reaffirming my confidence in the programme's potential, because the 'european solidarity corps' is relatively young, but interest in the programme continues to grow and has not diminished during the pandemic. the programme now has a new basis and strong strategic orientations. i see the full potential of the european solidarity corps to become a new flagship european programme, alongside the erasmus+ programme. we launched the first call for proposals to support youth volunteering activities a month ago, on 15 april. and this year, with a special focus on activities and projects in the field of prevention and health support, we hope to mobilize volunteers as part of our joint efforts to fight the pandemic. our young people have much to contribute to society. the 'european solidarity corps' is a valuable and powerful tool to encourage them to be active, to show solidarity and to share their time, commitment and passion for the causes they care about. thank you again for your support. madam rapporteur, i can assure you that the questions you have raised will be taken into account and that we will come back to you shortly with solutions that will bring benefits to us as europeans.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. i think we have concluded the negotiations on the european solidarity corps very well for parliament. volunteering will be the main activity of the programme, which has been parliament's priority from the beginning. and we are now able to guarantee a higher quality of volunteering activities, focusing on education, on skills acquisition, but above all on solidarity. we will also be able to be more inclusive in the programmes from now on and be able to include more disadvantaged young people. the commission and the member states will now have to explain how they are actually involving disadvantaged young people in voluntary work. these young people will have the opportunity to volunteer in their own countries, in some cases to make volunteering, voluntary work, possible in the first place. as humanitarian volunteering involves particular challenges and requires a number of specific skills and experience, we insisted in the negotiations that the age limit for humanitarian volunteers be raised to 35 years and that experts be included as professionals and supporters without age limit. i think this is particularly important in the context of deployment, especially in the context of development aid, humanitarian aid. we can use this programme to show european solidarity. we can support young people in acting in solidarity.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, it has been a great honour and pleasure to work on the new european solidarity corps programme. we've made it more accessible and inclusive. we also managed, together with our colleagues from the committee on development, to add a humanitarian aid package to further promote volunteering in this area. but the work is not yet finished, in fact, it is just beginning. the european solidarity corps needs to ensure a sufficient level of promotion to reach and attract as many young people as possible to take advantage of all the opportunities offered by this programme. we also need to monitor the implementation of the programme and set high standards to ensure that young people have a great, safe and well-structured life experience. unfortunately, the new european solidarity corps has arrived a little late, but i believe that despite this, we will not leave behind any young people who want to join the programme. this week is national volunteer week here in slovenia, so i want to take these last few seconds to say a heartfelt thank you to all the volunteers and volunteers. i have the utmost respect and admiration for you, even during the pandemic, or especially now. you are a formidable force, showing your solidarity and selflessness. it's a gift.
mr. president, i have to go. respected, respected commissioner, reporting officer! the revision of the aarhus regulation is in fact a transformation of the principle of environmental protection into a part of environmental rights, and in doing so we are following at the level of the european union what is already happening at the level of the national courts, what is most likely to happen before the european court of human rights and what we have after all also written in our charter of fundamental rights. the burden of human rights should not be too heavy for anyone, not even for the european union. it is therefore necessary to ensure that this revision is carried out so that this right to environmental protection can be effectively realised and so that the european union can set a credible example both in the international community, that is to say, in international law, and in its relations with its member states. why would you do that? because many member states, which are in effect abusing the current recovery times or the coming recovery times to avoid introducing those environmental safeguards that already exist, are simply not taking them into account. unfortunately, slovenia is one of them. now, this revision itself means above all that we are not introducing any new rights, but merely implementing those that already exist and are binding on the european union in accordance with its being a party to the aarhus convention. those who are targeted are in fact civil society, ngos and specifically interested individuals, so not absolutely everyone. what is important is that this right, through this revision, will correct the shortcomings we have had so far, namely our failure to respect the aarhus convention, in particular by becoming effective. in particular, i would like to stress that we are eliminating the possibility of exemptions for certain european union acts, that they are in fact protected from scrutiny, administrative scrutiny, even though they have a negative impact on the environment. i think this is an essential point which needs to be emphasised, but i would like to say that we are gaining in the legitimacy of the green deal and, finally, that it is backed by a broad consensus of the political parties in this parliament. so i thank both the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs, all the advisers and assistants. i hope that this consensus will be translated into votes.
the conflict in nagorno-karabakh has dragged on for far too long and continues to be a major concern for us, the european union, particularly with regard to the return of prisoners of war after the ceasefire was reached. there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the fate of the armenian prisoners of war and, above all, a great deal of dissatisfaction with the way the azerbaijani authorities are acting. let me be clear: the armenian prisoners of war must not be branded criminals in order to evade international law. both azerbaijan and armenia are partners in our eastern neighbourhood policy, but unfortunately this framework does not provide any useful leverage to exert the necessary pressure on azerbaijan. the eu cannot, however, be discouraged from increasing its commitment to active and maximum support for the minsk group, which can be effective in this area in the context of the osce and which, thanks to the french co-presidency, must be particularly sensitive to the eu's impact. i therefore call on the european external action service to contribute as much as possible to the efforts of the minsk group to bring about a rapid and adequate de-blocking of this unacceptable situation.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, for a long time azerbaijan and armenia have been locked in the nagorno-karabakh territorial conflict that led to the loss of lives, including the civilian population, internally displaced people and many sufferings from the both sides. the european parliament has always stood for the respect of the sovereignty and territorial integrity and i welcome the agreement from november 2020 on a complete ceasefire in nagorno-karabakh. despite the fact that the changes to the status quo were made through military force rather than peaceful negotiations, we have to admit that azerbaijan acted exclusively within its internationally recognised borders. i hope that this agreement will open now a brighter perspective for a peaceful settlement and good neighbourly relations in the future. however, recent developments show us that the confrontation is far from over. therefore, i urge the european union to play an active and important role in this conflict.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, six months after the ceasefire the situation on the ground remains fragile – as the recent incursion of the azeri army into armenian territory shows. the issue of the status of nagorno—karabakh is far from being settled. war is being glorified and hatred against armenians incited in the so—called trophy park, and the government of azerbaijan refuses to comply with international obligations and is unlawfully keeping prisoners of war and civilian captives. all armenian prisoners – military or civilian – detained during or after the conflict have to be immediately and unconditionally released. the security of the armenian population in nagorno—karabakh has to be ensured by all means, and their cultural heritage protected. the final status of artsakh cannot be imposed by force of arms. there has to be a political solution that takes into account the democratic will of the population living there. at the time of the ceasefire the eu was simply absent. now it’s time for us to engage in the peace process in order to bring about stabilisation, reconciliation and a fair settlement.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! i've been to both countries a dozen times, and to the mountains of the south caucasus more than 20 times, so my knowledge is not academic. i know these people, i know these countries, i know their specifics, i know their history. i would be careful about these very easy, simplistic judgments and assessments that we, the people of the broadly understood west, sometimes come across so thoughtlessly. i would like to say that we are politicians in this house, although perhaps many of us wanted to be ombudsmen, human rights advocates. we should choose the geopolitical context: what's good for russia? it's good for russia to push these countries into the russian sphere of influence, and i'm very wary of that.
for the left. madam president, madam commissioner, the exchange of prisoners of war is a very essential part of finding peaceful coexistence between two hostile parties. it instills a sense of confidence and is an act of hope that military force is not the sensible way to go between civilized nations. so, under no circumstances can you advocate for a party that either rejects or doesn't honor prisoner exchange agreements. this is a diplomatic, political and primarily human error. unwillingness to participate in these exchanges signals that for at least one side the conflict is not over and may soon flare up again. and that is not acceptable. it is also necessary to oppose the refusal of states to report prisoners of war and thus to keep them secret. such practices are unfortunate and reprehensible. i believe that after the bloody lessons of the past, all should respect human principles, and the solidarity demonstrated by the exchange of prisoners of war is certainly one of them.
madam president! actually, it's a very simple matter. international humanitarian and military law provides that, after the end of hostilities, all parties concerned shall facilitate the exchange, return or repatriation of detained persons or prisoners of war. in fact, international law also provides for an instrument to make this possible, namely the international committee of the red cross, which is supposed to keep records of detained persons or prisoners of war and their repatriation. azerbaijan can use any pretext it wishes, but the only way to confirm its membership of the international community and its commitment to a peaceful settlement of the nagorno-karabakh conflict is to allow the international red cross to independently and openly register all detained armenians in its prisons and, together with the international red cross, to allow their unconditional and immediate return, or repatriation, to armenia. all other paths lead to further and deeper conflict.
in writing. the social summit in porto is the first major milestone in the construction of a social europe since the proclamation of the european pillar of social rights in 2017. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the cfsp and its implementation, in particular by ensuring that the union's financial instruments are used effectively and in a timely manner. the european union is also committed to the development of a social europe based on the principles of the lisbon treaty and the lisbon treaty. in order to achieve the key objectives by 2030, indicators for their implementation should be developed without delay and the objectives supported by appropriate european and national means. in this light, i welcome the adoption of the reinforced european social fund plus (ess+). it is a major but far from sufficient source of funds that could, on its own, ensure the transition to a green and digital economy, taking into account in particular the economic and social consequences of the pandemic, and it is therefore unacceptable to seek to address those challenges at the expense of priorities for the esf+. in line with the porta commitment, there is no doubt that national recovery and resilience plans must include a social component in addition to digital and green.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. we can safely say that europe is in a state of emergency with respect to the value of the rule of law. the european commission published its first rule of law report last september, which responds to this emergency by examining the independence of the judiciary, media freedom, anti-corruption mechanisms and the functioning of democratic checks and balances in each member state. this annual report is an important step towards strengthening the rule of law mechanisms in the european union and can be seen as a complementary tool to the procedure under article 7 of the treaty on european union (teu). unfortunately, since 2010, the hungarian government has been playing a leading role in reinforcing this rule of law emergency. despite the article 7 procedure initiated in 2018, the situation of the rule of law and democracy in hungary has deteriorated drastically over the past three years. in recent months, from the outsourcing of public assets to private foundations to the adoption of the latest bill that discriminates negatively against lgbti communities, there has been a continuous and systematic violation of the values listed in article 2 of the teu. when we fight for the rule of law, we fight for our citizens, to prevent the abuse of state power. it is therefore necessary to speed up the rule of law procedure so that government measures that restrict citizens' rights are immediately terminated after the detection of systematic violations. we, european democrats, are fighting for the removal of the orbán government and the restoration of the rule of law. orbán is not equal to hungary!
the rule of law is the backbone of our democracy. with this annual report, the european commission wants to work with the member states in a preventive manner to identify problems in the area of the rule of law and to find solutions together. that is a good and necessary thing. but let's be honest here. some member states are well beyond the stage of preventive dialogue. hungary proved with its anti-lgbtiq legislation that it is once again moving against the european project and further descending towards an anti-pluralistic society with less and less room for a well-functioning rule of law. the european commission not only can do more, it must do more. citizens must be able to count on europe to protect their rights. i call on the european commission to stop delaying. take action against member states which do not respect the rule of law, either through infringement procedures, article 7 or the regulation on a general conditionality regime to protect the union budget. add action to your words and protect our citizens, whoever they are, wherever they are in europe.
the next item is the report (a9-0185/2021) by mr paulo rangel, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the 2019 and 2020 commission reports on bosnia and herzegovina (com (2019/2171 ((ini)).
rapporteur. – madam president, bosnia and herzegovina is, by history and geography, at the heart of europe. ethnic and religious diversity is at the core of the european union’s dna, and so the future integration of bosnia and herzegovina could not be more natural. the european parliament is a strong supporter of bosnia and herzegovina’s european path. we want bosnia and herzegovina to progress in its way to the european union and fully commit to the genuine reconciliation that warrants the democratic and multicultural character of bosnia and herzegovina. it is clear that deep reforms are still to be implemented in order for bosnia and herzegovina to reach their aspired candidate status. however, taking into account the particularly acute situation caused by covid—19, some progress was made, and here let me underline the elections in mostar. for 12 years, people were not able to vote in local elections and the city was left without a local government. last year, political leaders found ground for compromise and mostar citizens were heard last december. furthermore, our parliamentary dialogue was finally re—established. after years of not being able to meet, the eu—bosnia and herzegovina stabilisation and association parliamentary committee finally met last week, and we were able to restart an essential parliamentary cooperation. there is a lot to do regarding the implementation of the 14 key priorities. we know that it’s a long way. nonetheless, i truly believe that bosnia and herzegovina can achieve more and deliver faster results. to give one example – a good one – authorities have started the debate on the constitutional and electoral reform. we know how demanding such changes are, but if there is political will and commitment they will be able to succeed. i hope – we hope – that this work, with the support of the european union and the united states, can bring the constitution and electoral law into line with eu standards before the 2022 general elections, ensuring an adequately diverse political representation at all levels of governance. it is high time for all constituent peoples and all citizens in bosnia and herzegovina to have their democratic representation fully ensured, complying with european court of human rights decisions and european standards in this very sensitive area. it is possible and it is feasible. again, it is a matter of will. bosnia and herzegovina is not the only multi—ethnic state in europe. future reform must guarantee absolute respect for the multicultural and pluralistic nature of the country, whilst ensuring a functional and viable democracy where all the peoples and all the citizens are equal. a solution must be found within a broad and inclusive debate and dialogue in the country, having in mind that, for it to be possible and sustainable, all the three peoples must embrace it. let me kindly and humbly remind you that all leaders and authorities must be clear when explaining the advantages of eu integration and make sure our support is known by the people, namely the economic recovery assistance and the efforts to create better conditions for young people to stay in the country. continuing efforts on meaningful, genuine reconciliation with the troubled past of bosnia and herzegovina are crucial. you know that there is a particular field which we all must work on: education. a reform of the education system must take place, namely by warranting equal education for all children and young people, ending any segregation. it’s never too much to say: rule of law reforms are urgent. there has been no progress in the judicial area, which deeply undermines society’s trust in the institutions. the fight against corruption must be a focus of all authorities. effective and comprehensive country—wide human rights and anti—discrimination strategies, as well as measures against interfaith and inter—ethnic intolerance are also needed, especially when talking about vulnerable minorities. we know that migratory pressure is a matter of great concern for all of us. better coordination and burden sharing should be ensured across the country to build up the capacities to manage the thousands of migrants and asylum seekers. i am also thinking of the brain—drain on the economy and of the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina. this resolution is also an act of faith. we believe in the bosnian peoples and citizens. we believe in bosnia and herzegovina, and we believe in the european vocation and future of bosnia and herzegovina.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, allow me to begin in portuguese since i would like to congratulate the rapporteur paulo rangel in my national language. – senhor deputado, gostaria de começar por manifestar o meu reconhecimento pelo seu trabalho e empenho enquanto relator deste importante relatório sobre a bósnia e herzegovina. a presidência portuguesa do conselho investiu uma importante dose de energia política no dossiê do alargamento e no processo de estabilização e associação, e ontem tivemos a ocasião de debater o tema no conselho de assuntos gerais, no luxemburgo, e organizar as primeiras conferências intergovernamentais políticas com o montenegro e com a sérvia ao abrigo da nova metodologia do alargamento. além disso gostaria de saudar aqui o importante acordo alcançado com o parlamento europeu, em sede do trílogo sobre o regulamento ipa iii, um instrumento que esperamos possa entrar em aplicação nos próximos meses, apoiando os países beneficiários, incluindo a bósnia e herzegovina. i will switch now back to english to recall our unequivocal commitment to bosnia and herzegovina’s european perspective as a single, united and sovereign country. that said, the country’s progress towards the european union depends on its efforts to comply with the required membership criteria. the country needs to fulfil the 14 key priorities identified in the commission’s opinion endorsed by the council in 2019. the council has urged all political actors to overcome divisive and secessionist rhetoric rooted in the past, to end the glorification of convicted war criminals and to demonstrate full cooperation with international tribunals by respecting their decisions. the recent final decision on the mladić case is important also in this context. overall, bosnia and herzegovina has achieved limited progress on reform over the past year, despite some new momentum and some positive steps taken recently. the council shares the rapporteur’s assessment that it is now necessary to start addressing reforms aimed at fundamentally improving the legislative and institutional framework and to comply with the requirements for eu membership in several areas. it is also of particular relevance to improve the functioning of the judiciary and the fight against organised crime and corruption. while we welcome last year’s holding of the first local elections in mostar since 2008, as you mentioned, further constitutional and electoral reforms are needed to ensure the equality and non—discrimination of citizens. in this regard, we noted that the constitution remains uncompliant with the european convention on human rights. the council also shares your position that bosnia and herzegovina should take the necessary steps to guarantee freedom of expression and media freedom and ensure the protection of journalists. a safe and enabling environment for civil society is essential to ensure the necessary support to the reforms to the european path. the council has welcomed bosnia and herzegovina’s continued active participation in missions and operations under the common security and defence policy. however, we are seriously concerned that the country’s rate of alignment with the common foreign and security policy has dropped this year. the impact of covid—19 has led to a sharp drop in economic activity in bosnia—herzegovina and in the region, with a severe impact on social cohesion and on the most vulnerable groups. the union will continue to provide much-needed assistance in the western balkans, including to bosnia and herzegovina, and all the three institutions remain committed to further cooperation with and support to our partners in the region.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, dear rapporteur rangel, this debate is the last in the series discussing the reports of 2019-2020 of the commission enlargement packages, concluding a very intensive period of exchanges we had over the past months on a range of issues. in this context, before turning to bosnia and herzegovina, let me first thank the two co—rapporteurs, željana zovko and tonino picula, as well as the whole ep negotiating team for the work on the instrument for pre—accession assistance, also known as ipa iii, because the political deal we reached at the beginning of this month is a balanced compromise on an important instrument that will deliver assistance to the enlargement region and allow us to kick—start the implementation of the economic and investment plan for the western balkans. the plan will upgrade infrastructure, support businesses and accelerate the green and digital transformation of the western balkans. for bosnia and herzegovina, this means investments in key infrastructure such as the corridor vc highway and railway, road connections to serbia and montenegro, and gas and electricity transmission networks with neighbouring countries. the demining of the river sava will also help boost inland waterway trade and to get over the past of the balkan wars. during the last plenary debates, i gave you a short update on our covid—19 assistance to our western balkan partners, so let me provide you with some figures regarding bosnia and herzegovina. since the beginning of the pandemic, we redirected eur 80.5 million in grants for immediate needs and socio—economic response to the pandemic. we also secured macro—financial assistance of eur 250 million under very favourable loans, and it was ratified by bosnia and herzegovina just recently, on 9 june. the continued delivery of eu—funded vaccines is a sign of eu solidarity. with the support of austria we are delivering 651 000 doses of covid—19 vaccines from pfizer. out of this, 213 822 pfizer biontech doses are arriving in bosnia and herzegovina in regular tranches from may to august. they will help to immunise frontline healthcare workers and other vulnerable groups. covax, which we support financially, has also been steadily delivering doses – 191 000 doses so far to bosnia and herzegovina only. additionally, the country also received 30 000 doses from croatia and 4 500 doses from slovenia. we will not stop here, and we will continue mobilising more and more eu member states to share additional vaccines as soon as they become available. several member states have already announced upcoming donations to vaccines to the western balkans. honourable members, let me now turn to the bosnia and herzegovina report. first, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr rangel, for the hard work and continued commitment towards that country. since the last european parliament report on bosnia and herzegovina in 2018, the commission adopted in 2019 its opinion – an analytical report on the country’s application for eu membership – identifying 14 key priorities to be fulfilled ahead of opening accession negotiations. the eu council endorsed these key priorities in december 2019, and the commission reported for the first time on their implementation in its enlargement package only last year. we will report again on them this autumn, of course. bosnia and herzegovina has made some significant steps on its eu path, but most substantive issues remain pending. as i have told the political leaders of bosnia and herzegovina over the past year, we in the commission are ready to deliver, including on candidate status, provided that bosnia and herzegovina also delivers with results on fulfilling the 14 key priorities. i keep my promise. if bosnia and herzegovina’s leaders deliver, we are delivering. the country should make the most of the months ahead to demonstrate that it takes eu integration seriously. that includes launching a debate on constitutional reform, especially electoral reforms and the adoption of judicial reforms. as other eu candidate countries before it, bosnia and herzegovina needs to amend its constitution to comply with the requirements of eu membership. this means compliance with the european court of human rights’ rulings and ensuring equal representation in the country for all. it also means ensuring the functionality of state institutions so that they are able to effectively participate in eu decision—making and to enforce the eu acquis. this is an ambitious task that cannot be delayed any further. the reform is difficult and sensitive and will need the constructive engagement of all political leaders to make it a success. in this regard, it should be acknowledged as a first step in the right direction that the interagency working group started discussing electoral constitutional reforms in may this year. the working group provides a forum for inclusive and transparent discussions. regarding the rule of law, several reforms are pending as concerns integrity of the judiciary, more precisely amendments to the law on the high judicial and prosecutorial council, as well as concerning the conflict of interest and public procurement. this package of laws is about aligning with eu acquis and preventing corruption. we expect all parties to support it to demonstrate that they are serious in their commitments. to advance on its eu path, the political leaders also need to put a stop to negative rhetoric and denial of war crimes and genocide, which is unacceptable. finally, let me reiterate that bosnia and herzegovina’s future is within the eu as a single, united and sovereign country. the divisive rhetoric of the past months needs to stop. political representatives must focus on the much needed reforms to recover from the pandemic and on the changes that bosnia and herzegovina citizens are expecting.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i should like to thank the commissioner very much for his nice words on adopting ipa iii. yes, it is a very good instrument that might help the western balkans and maybe bosnia and herzegovina. in one minute, it is very difficult to say what will be the future of bosnia and herzegovina. i have here a colleague, klemen grošelj, who shared the same past 30 years ago. milošević tried to abolish one people – a few people; we know how it resulted. there are some in this parliament who are trying to abolish constituent people from bosnia and herzegovina. reality. i’m just warning you, once this resulted in a really bad tragedy. now people are leaving, young people are leaving. it’s quite a shame that we are going against resolutions. six years we were trying to put bosnia and herzegovina on the real path. if the constituent people concept is taken out of this resolution, i must say that we have not learned anything in these 30 years. and it’s a real shame. i’m a girl from mostar, and in the memory of cutileiro, maybe the portuguese delegation should remember what he tried to do.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, bosnia and herzegovina belongs to europe. therefore we are calling on the member states to finally grant bosnia and herzegovina candidate status. parliament’s report assesses that bosnia and herzegovina has made some progress, but there is still some way to go. the country must overcome its ethnic tensions. we underline the need for constitutional and electoral reforms to eliminate corruption. we must strengthen media freedoms, civil rights and fundamental rights for all. no discrimination against people because of their ethnicity, gender or sexual orientation can be accepted. we are fighting for a prosperous bosnia and herzegovina with strong social cohesion and social justice that will improve the everyday life of the ordinary people. bosnia and herzegovina needs a public administration reform so that the different levels of state can function properly. i urge the authorities for progress regarding the situation of the refugees who are stuck in bosnia and herzegovina. they must be treated in line with international norms. sanitary facilities, food supply, access to the health system and proper accommodation must be granted. and i want to be crystal clear: pushbacks and violating international law must be stopped at the external eu borders. in the end, i think we should adopt this report.
on behalf of the renew group. - madam president! bosnia and herzegovina is a special country, some might even say a complex country. first of all, it's a state that was founded on the dayton peace accords, and whose priority was not how the state would function, but how to achieve peace. but as the report before us, which we will be confirming, shows, the country and we europeans, bosnia and herzegovina, are faced with an important choice. either it will be a state founded on ethnic and other divisions, or it will be a state whose future will be based on the values and principles on which the european union is founded, that is, on the principles by which the peoples of europe have overcome the divisions of the past. the future of bosnia and herzegovina is in europe. this is our moral responsibility and our political opportunity. but this requires urgent reforms, summarised in the european commission's 14 points. the first of these is certainly comprehensive and inclusive electoral reform and constitutional amendments, which must be based on the judgments of the european court of human rights and other competent international and national institutions. but we certainly do not want an agreement that resembles the agreement that made the local elections in mostar possible and that, above all, consolidated the existing ones and offered new divisions. only in this way will bosnia and herzegovina be a modernised and reformed state of all its citizens. it will also be a country that is firmly on the road to the european family, embodied in the european union, and that will break the bonds and banish the ghosts of a tragic future. above all, it will prevent a repetition of history, whether that of a hundred years ago, which was reflected in the first tragedy of the twentieth century, or that of thirty years ago, which ended in the srebrenica genocide.
in writing. at a time when the eu is under increasing attack from fundamental european values, led by gender equality, which fell out of the leaders' declaration at the social summit in porto under pressure from poland and hungary, and at a time when the pandemic has severely limited access to health services in this area, it is crucial that the european parliament debates and takes a clear stance in support of the right to sexual and reproductive health. the sexual and reproductive health of women is also increasingly seen in the eu as secondary and less essential, and subject to the creation of a false conflict between women's right to sexual and reproductive health, reduced to the right to abortion, and the right to life of the unborn child. at the same time, it opposes taking a position on this issue at european level on the grounds that it interferes with the member states' sphere of competence. the right to sexual and reproductive health is an integral part of the right to health, in accordance with article 35 of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu. there is no doubt that the eu has a duty to promote and promote this right, education about it and to strive for equal and non-discriminatory access in the member states to products and services that ensure the highest possible level of sexual and reproductive health through its policies and actions.
madam chairman! there is so much we need to do across the eu to achieve our climate goals. in this house we often talk about the very great ambitions and the very great lines, but the road to that goal is also full of many small and impractical steps, such as putting green heat in the radiators of a school in poland or insulating a sports hall in north jutland. it's the low-hanging fruit. the ones we should have picked long ago, because we've known the solutions for a long time. it's just not every place has had the budget for it. but today we are helping municipalities and regions across the eu to set in motion the concrete green projects that will help us towards a climate-neutral society. the projects that have been postponed because the budget is too tight and the climate has ended up having to wait until next year. it just can't. so today we are making europe greener. we approve an agreement which will provide a financial boost for all the projects in the municipalities and regions which we know will reduce their co2 consumption and also create new jobs. i very much hope that more of our own people will start planning their contribution to the green transition now, because we really need everyone to come along.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the public sector loan instrument complements the toolbox available under the just transition facility to help regions meet the challenges of achieving climate neutrality by 2050. we just had a debate in this room about climate law. this debate is taking place right after what i consider to be a purely symbolic dimension. yes, the union sets ambitious targets, but it also offers effective tools to help achieve them. this is particularly important for regions heavily dependent on coal production, for which this transition will be particularly challenging. i believe that the loan facility, which is expected to mobilise some eur 30 billion over seven years, will provide real support to europeans through investments in, amongst others, modern heating networks, environmentally friendly transport, land reclamation and the upskilling of workers. i am also pleased to see the increase in the grant component for less developed regions, which will no doubt help them to use the instrument more effectively. however, we must remember that the challenges of transformation will not end in 2027 and it is important to bear in mind that similar support will need to continue in the future.
madam president, commissioner, two years ago i ran for the european elections with high hopes, with many aims, but also with two clear commitments to my home region, asturias. the first of these is likely to be closed today with the vote and adoption of this regulation to facilitate public investment in transition regions which, together with the fund and the special support from investeu which we have already approved several weeks ago, is an essential instrument for working with transition regions on a very, very important challenge. the second commitment was the introduction of a mechanism for adjusting the co2 imported at the border, a commitment which is still pending because we are waiting for the commission's proposal in the coming weeks, and i am confident in the work of this house and the council to close that adjustment at the border in the coming months and, as i say, to fulfil two essential commitments with my region, with asturias.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. otherwise, those who lack the financial means and the necessary budgetary space will fall into the gap between ambitious targets and insufficient funding. the public sector loan facility we are discussing is a step in the right direction. it does not, however, cover the major cuts in the funding of the just transition, which is the responsibility of the european council. that is why i support the initiatives of european governments, such as the draghi government in italy, to issue green bonds. the quality of our green future will be judged to a large extent by the level of financing for the necessary public and private investments.
member of the commission. - madam president! - i have to go. it was a very interesting debate, and thank you for all the votes. first of all, i would like to thank you for your support of the commission's initiative to introduce a just transition mechanism. we have a great common challenge as the european union, which is climate neutrality, and we have very different starting points to achieve this goal. this is evident in industry, which is why this fund is directed primarily to countries in the region that i myself come from, central and eastern europe, because there are really big problems with the transformation of industry, the coal-based economy. but if we look at the emissions map, for example, in agriculture - which is the area for which i am responsible in the commission - this map of risks looks very different. with an average of about two and a half tons per hectare per year in this particular part of central and eastern europe, these emissions are in the range of one and a half to two tons. in some european union countries, the figure is more than 7 tons per hectare, and even more than 10 tons per hectare. these are the countries with the most intensive agriculture. i'm talking about this to show that this problem of different starting points affects different sectors of the economy and we need to look everywhere for a fair approach. what we have achieved - and thank you again for that - this just transition mechanism is an important step to make this transition more just. whether it's enough is, of course, a matter of judgment, and that can vary. i also wanted to make it clear that at this stage there is no reason to predict which country or which particular company will be excluded. the commission has no intention or plans to do so, and all those who apply for these funds will be required to meet the same criteria, which are equal for all concerned.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 24 june 2021. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in accordance with its rules of procedure, parliament notes that following the resignation of ms ruža tomašić, her mandate will be terminated with effect from 1 july 2021.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the need to complete the appointment procedures as a matter of urgency in order to enable the european public prosecutor's office to be fully operational.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, dear commissioner reynders, honourable members, thank you for inviting the council to take the floor on this very important and urgent topic. first of all, let me emphasise that the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) is a great achievement for the eu, its institutions, its member states and its citizens. a solid, well—functioning eppo will play a key role in protecting the financial interests of the union and in ensuring taxpayers’ trust in the eu. this is especially relevant in a moment when, with the next generation instruments, the union will allocate substantial financial resources to relaunch the economies of the member states. the council welcomes the fact that the eppo started its operational activities on 1 june. this was a joint endeavour of our three institutions and was celebrated on the occasion of the justice and home affairs council held in luxembourg on 7—8 june, with the participation of the european chief prosecutor, ms laura kövesi. the council has successfully completed all the activities mandated by the eppo regulation for the establishment of the office, notably the appointment of the 22 european prosecutors in july 2020. supporting the establishment of the eppo has been amongst the priorities of the portuguese presidency, and this is why we discussed the setting up of the eppo at each of our justice and home affairs council meetings this year, including in march and june when the need for member states to take the necessary national measures was thoroughly emphasised. according to the eppo regulation, member states should nominate european—delegated prosecutors on the basis of the relevant national applicable rules. the commission is, in this case of course, responsible for monitoring whether eu laws are being applied correctly and timely. finally, i wish to draw your attention to the other ongoing work necessary for the full functioning of the eppo, and in particular to the issue of the eppo’s relations with third countries and international organisations. in this context, special focus is being given to ensuring that all participating member states notify the eppo, as the competent judicial authority, in relation to the european convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters. in this field, work is expected to continue on proposals that the commission will submit soon. in a nutshell, the council strongly supports the establishment and functioning of the eppo and will continue to do so within its mandate.
member of the commission. madam president, madam secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, as you know and as has just been mentioned, on 1 june this year we celebrated the start of the european public prosecutor's office's operational activities in luxembourg. and i do not hesitate to say that this was a highlight of the european union's history, probably at a historic moment. in the light of the forthcoming launch of the next generation eu programme, the role of the european public prosecutor's office will be of the utmost importance in protecting the union's budget for the benefit of its citizens, public authorities and businesses. i take this opportunity to thank your parliament again for the unwavering support you have always given to this project. however, this is not the end of our efforts. as any new body, the eppo will need some time to be fully operational and the commission is committed to providing it with all the necessary support. in order to achieve its crucial missions, the eppo needs in particular the european delegated prosecutors to be in place in all the participating member states. the delegated prosecutors are the cornerstone of the eppo. they will investigate and prosecute cases under the control of the central office. they will ensure that the eppo is duly represented before national courts. unfortunately, some participating member states have been late in nominating their delegated prosecutors, or some of them. the commission regrets that the eppo had to start its activities with no delegated prosecutors at all in two member states namely finland and slovenia. we have repeatedly reminded member states that the delegated prosecutors had to be appointed as a matter of the utmost urgency. in my numerous exchanges with the ministers of justice, i have repeatedly called on them to give this matter absolute priority. i'm pleased to report that most of the delegated prosecutors are now in place. i'm also happy that an agreement has just been concluded with finland so that the finnish delegated prosecutors can join soon as well. the commission will continue to do its best to urge the late member states to forward the names of the remaining candidates to the eppo. indeed, some member states, in fact seven, transmitted the names of only some delegate prosecutors before the eppo began its activities, but not of all of them. the commission is, however, concerned with the failure to appoint european delegated prosecutors in slovenia, which raises concerns that the national procedure has not been properly followed. in december last year, the state prosecutorial council submitted the names of two candidates to the slovenian minister of justice, but the government has not put the item on the agenda of its sessions despite a legal obligation to only take note of and transmit the names to the european public prosecutor's office. on 27 may, the government declared the selection procedures unsuccessful and instructed the minister of justice to publish a new vacancy. the commission is following the situation in slovenia very closely. i have contacted the newly appointed minister of justice and already expressed my concerns. actually, just today, i sent a letter to the new minister expressing my concerns and requiring clarifications. one thing is clear: the procedures to appoint the european delegated prosecutors shall be fully transparent. for this reason, i requested further information on the slovenian government's decision to annul the previous position, and i am awaiting the reply of the slovenian authorities. the eppo shall be responsible for the implementation of the eppo's mandate. let me assure you that the commission will take all appropriate measures to ensure that all the delegated prosecutors will be in place as soon as possible. we will also ensure that the eppo will function well and that national legislation allows the full functioning of the eppo. we are currently evaluating all their legislation and we will not hesitate to take all appropriate measures if we see that there are legal obstacles. we will have an evaluation of the implementing legislation and the functioning of the system after the summer, with the eppo, to see if there are any needs to take new contact with the member states to amend the different legislation. now we are putting pressure to have the last implementing legislation in two member states. in addition, to have a fully functioning eppo we need to give the eppo also the right instruments and, before the parliament, i am notably thinking of access to electronic evidence, the so-called e-evidence, where the commission's proposals for a regulation and a directive are currently in trilogue, and on which we really need to find an agreement soon, not only for the good functioning of the national justice system, but also for the good functioning of the european public prosecutor's office. i thank you for your support for the eppo. i hope that we will have the same support for the new instruments like the eevidence needed for the eppo. i'm now looking forward to listening to you, knowing that you have given us support, since the beginning, with regard to this new body.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, portuguese presidency, commissioner for justice, yes, the launch of the european public prosecutor's office is a step forward which expresses as few as the political dimension of the area of freedom, security and justice which makes the european parliament the criminal legislator, the legislator of procedural guarantees, as well as the legislator of fundamental rights. and the commission i chair, the libe commission, legislated - and i was the rapporteur - on the directive on the protection of the financial rights and interests of the european union through criminal law, which is the basis on which the european public prosecutor's office will operate in its investigations and criminal prosecutions. immediately afterwards - we did that in 2017 - enhanced cooperation was launched, bringing the number of member states to 22 and soon to 23 to make the european public prosecutor's office a reality. and in 2019 the european parliament committed to the appointment of its chief prosecutor, laura kövesi. it is now up to the member states to complete the procedure by appointing european delegated prosecutors. and some have already done so, some have implemented, even transposed, the european public prosecutor's office into their procedural and criminal legislation, as is the case in spain, just yesterday in the senate, but others are dragging their feet. and we are concerned that the next presidency will be the slovenian presidency, where there has been an episode in which prime minister janša has revoked nothing less than the appointment of the two european delegated prosecutors proposed to him by the slovenian prosecutor's office and has even led to the resignation of the slovenian minister of justice. so this worrying situation must be addressed as soon as possible so that the prosecutor's office can be set in motion, so that it means a before and after for the launch of the european prosecutor's office and its criminal actions. but also, and above all, to ensure that we also take up as soon as possible the enlargement of the powers of the european public prosecutor's office, not only for the criminal protection of the financial interests of the union, but for all serious transnational crime under article 83 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, including illicit trafficking, of course, terrorism, drug trafficking and money laundering from illicit business and, in particular, corruption.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, the non-appointment of slovenian delegated prosecutors is another in a series of controversial decisions by the government of mr janša, which not only undermines the rule of law, but is an attempt to make it more difficult, if not impossible, for this body, which is important for the european rule of law system, to function. the mission of this office is to combat the most damaging forms of crime in our society, namely the misuse of european funds and the worst forms of white-collar crime. whether the government of janša did this for internal political ideological reasons, the prime minister's personal grudge against both candidates, who also investigated his controversial actions, or for the payment of debts or favors to ideological allies in hungary, is not even relevant. it is important that this act, and especially the way it was carried out, has dealt a new blow to the rule of law in slovenia, on the eve of the presidency of the council of the eu. what message did this government send to the eu? there's no use wasting words. but it's a sample. after attacks on the media, on individual journalists, after the financial exhaustion of the slovenian press agency with the aim of destroying it after thirty years of operation, thus destroying one of the symbols of slovenian independence, after the political subordination of the police and many other state institutions to the very narrow interests of the leading coalition party, this government of janez janša has only strengthened its intention and deliberate policy of weakened rule of law by this act. not only does it use legally questionable, if not illegal, methods, but above all it communicates that, despite the frequent rhetoric and shouting in public, it does not want to see independent independent work of prosecutors at both european and national level. and that is precisely the aim of the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office: to strengthen the independence and effectiveness of investigations and the work of prosecutors in this important area for the eu, the fight against crime and corruption.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues. the masks are finally off. after nine months of pretending to be a democratic process, the eca has shown that it is a misuse of demography, an undermining of european values gender equality, women's rights, the prohibition of discrimination. the committee's report is less ambitious and less advanced than the documents of both the commission and the council. however, through negotiations, both technical and with the shadow rapporteurs, we have managed to correct this text. bringing a positive attitude towards older people into it, linking demographic change with respect for the whole life cycle and human rights. the links between the principle of gender equality and demographic change are important for s&d, and full respect for women's rights, including sexual and reproductive health and rights, is needed. the ecr certainly did not do all this for its own sake, and today it is mocking the european parliament by introducing an alternative resolution that erases gender equality, women, minorities, even young people. he denies that more than half of europe. it's a terrifying vision of the future of europe, held by the radical populist right in poland, as well as by imitators elsewhere in europe, including slovenia. the fact is, he wants to be faithful to a woman just to have children and take care of a family. he loves the elderly and the disabled and reinforces their dependence, and he talks about the countryside as a museum of customs. all of this needs to be said no to today, loud and clear. europe is not going back to the middle ages. the european parliament is the home of european values.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have just come from months of presidency in which, thanks to the efforts of prime minister antonio costa and chancellor merkel, we have brought home important results for europe. now it is slovenia's turn, and in wishing you a good job, mr president, we must remember that less than a year ago it opposed, together with poland and hungary, the introduction of the rule of law conditionality for the union's budget, an act which risked blowing up the whole next generation eu plan, with which europe wanted to give a response to families and businesses affected by the economic crisis. and it is thanks to that historic recovery plan that we can now look to the future with hope. we have many challenges ahead of us: to emerge from the pandemic with the health union, to start the green and digital revolution, the union's strategic autonomy. but all this, beyond the priorities of your presidency which we share, must be done in the awareness that the european union is a community of destiny and within a framework of shared values. we would therefore like to know from you whether your presidency really intends, as you have said, to put the rule of law at the top of the political agenda and whether you still intend to follow hungary and poland in the so-called sovereignist values chart or whether you intend to build, also for your own citizens, a more integrated, more united, more solid and supportive europe. to ask you which side you want to be on means to ask whether the leadership of the coming months will be appropriate to the epochal challenges facing europe, as previous presidencies have been and as we sincerely hope.
madam president, i would like to thank the prime minister for setting out an inspiring vision. europe is indeed facing formidable challenges and as we are still struggling with the pandemic we’re already facing the climate crisis which will be infinitely bigger than the covid crisis. so we need a strong and united europe more than ever. but the european council is paralysed, unable to find a common response to migration, to putin or zuckerberg, and most importantly, it allows the deep rule of law crisis to fester, to eat away the foundations of our community of values. mr janša, this house has expressed grave concerns about your attitude towards these values. there are no misunderstandings, as you call it. attacks on journalists of free media, pressure on the judiciary and your interference in the nomination of a prosecutor to the eppo are intolerable, so your claim to leadership on the rule of law agenda is not very credible. and it’s great to hear my colleague mr weber champion the rule of law, but i’m a bit tired of the epp lip service to the rule of law. both in parliament and in the commission your inaction is complicity. mr janša, the european parliament rule of law monitoring group will gladly take up your invitation to visit beautiful slovenia for a fact-finding mission in october. and i would also like to use this opportunity to give you a little reminder: in march, when we met online, the rule of law monitoring group of this house addressed a series of questions to you regarding the situation in slovenia, and unfortunately we have not received an answer. i realise that you’re very busy, so i use this opportunity for a little reminder. for your convenience i have brought a paper copy of the questions which i will leave in your trusted hands; i’m looking forward to a prompt answer.
the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people. we, of course, wholeheartedly support such integration. i personally believe that both the republic of albania and montenegro can be full members of the european union, as they say, immediately. what concerns me, however, is the situation in the republic of north macedonia. you know very well, and if you don't know, i will remind you that human rights are still being violated in this country: local macedonian citizens who identify themselves as bulgarians are persecuted by the police, harassed, fined for their beliefs. the language of hatred against bulgarians and everything bulgarian in north macedonia continues, the violation of rights continues. when we talk about pressure and when i see here that colleagues are trying to put pressure on bulgaria, is it not hypocritical to keep silent about the human rights violations, the abuse of the position of the government of north macedonia, the attempt to smear bulgaria in any way, including through paid publications in your mass media? yes, of course there should be enlargement, but the republic of north macedonia must condemn its communist past, it must stop the violence against bulgarian citizens and the violation of the human rights of bulgarians in macedonia.
madam chairman! there is no doubt that we slovenians believe and hope in the european union as we did a decade or more ago. public opinion shows that more than two thirds still hope and expect, i would say, even more from the european union than they did then. but i'm not sure that's the same as what you and the current administration are advocating, mr. president. why the actions of your government do not reflect that. to put it mildly, your actions and the public's expectations are diametrically opposed. unfortunately, the technical use of these chairs cannot be concealed. the future is not only determined by technological progress, but the key question is what values and ideas will underpin this technological progress. and this is and will be the essence of the debate on the future of the european union. the question, although not a dilemma for me, is do slovenian women and slovenians share your vision? public opinion again shows no vision regarding the rule of law, the attitude towards the media, media freedom, attacks on journalists and the depletion of the public press agency. i doubt that this vision is shared by most europeans. the presidency will therefore, in view of the foregoing and also of what has already been said in today's debate, unfortunately be rather empty in substance. unfortunately, the gap between expectations, between people's expectations and european values, on the one hand, and the starting point of your governments, is a huge gap that prevents progress on these non-technical but crucial issues, such as the rule of law, media freedom and, i could list more, from being made. as we have seen, the future of the eu is not based solely on technical technological solutions, but above all on the issues of values on which progress will be based. and here is where your government has a big, proven problem. appointing delegated prosecutors is just one story among them. talking about double standards and different understandings of the rule of law is also a reflection of this. in the eu, we have the court of justice of the european union, we have the court of human rights, we have the venice commission, which clearly, independently, with its judgments and its decisions, sets the normative framework for the rule of law. if the member states do not follow this, it is not a question of understanding the rule of law but of respecting the rule of law. with all due respect, mr president, i hope that for the good of slovenia and the eu, the presidency will make progress. i hope that it will be as small as possible, and i hope even more that you will not leave any ideological imprint on the eu and its future. i can't expect that for slovenia, i can only hope for democratic change.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the platforms also represent an opportunity for vulnerable groups to be integrated into the labour market. these are young people, the elderly, women, the long-term unemployed and immigrants. but technology does not prevent discrimination. the same applies to the use of artificial intelligence to schedule work. the dark side of unregulated is mainly unfair competition and the over-exploitation of people. in slovenia, too, people are being forced into self-employment, even during the pandemic, people are left without health and social insurance, protection at work, an inadequate working environment and opportunities for promotion or training. the report is therefore a good opportunity to help the commission to incorporate strong safeguards against the precarisation of work in the directive, and this is also the key message of my group. - thank you. - thank you.
madam president, mr high representative, if we are sincere about what we are claiming to be defending today, namely the european values of human rights, i think there is only one priority: solidarity. solidarity with the afghan women and men threatened by the taliban regime today. protect those seeking asylum in europe through a coordinated reception plan. protect those who will remain in afghanistan, most of them, by creating humanitarian corridors, but also by supporting the operators who will be there. but also the creation of a human rights monitoring mechanism to help in the decision to grant aid. and finally, to protect those who have already left and are being taken in by neighbouring countries. but these neighbouring countries will also have to guarantee international standards in terms of reception if they want to receive eu assistance.
madam president, mr high representative, we must indeed learn from this pointless withdrawal and from the mistakes made over the past 20 years, but above all from the european union's continuing to follow american policy. we need a common foreign policy, strategic autonomy. if we don't do foreign policy, others will do it for us. russia and china are ready. but now, above all, we need to make no more mistakes with the afghan people. we need to keep our word and evacuate all the international community collaborators, especially the women, searched house by house. we need and demand safe corridors so that all those who want to leave the country can do so on humanitarian visas and, above all, we must distribute aid internally, because the internally displaced persons number in the thousands. this must be the only operational and strategic dialogue with this government of terrorists wanted by the international community. mr high representative, negar masumi, an afghan policewoman, eight months pregnant, murdered this weekend in her home by the taliban government: this is the human rights dialogue that this government understands. we can't recognize them or whitewash them.
madam president! in a way, the afghan tragedy was actually inevitable. the speed of events may have been surprising, but despite all that has happened, we face a crucial decision: will we accept this experience as a moment of new knowledge or regret? i personally believe that this must be an opportunity for the common foreign and security policy to set out clearly the framework for relations with the taliban regime, at the heart of which must be our democratic values, human rights and, in particular, women's rights. we must not deviate from this, except for certain activities for the benefit of the afghan people. we also need a plan of action to support the insurgents and all those who will not accept taliban rule, and a clear plan of action - above all, a plan of assistance - to help all those who will leave afghanistan and take refuge in neighbouring countries. above all, it is crucial to recognise that the european union needs its own military capabilities. if afghanistan has highlighted anything, it has highlighted that the eu needs these capabilities, which will support european strategic autonomy, but at the same time will not compete with nato or threaten europe's euro-atlantic strategic alliance. these capabilities will contribute in particular to strengthening the european union, its global position, and on the other hand to strengthening nato and the north atlantic alliance.
mr president, the european union, in its quest for a leading role in the imperialist competition, is using the multi-tool of the migrant refugee and, as a hunter of specialised talent from third countries of its own strict preference, is promoting entry cards, fixed-term contracts, roaming in the name of mobility, so-called circular migration and other, that is, savage class exploitation to serve the profitability of european groups. this profitability is further enhanced by their penetration, thanks to eu subsidies, into geostrategically important third countries such as afghanistan and its neighbouring countries, under the pretext of preventing refugees. the persecuted, the victims of the imperialist interventions of the european union and its allies, the united states and nato, who reach the borders of the member states of the european union, face repression, frontex, returns, deportations, overcrowding, prisons in squalid conditions, drastic restrictions on their rights to asylum. in contrast to the decisions of the european union and the greek government, we defend the right of refugees and migrants to go to their countries of actual destination and to seek asylum, with full rights to housing, health, education and work.
mr president, a big thank you to javier for having managed to close this directive after a long time and many difficulties. five years. we have been so eager, as the european union, to agree to the revision of the blue card directive, even though a large number of businesses across the european union are struggling because of the great need for workers to enable them to continue to grow and expand. ladies and gentlemen, the economy needs workers from third countries and we cannot continue to run away from this reality. the far right tells us that this is some "socialist" or "leftist" idea. but it is not. i am a socialist, but i am also speaking on behalf of businesses that have labour gaps across the continent. europe is losing 74 billion euros a year because of the lack of legal pathways for the legal employment of these people. the same extreme right that says that legal workers from third countries should not come to europe and should stay in their country. they don't understand that they are not staying in their country, because they are still moving to the uk, america and canada and, meanwhile, the european union is losing talent, because someone else has simpler rules, because they recognize the qualifications of these people, who can generate 37 billion euros a year to our economy. as the socialist shadow rapporteur on parliament's initiative on legal immigration, policy and law, i thank javier for closing this report despite these populist forces i have spoken about. if we are to speak of socialist ideas, let us remember the rights of workers, including european workers, which are often ignored.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the eu has opposed the brainwashing of europe's best professionals by the us, as long as it is preparing to do the same. it would invite highly qualified third-country nationals to live and work freely within the eu member states. let's stop this sanctimonious behavior. i'm afraid he's actually using this device to speed up migration. we know that unemployment is particularly high in the southern member states of europe. why don't we educate our own youth, put them to work? why don't we take care of our own citizens? hungary is building the future on the young. we're doing everything we can to support their education and employment. university education is free, and young people under 25 who start their careers do not have to pay personal income tax because they are the important ones.
mr president, europe needs more skilled labour from the rest of the world. this requires faster and more streamlined routes than are currently available. it is a good and welcome step that the blue card is now being renewed. we know that until now the criteria for the blue card have been so high, both in terms of the level of training required of the skilled person, the level of pay and the employment relationship, that very few people have used the blue card and few even know that it exists. i hope that the blue card, now that it has been renewed, will work better and will be a really smooth, fast and efficient way of getting into the european union to work in the area of high-level components. we need to cut down on the red tape that goes with this. it has already been pointed out here that in many member states it currently takes months, even more than a year, to obtain a work permit. in this respect, the blue card should now be able to be accelerated by committing ourselves in the member states to ensuring that within a few weeks, those who have applied for a blue card will be able to enter the labour market. it would be an effective way of reforming access to employment.
mr president, commissioner johansson, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which i have the honour of chairing, has for years been denouncing and fighting the council's predominantly negative view of the migration issue, which prevents safe and legal pathways for the workers whom the european union needs and whose rights it has a duty to respect. after years of tense relations with the council, after three years of blockage, finally a step in the right direction! nothing less than a directive, a legislative act of the european parliament, which opens up a legal pathway to regular migration for skilled workers. good work, javier moreno and the negotiating team of our committee and the european parliament! this blue card directive not only extends the accessibility of this instrument to a greater number of people, including beneficiaries of international protection, but also extends rights, social protection and equal treatment not only to their workers but also to their families, and strengthens the mobility of these workers within the european union and to a second member state. i can only rejoice that this directive is to be adopted by an extraordinarily large majority. it is also very extraordinary that this large majority should finally strengthen a regular migration route to the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, according to official projections, the european union's workforce is expected to lose 40 million workers by 2070. to solve this demographic crisis, the union is making the mistake of wanting to resort to emigration when the incentive to natalist policies would be much better. the european blue card is the spearhead of this labour immigration. it was officially created in 2009 to bring the skilled workers we lack to europe. fortunately, european states have been reluctant to use it so far. rather than acknowledging its failure, the current draft revision attempts to give it a second life by lowering the qualification requirements for obtaining it and facilitating the family reunification of the workers concerned. the commission recognizes that the aim of this project is, and i quote, to standardize migration policy within the framework of the new european pact on migration. that is why i am firmly against it.
mr. president, i have to ask you... if there is a political lesson to be learned from the migration debate of the past six years, it is that there is no single european position on this issue. immigration has a significant impact on a country's culture and identity and can radically transform european societies, so what is needed here is not common european rules and stronger brussels jurisdiction, but the return of the right of decision to the member states each member state has the right to decide its own future. it should be made clear that mass immigration is not the only possible answer when population declines or labour market problems arise. there are other options, like giving priority to families and childbearing, like we do in hungary. finally, a moral point: if europe absorbs the most highly educated people from the poorest third countries, this will cause further economic backwardness there, and poverty will trigger new and new waves of migration to europe. this is not only immoral on the part of the european union, but also grossly irresponsible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after years of stalemate, we are now finalising the revision of the blue card directive, the instrument needed to make the european union attractive to highly qualified talents and workers. i am pleased to have contributed to this dossier as rapporteur for the s&d group in the empl committee. this instrument has been important to us since the last legislature, as a proposal for highly qualified workers, for universities and for companies that needed it. we have fought against the risk of social and wage dumping, and we have extended the scope of the directive to include seasonal workers and persons enjoying international protection. the outcome of the negotiations is, however, partially satisfactory, because we had to be more ambitious in creating a single european instrument to replace the national instruments - i am addressing the governments - but we have achieved a great deal, thanks to the work of our rapporteur javier moreno, whom i would like to thank, a useful instrument which we will relaunch in order to build a more united and more open europe to the world.
member of the commission. – mr president, the blue card will help migrants to get the jobs they want and help european companies to get the skills they need. you have made the eu blue card easier to get and more attractive to apply for. the blue card will help europe to catch up in the global race for talent, because it offers opportunities not only for a job and a career, but also for life in europe, our wonderful continent that this house represents. it’s a compromise, but a compromise that will change people’s lives and support our economies. the european blue card is also important for other reasons. it’s another important step forward on delivering the pact. you have shown that europe can agree on migration. you have shown that europe can compromise on migration, and we need that spirit of compromise. we must use this momentum to make progress on the new pact on migration and asylum. the agreement on the blue card shows that we can. again, my congratulations and my warm thanks. this is a great achievement.
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all those involved for their dedicated work over the past two and a half years. today's debate is the last formal step towards the implementation of a new, better financial instrument for pre-accession assistance ipa iii. in short, the new generation of ipas will strengthen the democratic, normative and socio-economic transformation of the candidate countries or potential candidates for membership of the european union. it will enable more streamlined, better targeted, more visible and sustainable support to partner countries on their path towards the european union as they face common challenges. the enlargement policy is inextricably linked to the convergence of the values of liberal democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law, from which we as the union must not depart. it is therefore good that the new ipa iii will specifically insist on this. the new, upgraded instrument emphasises strengthening conditionality relating to democracy, human rights and the rule of law, even providing for the suspension of aid in the event of a setback in these areas. the ipa iii will enhance strategic communication, combat disinformation and contribute to the cross-sectoral objectives of climate, environment, human rights and gender equality. ipa iii is a forward-looking instrument, taking into account european union initiatives and objectives such as the green plan. the allocation of funds shall be based on an efficiency-based approach and the principle of equitable distribution. this means that the aid will vary in scope and intensity according to the impact of the beneficiaries and at the same time the principle of equitable sharing will be applied to ensure that the scope and intensity of the funding takes into account not only the performance of the beneficiaries but also their actual needs and capacities. we want to avoid a disproportionately low level of aid to just a few. it's about ensuring the progress of all users. as a parliament, i think we can be satisfied with what has been achieved, especially in the context of the thematic priorities as the institutional role of the european parliament. during the negotiations, parliament ensured improved governance of the instrument in the context of the extended use of the delegated act procedure and enhanced geopolitical dialogue with the european commission. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes. our aim was to apply the lessons learned from the previous ipa ii instrument, and our motive was to provide assistance to those countries, or to their mostly pro-european-oriented citizens. although the prospect of european union membership has lost some of its transformative power, it is still the most effective incentive for comprehensive political, economic and social reforms in the western balkans that the european union has at its disposal. and for all those who wonder why we are spending so much money on preparing, i believe future members of the european union, i would like to make a few arguments. the enlargement policy is important because it enables the union to promote and insist on important reforms in the candidate countries. it's important because both sides benefit from the process. the data show that the member states have also benefited from previous enlargements of the european union in terms of economic growth and job creation. enlargement policy promotes socioeconomic cohesion even before accession, addressing some of the main concerns of eu citizens in terms of migration and social dumping. the eu's role in the region is also guaranteed by enlargement. at the moment, russia, turkey, the gulf states as well as china are competing with each other and with the european union for economic and political influence in the western balkans, all too often with interests that are completely different from ours. it is important because it helps to prevent and manage potential crises and conflicts, and perhaps the most important benefit is that it increases the credibility of the european union and sends a positive message for the prosperity and future of the union itself. the component of strengthening good neighbourly relations, which we have highlighted in parliament as one of the priorities, seems particularly important these days, for example the recent events in montenegro are the best indicator of how the slowdown in reforms and, for example, the politicization of religious events with external support can have a negative effect on the division of society and the security situation in the country. what i want to emphasize is that often in particularly polarized societies we have the highest support for the european union, because membership of the european union as a common denominator can have a cohesive factor. the ipa instrument is in fact financing of the union's long-term interests and core values. our financial investments must match our ambitions to be geopolitically relevant in the western balkans and turkey. over 14 billion euros is a significant amount of economic aid. but financial resources cannot fully replace a credible enlargement policy. i can fill it, but i can't replace it. north macedonia and albania have waited unduly long to start negotiations, even though they have done more than even some of the member states. kosovo has also long since fulfilled all the criteria for visa waiver. it's time to finally verify their efforts with concrete decisions.
rapporteur. – mr president, dear commissioner, this week is an important moment for the european enlargement policy. the adoption and signing of the new regulation on the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa iii), is a clear confirmation of the eu’s support to the european integration of our partners in south-east europe. over the last three years we have been preparing this new generation of funds and i would like to thank you, commissioner, the presidency of the council, all colleagues in parliament that were involved, and the staff of all three institutions for their great work and determination. ipa iii offers a historic budget of more than eur 14 billion for the next seven years. the biggest part is foreseen for the economic and investment plan that will create jobs, improve infrastructure, foster connectivity and boost the economy. with the financing of the western balkans guarantee facility, an additional eur 20 billion in investment can be expected. based on the experience from ipa and ipa ii, the design of modernised instruments provides the best assistance possible to the candidate and potential candidate countries. it features a performance-based approach that optimises the efficiency of the funded projects. the switch from country envelopes to the allocation of finances via thematic windows stimulates the beneficiaries to present achievable projects that will have a real impact on the reform track. i would also like to emphasise that the role of the european parliament in the programming, the governance and scrutiny of the instrument has significantly increased. for the first time, we will adopt a delegated act that sets our specific key objectives on which the programming of the instrument should be based. i am thinking about the rule of law, education, good neighbourly relations. we will have the chance to discuss the implementation of the instrument with the commission during the upcoming geostrategic dialogue. these achievements are a big step forward regarding democratic accountability. the european union is not safe if peace and security in our immediate neighbourhood is not guaranteed. the european union will continue to face organised criminal activities, disinformation campaigns and irregular migration flows as long as these issues remains unresolved in south-east europe. the european union is not complete without the accession of the western balkan countries. with the adoption of ipa iii, the eu has done its homework. we are ready to engage with the western balkans and turkey. the ball is now in the court of the authorities of the beneficiaries. they need to show the willingness and the courage to work on the necessary reforms and to comply with copenhagen criteria and european standards and values. we have to acknowledge it. this is a demanding challenge. political leaders stand for tough decisions and need to make political sacrifices. as a representative of the people of the youngest european member state, i can assure you that these efforts are wanted by the people, for the countries, for the region and for the european union. what the leaders in the partner states should understand is that making progress on their reform agenda starts with stabilising the internal situation in their country and finding a solution for pending problems. for example, bosnia and herzegovina urgently needs a breakthrough on the election law. montenegro faces rising tensions that have resulted in violent protests related to the freedom of belief two weeks ago. other countries see a strong decline in respect of human rights on the implementation of the rule of law. these are serious problems that can hijack the integration procedures. we should not allow financial support to countries that claim to be european-minded, but use the funding for other purposes. therefore, ipa iii contains a clear conditionality, including the possibility to suspend assistance in the case of severe political and democratic backsliding. today’s discussion on afghanistan dealt with the need for a lessons learned exercise to understand what happened in the last 20 years. fortunately, due to their transformative processes that started in 1999, the western balkans are still holding high hopes for the european integration. but, as i once said, the region is a rollercoaster and everything can change if we do not start the lessons learned exercise here as well. what went wrong? what can we improve? how can we help the people to resolve the unresolved issues? the priority is to prevent turbulence that might have a spill-over effect on eu citizens or on our peace and security. ipa iii is the tool, but more important is a high-level engagement to get the western balkans on the track to european accession. i would like to conclude by calling on the authorities of the beneficiaries to use this new positive momentum to prepare ambitious national strategies and to enhance their engagement with the european union by improving their ownership of the accession reforms.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the parliament, it is with great pleasure that i speak to this plenary debate. let me first of all thank the european parliament that we have the instrument for pre-accession for the next financial period 2021-2027 – the ipa iii, as it is known – on the agenda of today’s meeting with a view to adoption tomorrow. this paved the way for its final adoption after we reached a political agreement on 2 june. i would also like to thank the council over several presidencies, and of course the two co-rapporteurs, ms zovko and also mr picula, for their commitment, determination and their tireless efforts contributing to this final positive outcome for the entire region: thank you. together, we shaped an instrument that has a great potential and sends a very strong signal that the european union is committed to support the enlargement region. with ipa we are now equipped with an instrument provided with over eur 14 billion euros to provide assistance to the candidate countries and potential candidates in transforming their societies, legal systems and economies on the path to eu membership. this is a key moment. all leaders that i met have called for a swift kick-off of the pre-accession financial assistance: most importantly, the implementation of the economic and investment plan for the western balkans. the plan sets out a substantial investment package, mobilising some eur 30 billion for the region over the next seven years, amounting to one third of the gdp of the entire region. this is comprised of grant funding and is leveraged by the new western balkans guarantee facility. the ipa iii will provide the basis for this plan to happen and to contribute to the long-term recovery, boosting economic growth and convergence as well as supporting reforms needed to move forward in the eu path. what is new? the ipa iii increases steering and ensures better alignment with the eu’s priorities faster by having a more thematic focus. the ipa programming framework – our unique strategic document – will be based on needs as put forward by the region and ensure funding for the real needs for a more integrated region and one catching up much faster with the eu. due to its structure, the ipa iii will also establish more synergy, with a wide range of eu internal policy programmes to maximise impact on key priority sectors such as connectivity, energy, digitalisation, security, migration, research and development and the environment, together with climate action. the commission is fully committed to pursue the reforms on the rule of law, human rights, justice and values as a continued priority. such strong commitment was already fully reflected in the ipa iii proposal. the external action guarantee of up to eur 53.5 billion set up in the ndici-global europe, ensures that more investments and leverage of funds, crowding in private investments, will benefit the ipa iii partners. the new ipa iii will be clearly positioned in the context of the western balkans and enlargement strategies, which signals the commission’s support for the enlargement perspective of the region, and so it is from both co-legislators. the commission will also provide the much-needed financial assistance to turkey and will support actions, boosting people-to-people contacts, support to civil society and the post-covid socioeconomic recovery across the board, as well as key priorities of the eu. the ipa iii is definitely an investment in the future.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, this is an important day for the eu’s external action and opens a new chapter in our enlargement policy. the modernised instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa iii) paves the way for improved governance, for coherence and for transparency of our external funding in this crucial period of our enlargement policy. commissioner várhely, i do hope that ipa iii can improve our visibility as the european union in the region and bring a tangible impact on the ground through enhanced conditionality. allow me to thank and include all the involved staff, the negotiators of the council, commissioner olivér várhelyi and, of course, our co-rapporteurs, željana zovko and tonino picula, for their dedication and their tireless work, in particular during the occasionally rather challenging trilogues. together, we have achieved a very good outcome. this is a remarkable achievement. thank you so much.
on behalf of the renew group. - the president! the approval of ipa iii, or pre-accession assistance to the countries and peoples of the western balkans, amounting to over eur 14 billion, is a testament to the european union's commitment to enlargement in the western balkans and, in particular, to supporting the people of the region. although many speak of a crisis of people's attachment to the ideas of the european union, even support for enlargement in the region itself, this is more a reflection of a lack of visibility and even a deliberate concealment and denial of the role that european funds have in the development of the region and its rapprochement with the european union. ipa funds are also an opportunity for institutional strengthening in the region, in particular strengthening the independence and professionalism of institutions, an opportunity for democratic growth of countries and societies in the region, an opportunity for economic and social development of the region in line with the needs of the people and for achieving greater prosperity. they are also an opportunity to strengthen the rule of law, the fight against corruption and organised crime, the strengthening of the independent judiciary, the judiciary, the strengthening of the civil and non-governmental sectors and, last but not least, the independence of the media. ipa iii also offers opportunities for the environmental transformation of a region facing serious environmental challenges. but it is also an obligation to ensure that european union funds do not become the fuel for the proliferation of illiberal regimes in the region and the democratic backsliding we are witnessing in parts of the region. ipa iii therefore presents an opportunity, but also presents certain challenges and risks. it is up to the people of the region to take advantage of the funds, to use them for their own development and to bring them closer to the european union. it is our responsibility as members of parliament to help them along this path and to prevent them from straying from the objectives of the preaccession assistance programme, namely closer integration with the european union and membership of the european union. thank you so much.
in writing. the situation in the union is characterised mainly by social changes dictated by the planned industrial and economic transition, which is intended to balance european production and consumption, or to bring it into line with planetary boundaries. in this respect, the eu has taken a major step forward with the adoption of a climate law and a comprehensive climate, environment and energy legislative package, which is the pathway to the implementation of the paris agreement. however, we must be aware that this multi-layered and complex transition will in no way be possible without the social well-being of (all) europeans, especially those on the margins, vulnerable and socially excluded groups. it is right that the eu is pursuing radical tax reforms with the aim of ensuring social equality. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on health and safety at work, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on health and safety at work. i also welcome the additional efforts to employ and train young people. however, i cannot ignore the fact that much more attention (including in the form of concrete union legislative proposals) needs to be devoted to effectively addressing inequalities, fair working conditions and ensuring the labour rights of those most marginalised and precarious workers. without the well-being and prosperity of these individuals and groups, we cannot even imagine the transition to a green, digital and economically sustainable future (under any conditions).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in today's state of the union address, the president of the commission set a good starting point for today's debate. she focused on the young and the exorbitant price they had to pay during the pandemic and out of solidarity with the elderly. the fact is that in many countries, unfortunately also in slovenia, schools have been closed the longest and they were the first to close. so my question to the commission is what, besides a symbolic year, does it intend to offer to children and young people in concrete terms to make up for this lost time and access to education. or more specifically, what does he think he can do for young people from working-class families, where the risk of poverty and social exclusion has increased during the pandemic? while youth programs are a great opportunity, they're not for everyone. especially not to young people from disadvantaged and socially marginalized groups. they do not qualify for additional european funds because they, or their families, do not have the means to participate in them. it is therefore not enough to deal with the social consequences through cosmetic corrections and to shift social aspects to different strategies and funds, but social equity and social justice must be at the heart of recovery and resilience plans. it will not be enough to simply put a tick on the national plans because they mention the european pillar of social rights or merely mention it in the speech of the president of the commission, but it is essential in the opinion of the european parliament and my group that the social aspects become a mandatory and measurable part of the recovery and resilience mechanism.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, thank you for your speech. commissioner, colleagues and colleagues. i thank mr salibi for his in-depth report, which examines in detail the petitions before the european parliament, the international recommendations for the implementation of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, which is in fact the largest body of initiatives of this kind. i am also pleased that there is a high degree of agreement on this subject, but we differ on two points. first, as regards the interpretation of what it means that the european union is a party to the convention in addition to the member states. and secondly, about ambition in ensuring the rights of the disabled and thereby building an inclusive society. in fact, without such ambition, discrimination and the gap in the employment of people with disabilities will be even greater. we will need to do more to adapt social security systems to the needs of people with disabilities and to promote their mobility, both within and between countries. whereas i think it is entirely reasonable to expect that the disability rights strategy 2030 will include, in addition to the pan-european benefit card and the european union parking card , mutual recognition of the status of disabled persons between member states; the transition from institutional care to independent living in the community is certainly too slow, and i therefore call on the commission to prevent the misuse of european funds for deinstitutionalization in contravention of the convention. but we certainly must start with ourselves. we must therefore ensure the visibility and accessibility of the petition mechanism in the european parliament. we need to do more to help and support petitioning and to introduce the possibility of petitioning in national sign languages, because the slovenian example of such a sign language being written into the constitution shows the symbolic real meaning. finally, i should like to stress that the european parliament's association with the global 'we the fifteen' movement, to which i and my colleagues have also invited the president of the european parliament, could also contribute to this.
in writing. recently, europe has seen a substantial increase in energy prices. the causes are diverse, but include existing and forecast eu actions in the field of green transition and climate goals. for example, the commission also envisaged, in the so-called 'fit for 55' legislative package of july, the pricing of carbon from road transport and building heating. the increase in energy prices in these two sectors will primarily affect the most vulnerable sections of the population and increase the risk of energy poverty. this may constitute a clear threat to human rights, in particular the right to an adequate standard of living. apart from the rents already so high in some eu countries - including slovenia - it is hard to imagine that the most vulnerable groups will be able to bear this financial burden as heating prices rise. i therefore expect eu decision-makers, and in particular the member states, to ensure that, through legislative proposals such as the social climate fund and other measures, all those most affected are adequately and, above all, timely compensated. the eu urgently needs an effective and timely response to current and future challenges that are affecting the increased risk of energy poverty.
chairman, thank you for your time. ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, the rapporteur, the commissioner. one of the few positive aspects of this crisis was the political decision to put people before the economy. indicators such as gross domestic product and economic growth are insufficient. for a green and digital transition and a more social european union, we need to take into account sustainable welfare and socio-ecological progress. therefore, in line with the commitments of the port, concrete reforms of the european semester, the budgetary criteria and the social aspects of recovery and resilience are also necessary. the commission has also been working on a number of other initiatives, including the establishment of a european data protection supervisor, the establishment of a european data protection board and the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. i therefore regret and apologise that the negotiation of these important issues for european citizens has been held hostage to the unwise and disrespectful communication of the slovenian prime minister.
in writing. the debate on the crisis of the rule of law in poland and the primacy of eu law follows the judgment of the polish constitutional court on the incompatibility of specific articles of the eu treaty with the polish constitution, but in reality it is the result of long-standing attempts to subordinate the polish judiciary to the executive branch and to discipline judges who take decisions contrary to the expectations of the ruling policy and refuse to participate in the legalization of illegal actions of the authorities. the judgment in question demonstrates how damaging and difficult to remedy is the indecisiveness and delay in taking action against member state governments which undermine the fundamental european values and primacy of law and the authority of the court of justice of the eu in interpreting them. the commission and council also delayed and failed to act on the basis of the measures available under the treaties to protect the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary in poland, and judgment k 3/21 was adopted by the illegitimate constitutional tribunal, at the invitation of the president of the same government, which stands for measures that have brought poland into a crisis of the rule of law and incompatible with the fundamental values of the eu. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the polish authorities have not yet taken any action to address the situation of the rule of law in poland.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, the minister, the commissioner. the pandemic was meant to prove to us all that economics can serve people. if we want to keep humanity on this planet, we need to have the same relationship between the economy and the environment. the key here is the human right to a healthy environment. clear recognition of this right in international, european and national law can ensure that the costs of the green transition are not borne solely by people, in particular the most vulnerable communities and groups, and future generations. the european union and individual member states have the opportunity to position themselves geopolitically, but also the duty, due to their historical heritage, to lead by example in the process of modifying this right. in this respect, international organisations and the soft law they create, such as the united nations and the council of europe, can help build the legal awareness that is essential for the adoption of legal commitments. however, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union is crucial to us, and it must become the unquestioned legal basis for the judgments of the court of justice of the eu when the human right to a healthy environment is violated.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the stability of the western balkans region is - as we all know - in the eu's security, geopolitical and economic interest. the commission's country reports published this week show that these countries have made progress in many areas towards eu membership despite difficulties. yet there is no progress with a specific date for enlargement, only promises of enlargement from the union. the negative impact of this is already being felt in the western balkans. there is a great deal of disappointment in the region and this western balkans summit was not enough to compensate. if the union does not take concrete action soon, we risk losing the confidence of these states in the member states and third countries will further increase their influence in the region. we hungarians are actively involved in maintaining stability in the region, hungary has just taken over the command of kfor. we strongly support the early admission of serbia and montenegro, the opening of negotiations with albania and north macedonia and visa liberalisation. the western balkans are an integral part of europe, surrounded on all sides by the eu, and enlargement is urgently needed.
mr minister, commissioner, my bulgarian colleagues and i, as well as the bulgarian state, have always supported the integration of the western balkans. it is in our interest, in the european interest. but european integration is a two-way process, and we must be ready, and the western balkan countries must do their utmost to overcome all that has divided them and divided us in the past. mr. minister, in the remaining months of your presidency, may you make the best of the things that some of your colleagues have said. visas for kosovo, this has to be really stopped, this discrimination against the citizens of kosovo. the opening of negotiations. yes, when we can't really do the maximum we want, at least with albania we can start negotiations. i cannot understand why, if 27 member states are saying 'yes' to the opening of negotiations, why not at least start with albania, to give a little positive signal to something good happening in the balkans? and to make every effort to overcome the last obstacles in terms of good neighbourliness, to find a mutually acceptable roadmap that will enter the negotiation framework as a guarantee that the good neighbourly agreement with bulgaria and all things related to the basic human rights of bulgarians, who are discriminated against extremely severely, i regret to say this, in the republic of north macedonia, will be implemented. the legacy of communism, as strange as it may be to some of my colleagues, but i repeat for the second time, the legacy of communism and the dictatorship of tito (although tito broke with stalin, that does not mean he is some kind of good democrat) have no place in the european union. this is not a bilateral dispute, but a fundamental human rights issue that must be overcome on the path of european integration. i would like to see all the citizens of the western balkans become european citizens as soon as possible. it is in our best interest, but this path must overcome the past and communism. communism is not a good thing.
(start of speech with microphone off) ... ardent supporter of enlargement, we must admit that we do not really have a single vision of enlargement in the european union. on the one hand, there is the part of the member states which does not support enlargement or has reservations about it for internal political reasons, also caused by the lack of respect for the rule of law of the member states' labour law and by the abuse of the migration issue. on the other hand, there are those who have problems with the rule of law and use enlargement as a hostage or as a means of pressure and deepening the rift or division within the european union. then there are the western balkan leaders who use enlargement for domestic political needs when necessary, either to delay reforms on the one hand or to use it to consolidate their political power when it suits them, of course. when they don't like it, of course, they're against the expansion themselves. but there are also people - eu citizens and people from the western balkans. on the one hand, the debate on the rule of law, and particularly the lack of respect for the rule of law in the european union, is causing eu citizens to lose faith in the eu itself. on the other hand, there are people in the region who, because of all that is happening, and especially the european commission's uncritical attitude to the events in the region, are slowly losing confidence in the european union. so perhaps now is the time for a declaration and also for political decisions, not in this house but above all in the eu council, which will give us all, those in the eu as well as those in the western balkans, at least a little bit of pure wine and clarify what the future of the so-called enlargement process really is.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president my respected colleagues, my esteemed colleagues, commissioner. i welcome today's debate because it allows us to recognise that civil society and ngos are an indispensable part of a democratic society. they put the human person and the wider social good at the centre, regardless of nationality or any other affiliation, and are therefore the key to social solidarity and, of course, social cohesion. my experience both in working within the slovenian red cross and in contact with other ngos and humanitarian organisations tells me that these organisations make an outstanding contribution to social welfare, which is underestimated. the burden they have taken on from all these crises facing the european union is enormous. starting with the financial crisis of 2008, when people's expectations of food being shared were such that these workers, who volunteered, had to be protected because the state and the european union failed to respond adequately to these challenges. the same applies in the refugee and migrant crisis or when faced with refugees and migrants, from 2015 onwards, when in fact this sector takes on a large part of the care of the care and integration of migrants. so these philanthropic organizations, because they're closer to the local communities, because they're represented in all the local communities, they're able to respond to things like the current covid-19 pandemic. they are sensitive to the needs and concerns of people that would otherwise be overlooked by the state or by the institutions, and they are able to recognise these needs and concerns and respond to them in an appropriate manner. i would therefore like to express my sincere thanks to them, both on my own behalf and on behalf of the socialist and democratic group to which i belong, for all the work they have done so far and for all the work they will do in the future. this work is based on the solidarity aspect of european values, and in particular on the fact that this crisis and future crises will have economic, social and environmental consequences. and these organizations know how to respond. of course, the cross-border and global aspects of these challenges must also be taken into account. we're going to have two transitions: green and digital. and so, in a short-term vision, which is more or less based on economic growth, as in a long-term vision, which seeks to go beyond this understanding, they help to preserve the european development model. without cooperation with these organisations, there is no possibility, therefore, of developing adequately the european development and economic model, which will of course reach people, both within the european union itself and around the world. civil society, especially its humanitarian component, has to do this, and this is a very important issue, and what we have to keep in mind is that it must not become a substitute for the welfare state or the future social-ecological state. there is no way that this part of the world can be a substitute for this country. this is something that both the state and the european institutions have to take care of. nor should it become a substitute for social policies - i would say, the part that is an integral part of this sector, and that is unpaid work in the form of volunteering or unpaid care work within households or families. those two things can't happen. but what can and should be understood about this sector, that is civil society, is that it is complementary to what europe is trying to do in itself and what it is trying to do in the world. this is also demonstrated, on the one hand, by a study by the organisation for economic cooperation and development, which states that low- and middle-income countries are in fact dependent on european grants and contributions from european humanitarian and civil society organisations for the functioning of their public health, education, gender equality and, in general, the implementation of the 2030 agenda. we certainly do not have a strong european civil society at the moment, nor are we exploiting the full potential of this civil society. nonprofit organizations and associations as well as non-governmental organizations are very different, but they are similar in their functioning. but they have no common rules, no common substance, or in other words, in each country they encounter different legal rules, different financial requirements and different administrative procedures, and if they try to operate anywhere else, they have to literally repeat the procedures again. this in many ways makes cross-border action impossible, this fragmentation of rules makes cross-border action impossible, and of course the non-recognition of status also makes it impossible. and as a result, they cannot properly integrate to face european challenges. so the absence of european rules for non-profit organisations on taxation, on establishment is certainly contrary to the four freedoms that we know in the european union. it prevents transparency in business and, in fact, prevents the exploitation of any contribution they could make to both sustainable development and social welfare. this is also demonstrated by a study by the european parliament's research service, which identifies many areas where this is not the case, such as education, culture, health, social protection, research, development cooperation, humanitarian aid, social cohesion, in other words, many areas where the potential is not being exploited. i therefore welcome the initiative of the european parliament and also the legislative report prepared by the committee on legal affairs, which bases its work on the experience of 30 years of failed regulation in this area on the one hand, and on the other hand, in dialogue with civil society, which is essential. we can't regulate the sector without considering civil society. now, this debate and this political support for this report, this legal framework, should also be an incentive for the european commission to build a strong european civil society, which will be the defender of democracy and european values everywhere, in all countries, even where we have problems, and that is why this is very important.
the president, the honourable commissioner, my colleagues, my colleagues! the european social charter sets us three challenges: ensuring the free movement of people, a social union and a digital transformation that protects workers' rights and ensures fair mobility. the common market exists for everyone but not for people, because the basic responsibility for social security lies with the member states and their different social security systems, which do not communicate with each other, leading to violations of workers' rights and unfair competition. it doesn't even matter what we call it. whether we call it the european social security card or the european social security number. but it is important who and how it protects, because the past cases of abused workers from the western balkans being sent through slovenia show that all mobile workers on the eu market, including those from third countries, would need such a card. the acceptance of digital covid certificates from third countries proves to us that this can be introduced. this can be introduced if there is the political will.
madam president, as eu countries roll out covid—19 booster vaccines, and new treatments are approved, millions still have no access to affordable vaccines and treatments. while over 61% of european populations have been vaccinated, less than 7% of people in low—income countries have received their first dose. central to this stark inequality are intellectual property monopolies, which allow big pharma to control vaccine production, distribution and critically, price. one year after a trips waiver was proposed, the eu remains a key impediment. i say, step up and support the finalisation of the trips waiver at next year’s ministerial council. meaningless ‘declarations’ leave millions without effective vaccines and treatments. the cost of inaction is measured in human lives. people all over europe are calling for eu governments to put people’s health before corporate profits. this includes the quarter million supporters of the ‘no profit on pandemic’ citizens’ initiative, which i urged everyone to sign.
madam president, vice-president dombrovskis, i would like to refer to the wto negotiations on fisheries subsidies. the geneva agreement must be fair and protect the interests of the union and its highly regulated and sustainable fishing fleet. the people's group calls on the commission to stand firm and to defend the tax exemptions for fish oil provided for in directive 2003/96. the end of subsidised diesel would also be particularly damaging for the small-scale fleet. i would point out that there is a very important sector of the fleet of spain, my country, which operates in the waters of the south atlantic, near the falkland islands. these waters are not covered by a regional fisheries management organisation, given the controversy between argentina and the united kingdom. i am very concerned that this circumstance, which is totally outside the control of the fleet, will harm this fleet which operates in these waters and, moreover, does so in a regulated manner and in accordance with european standards. vice-president dombrovskis, we must protect the european fleet wherever it may be fishing. i ask you not to give in on this point.
madam president, i am glad to see that the 12th ministerial conference of the wto will finally take place after postponement due to the pandemic. we need to keep the world together and trade is a good motivation. the eu remains committed to the multilateralism and open trade with rules. important talks will be held in geneva next week and i have three points to raise. first, the worlds need to be vaccinated and the trade and health initiative needs to fly. second, the wto established before the climate change and before the digitalisation needs to be reformed to address these important questions. it is imperative that wto trade rules help to combat climate change and promote the sustainable development goals (sdgs). third, the wto needs to put emphasis on digitalisation. as the standing rapporteur for the parliament on e-commerce, i hope that the plurilateral negotiations between 86 wto member countries will advance, to facilitate the uptake of the technological innovations but to prevent forced technology transfers, to facilitate data transfers but in a way that guarantees sufficient data privacy protection. we have a good resolution from the committee. good luck for the next week.
madam president, a question that i’m often asked is how and whether we can balance and reconcile our ambitions around the environment and our trade priorities. how can we create jobs and prosperity and avoid environmental degradation and loss of biodiversity? in our resolution, we try to establish a very clear link between the multilateral trading system, on the one hand, and achieving the sustainable development goals. and in mc12 we have an opportunity to demonstrate to the public that link, that very clear link and in that way to restore credibility to the multilateral trading system. in particular, we draw attention to sdg 14, target 6, which calls for an end to harmful fishing subsidies, not by 2030, like all of the other sustainable development goals, but by 2020, underlining the high stakes and the urgency. so i implore all of those who are charged with this difficult task to finish the job and i applaud the eu in its efforts. we have this one opportunity to end a very tough year with some proof that trade and environment can coexist.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, well first of all thank you for today’s debate. the european union remains firmly attached to the rules—based multilateral system and we have invested huge efforts into strengthening the wto. i fully share your observation that our policies and instruments must contribute to improving sustainability standards worldwide, including in more sustainable agricultural practices. as regards mc12, breakthroughs are still possible at mc12 with political will and common sense of urgency. so let me assure you that the eu will not be found wanting in this respect. a balanced package of negotiated outcomes is achievable but many parties need to increase realism and willingness to compromise. we must strive to set the wto on the reform path that will allow it to tackle the challenges of the 21st century. and from the eu side, we will continue to engage constructively.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me begin by underlining the council’s long-standing and unequivocal commitment to bosnia and herzegovina’s eu perspective as a single, united and sovereign country. the member states share the concern about the political situation in bosnia and herzegovina, which was discussed at the foreign affairs council on 15 november. the council deeply regrets the prolonged political crisis in the country and condemns the blockage of the state institutions. we urge all of bosnia and herzegovina’s political leaders to renounce provocative and divisive rhetoric and actions, including questioning the territorial integrity of the country. the recent blockage of state institutions is unacceptable. citizens of bosnia and herzegovina are worried about the political situation. they are concerned about the problems that are vital for their lives. the continued political crisis and the persistent lack of dialogue is also taking attention away from much—needed reforms. bosnia and herzegovina’s political leaders need to overcome the stalemate as a matter of priority and return the focus to joint efforts to move forward on reforms, which will enable the country to advance on its eu path. i refer here to the 14 key priorities identified in the commission’s opinion on bosnia and herzegovina’s application for eu membership, and endorsed by the council in 2019. in particular, we expect bosnia and herzegovina to ensure that the next election will be conducted in line with european standards by implementing organization for security and co-operation in europe (osce) and office for democratic institutions and human rights (odihr) and relevant venice commission recommendations, and by ensuring transparency of political-party financing. taking into account the institutional mechanisms set up by the dayton peace agreement, bosnia and herzegovina needs to undertake further constitutional and electoral reforms to ensure quality, and equality and non-discrimination of its citizens. the council regrets that bosnia and herzegovina’s constitution remains non-compliant with the european convention on human rights, as per the ruling by the european court of human rights in the sejdić, finci and related cases. this needs to be addressed and the council underlines that a number of constitutional court decisions have yet to be fully enforced. the council calls for an inclusive process of electoral reform that would eliminate all forms of inequality and discrimination in the electoral process. this should be done through genuine dialogue and in line with european standards. in this regard, the council underlines that no legislative or political steps should be taken by political actors in bosnia and herzegovina which would make the implementation of the sejdić, finci and related european court of human rights rulings more challenging. let me underline that we urge bosnia and herzegovina to also work with determination on implementation of the other key priorities, in particular towards strengthening the rule of law and the independence and integrity of the judiciary, as well as fighting corruption and organised crime. as regards the eu common foreign and security policy, we regret the sharp decline in bosnia and herzegovina’s alignment, and we urge the country to reverse this negative trend. finally, we welcome the recent extension of the mandate of the operation eufor althea, which continues to support the authorities in bosnia and herzegovina in maintaining a safe and secure environment for all citizens.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the commission is closely following the situation in bosnia and herzegovina, which is a concern. commissioner várhelyi is actually travelling there tomorrow morning for political dialogue to help de-escalate tensions and to explain how to relaunch the country’s european agenda. let me reiterate our unequivocal commitment to bosnia and herzegovina’s eu perspective as a single, united and a sovereign country. the recently adopted united nations security council regulation renewing the executive mandate of operation eufor althea confirms the eu’s unwavering commitment to support bosnia and herzegovina in maintaining a safe and secure environment. the prolonged political crisis has held back progress on reforms in 2021. we are committed to support the country’s leaders, they’re taking steps to de-escalate, resume dialogue and address the substance of issues that are fuelling tensions. all political parties should return to state institutions and make sure they function smoothly. this is essential for bosnia and herzegovina to fully benefit from eu programmes and funds, including our economic investment plan, at a delicate moment where the socio-economic recovery after the pandemic is at stake. the people of bosnia and herzegovina continue to be concerned about their elected leaders’ lack of action in addressing problems that are vital for their daily life. rampant corruption, major weaknesses in the judicial system, mass unemployment, poor health services or young people leaving the country to find a better life elsewhere. political leaders should work together to address these issues rapidly. we reiterate the eu support for resuming constructive dialogue and for respecting and protecting state institutions. political leaders should work together to pursue the priorities in fulfilling the 14 key priorities from the commission opinion in line with the interests of all citizens of bosnia and herzegovina to progress towards eu membership. the eu has been, and will continue to be, active in facilitating dialogue via the eu delegation, the eu special representative office, the eu external action service mandated by the hr/vp. we have also worked closely with the us, including in advancing talks for constitutional and electoral reforms, and on discussing the issues behind the current political stalemate. we will continue our efforts to promote dialogue and refocus on reforms that will allow bosnia and herzegovina to advance on its path towards eu membership. the eu will continue to closely follow the situation in bosnia and herzegovina and to help parties progress in line with eu principles and values. in the present context, it’s vital to ensure that eu unity and consistent messaging of all parties to bosnia and herzegovina from all eu institutions – commission, council and parliament. we reconfirm our commitment to the european perspective of bosnia and herzegovina, as president von der leyen said during her visit in september. we hope that all parties will quickly start working together to achieve this objective. it is only by carrying out substantial reforms that bosnia and herzegovina will make progress on its path towards eu accession.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the european union has always laid stress on the european perspective of all the western balkan countries, including bosnia—herzegovina. the stability of all of these countries is of vital importance for the citizens in this region, but also for the european union. in order to secure peace and stability the three communities have to be represented in a fair way. this is why changes in the electoral law are in high demand to provide the croats in bosnia—herzegovina with the opportunity to be on an equal footing in terms of representations with the other two communities. however, all three communities have to come together and be ready to compromise in order for a sustainable solution to be found, not only for the reform of the electoral law, but also for all other important topics related to the security and social perspective of the citizens of this country. the ppe group has always been on the most supportive front for the western balkan states in their part of the european integration. our commitment and engagement with our partners in the region have remained unchanged. we should give again a strong, united signal in support of bosnia—herzegovina and its european future, and by european future must be understood full membership in the european union. very destructive are the signals coming from the president of republika srpska, mr dodik, who announced in october plans to withdraw from many common institutions of bosnia—herzegovina. this gave a very wrong signal and could lead again to conflict and ethnic violence. and at the end, please allow me to inform you about a terrible accident which happened last night on the territory in bulgaria, leading to the death of 45 citizens of the republic of north macedonia, which is the worst accident in the history of my country and my condolences go to the families of all the victims in this terrible accident. prime minister zaev and the foreign minister in sofia will investigate together with the bulgarian authorities this terrible situation.
on behalf of the renew group. - madam president! why today's debate on bosnia is important and why we need to send a very clear message to bosnia and especially to mr. dodik and his friends. because what's happening is not just affecting the region, but because it's happening in our immediate neighborhood. the blockade of institutions and the threat of secession of republika srpska not only threaten peace and stability in bosnia and the region, but directly threaten the european union and our interests. we must not and cannot allow bosnia to be trapped again in the madness of nationalist politics and division. we therefore urgently need decisive and united action by the european union and our euro-atlantic friends to prevent bosnia and the region from slipping into a new round of nationalist madness, including, if necessary, sanctions against all those who support the policy of division. we must achieve the unblocking of the institutions of bosnia, which must become operational and become a forum for urgent reforms, including changes to electoral legislation and constitutional amendments, in line with the decisions of the european court of human rights, the venice commission and the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina. the european future of bosnia is not in the hands of the european parliamentarians or mr dodik and his friends, but in the hands of the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina, who, by their choice in elections and active citizenship, must put bosnia on the european path and send politicians like mr dodik to the dustbin of history.
in writing. the energy union is a guarantor of regional stability. this depends on external (geopolitical context and eu relations with energy superpowers) and internal factors (energy equity). to maintain this balance, the union must, first, develop a prudent foreign policy towards its neighbour russia, in particular in view of the critical situation that threatens peace and security in ukraine. second, in the context of the green transition, the union must ensure the resilience of european society, so that it is able to withstand the transformation of the economy based on sustainable development and compliance with environmental and climate objectives. the current situation in the energy market is an excellent 'polygon' for dealing with such phenomena in the further process of the green transformation. i also welcome the commission's immediate reaction, which has published a set of different short and medium-term tools to address these challenges, with a large part of the responsibility and competence at member state level. to achieve a green breakthrough and prevent energy poverty, we need not only ambitious strategies but also competent actors within the energy sector who are able to make this transition happen. this is why i would like to express my concern about the current developments in slovenian politics, where it seems that the transition to a zero-carbon economy can only be a letter on paper due to unwise staffing in state-owned enterprises that are actually capable of implementing the union's climate and environmental commitments and objectives.
mr president, the left in this house is cooking from the same recipe all over again, isn’t it? the recipe is the following: take a successful, conservative right-wing government, come up with unfounded political attacks, disguise them as legal issues, and then put it up on the agenda here as a rule-of-law debate. we’ve seen this before: mostly it’s been about hungary and poland, now it is slovenia. but let’s be clear: your real problem is that in these countries the liberal mainstream does not have hegemony. people are able to speak their minds without taboos, and they can have real debates without political correctness. it is ridiculous how you criticise media freedom in these countries, but you forget to mention how media looks like in most of your countries now – like in germany, for instance, where all the liberal views are tolerated and everything else is censored. luckily it does not matter how many fake fact-finding missions you organise to these countries, how many debates, resolutions or sanctions you push for here. it will always be and remain the free people of these countries to decide about their governments, and not you.
mr president, to be honest i wasn’t sure about the necessity of this debate on the late nomination of the eppo prosecutors today, but i have to admit, the colleagues who insisted on it do have impeccable timing, because this morning the two slovenian prosecutors were indeed appointed by the college of the eppo and the eppo is now finally fully operational. so this debate comes at the right moment to send our congratulations to these prosecutors, to the eppo, and to the slovenian government for doing the necessary, for doing exactly what this house has always called for. just like this parliament has always called on the slovenian government to ensure the proper functioning of the slovenian press agency, which in the meantime has also signed a new contract securing normal funding, and we count on all parties to solve any outstanding issues for the future. these two issues have featured prominently in our debates on slovenia and i’m happy today that we can at least establish that both issues are addressed. that leaves us with the wider debate on the rule of law. this is a crucial debate because without rule of law, ultimately, democracy ceases to exist and it is up to all of us, whether at the european or the national level, to wherever and whenever it is under attack, defend the rule of law in a fair, objective and indiscriminate way. because when we stop being objective about the rule of law and we start using it for political purposes, we ourselves contribute to the erosion of it. looking at the recent developments also in this house, there is also reason for concern. reports were leaked to the slovenian press before shared with members. the office of the slovenian opposition leader edits reports of missions that she didn’t participate in. is that really the way we want to work on the rule of law? sometimes a good look in the mirror is necessary so what we ask of the slovenian government in order to further improve the rule of law situation in the country based on the recommendations also by the commission, is what we should ask of ourselves as well.
mr president, members of the house, commissioner, minister! this is the second time today that i have spoken in this building about the breakdown of democracy in slovenia. in march, we discussed political interference in the free press. the fact that we are talking about slovenia for the second time confirms that something is seriously wrong in the country and i regret it. i don't want this debate to sound like a criticism of slovenia, of its people. the reason for these discussions is the criticism of the slovenian government led by janez janša. european politics have been roiled by the prime minister's provocations. the last time he rejected a delegation from the european parliament and later engaged in a twitter battle with some of them. the reactions were indignant, the european reactions were indignant at the unacceptable financial depletion of the slovenian press agency and the delay in the appointment of two european delegated prosecutors. i welcome the fact that the european institutions have insisted that the slovenian government comply with its legal obligations. today we have a delegated prosecutor from slovenia, i want them to be able to handle the cases without complaints of bias and without attempts by the slovenian government, which seems to be on the table today, to discredit them or even recall them, which is impossible. the slovak government did not agree to their appointment for a year. the commission has also proposed that the council of ministers adopt a new law on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. monitoring countries where the state of democracy is worrying is crucial to safeguard our common values, human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, human rights. and it's up to us, colleagues, to remain true to our shared values and always take action when those values are violated, because that's how we protect people.
mr. president, please! if you criticize, attacks follow. if there is no subjugation, then destruction follows. if you're not with this government, you need to leave. if you're not one of them, just be careful. yes, i'm talking about the current situation in slovenia. however, in the case of poland and hungary, we could see that such a departure from democratic norms goes beyond the national framework and becomes a problem for the union. hold on, the current slovenian government recently caved in to the pressure. they released the sta funding after almost a year of manipulation. they have learned the names of the european delegated prosecutor after more than a year of legal farce. but don't let that fool you. this whole problem is not solved, we don't know what will happen next year, and the government, with its decisions on the interim and even some new legislative proposals, is still making fun of independent institutions. so this relaxation is just an increase in pressure elsewhere. the prosecution, the judiciary, the police, the media, the ngos, the independent regulatory agencies are trying to subdue, silence, smear. by any means necessary. behind the alleged pluralism lies the destruction of institutions, behind the conspiracy theories about the communists lies clientelism and corruption. this is not a defense of traditional values. that's their negation. because of the rich democratic traditions and the integrity of individuals and individuals, our institutions have survived to this day. but how much longer? where are the decisive concrete responses? when will you learn that what happens in one member state affects the whole union?
mr. president, please! the european commission has found that slovenia has no rule of law problems as the institutions are functioning. however, the left wing of this parliament, especially the slovenian colleagues, could not agree with this position, and this working group was created within the framework of libe, which visited slovenia and, of course, prepared a report that we will have to talk about, because it was contaminated from the very beginning. but it's true, slovenia has certain problems with the rule of law. only 25 percent of citizens trust, say, the judiciary, have problems with the media, not with media freedom, but with non-transparent ownership, concentration of media ownership, asymmetry, 90 percent of media is left-wing, left-oriented, and people, of course, are not informed in a qualitative and objective way in this way. anyone who would tackle the rule of law in slovenia would have to tackle not the tweets of the prime minister, but above all some corruption networks that partly originate from the previous regime and partly are new and actually control certain social subsystems. earlier, we heard from colleague tomc that one such network, which has influence in the banking industry, could easily launder almost two billion us dollars of dirty money from the iranian regime, and nothing happens. so i think this debate has some political purpose to put the slovenian government on a pranger and with it slovenia. i hope there's not gonna be any major repercussions from this. perhaps the message, the main message of this debate, is that they might get her off the hook when (as soon as i will) there is another government in slovenia.
mr castaldo, commissioner for justice, mr minister, this is the second time that this european parliament has debated the situation of fundamental rights and the rule of law and the situation of the european public prosecutor's office in slovenia. i am not happy, believe me, as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs of this european parliament. on the contrary, i am particularly concerned because slovenia holds the presidency of the european union this semester - the rotating presidency - and you, mr minister, do not represent slovenia in this debate, but the council. but slovenia is certainly in a position to do so and, in my view, can and should make a difference to those member states which are unfortunately commonplace in the debates on the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights - hungary and poland - by first affirming and accepting the primacy of european law, which enshrines the values of respect for pluralism and the protection of minorities as common values of the european union in article 2 of the treaty on european union, and which also sets out as a very clear mandate the obedience and compliance with the judgments of the courts of justice when they apply european law, and of course imposes the duty of loyal cooperation with the european public prosecutor's office. we therefore regret the five-month delay and welcome the fact that the two slovenian national prosecutors are finally being integrated into the structure of the european public prosecutor's office so that they can provide the best possible service. but you too, mr minister, are ready to send a message to your prime minister, janez janša, and the message is clear: when the european parliament sends an official delegation to a member state of the european union, that delegation is not an alien, it is not foreign interference, no: it is representing the european citizenship of two million slovenian citizens.
mr. president, please! the current government, fearing the mechanism of conditioning access to european funds, after having practically destroyed the sta as a public information service, only paid part of the planned funds and temporarily appointed a delegated prosecutor, who, according to the proposed amendments to the law, will seemingly recall. this gives the impression that slovenia is doing just fine. but i'm afraid it's all about the impression. the policy of systematically and deliberately weakening key public institutions with the aim of subordinating them or at least silencing them continues. how else can we explain the fact that a few months before the elections, the programming of the public television news program is necessarily changed, that the ruling coalition amends the law on the police, which allows the minister to appoint over a hundred senior police personnel to his own taste? the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be given the power to impose sanctions on the member states for the use of the power of judicial review. and that's what the government does, by the way, whose minister of justice is under investigation. so, in short, the dogs bark, but the caravan moves on.
in writing. i welcome the decision of the parliament and the council on the european year of youth 2022, whereby the eu seeks to strengthen its own efforts and those of the member states, together with regional and local administrations and representatives of civil society, for the long-term empowerment of young people. this union policy objective is important as young people are a particularly vulnerable group, especially in the context of the current pandemic. any additional effort to ensure their well-being is therefore more than welcome. i would just like to remind you that (at least in the early part of the pandemic) many countries closed schools first and opened them last in response to the pandemic. internships and apprenticeships were disallowed. the young were the first to lose (the first) job opportunities. last but not least, they were deprived of leisure activities and social life. all of this has had severe economic, and above all social and psychological consequences for them. i would therefore like the european year of youth to go beyond being a mere letter on paper and to encourage member states to develop concrete policies and initiatives that will make it possible to invest in young people, with a focus on vulnerable groups and the elimination of inequalities. as i have stressed on other occasions, aligning national recovery and resilience plans with the objectives of the enhanced youth guarantee is also an appropriate approach in this regard.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. the issue of fighting organised crime is a matter closely linked to corruption. both in the western balkans and with the rule of law. the fight against corruption and organised crime in the western balkans will be more successful only if we have an independent judiciary and prosecutors there. and reform of both must become the focal point of european policy towards the region. an independent judiciary will be the basis not only for a successful fight against corruption and organised crime, but also a safeguard against the region's democratic decline, and thus the basis for its successful accession to the european union. we therefore need a concrete project in the enlargement process, including a concrete effort and reform of the region's justice system, not just in words but also in concrete actions.
on behalf of the s&d group. the honourable rapporteur, the honourable commissioner, the honourable members and colleagues. the challenges of the pandemic and the urgency of the transition to a green, digital and more social union are a true test of the resilience of our democracy. this time, therefore, i do not want to talk so much about the disrespect for the rule of law as about its limitation or about the pressures on workers' association and trade union activity, but rather to call for a change in the view of democracy as the fundamental value of the european union, on which it stands or falls. social dialogue is at the heart of the european social model. it represents the very heart of our democracy and, indeed, our way of life. it can contribute to improving working conditions, to more decent and fair pay, and also to reducing inequalities, including discrimination on grounds of sex. democracy in the workplace is essential for a social europe. he can harden it. it therefore needs to be consolidated and also extended to other issues such as environmental and social sustainability and corporate social responsibility. social transformation, better lives for people and business success require greater involvement of workers and their representatives in the management of companies. it's not utopian, but it's not new. because we know the different models in the member states. so do the different legal frameworks and also the traditions of worker participation. including those neglected in the transition from one economic or political system to another. a common european framework for worker participation is intended to link all of this and establish common basic rules, standards and procedures. democracy as we know it is not just at home in political institutions like this house, but it is to be lived every day, including in the workplace. i therefore thank the rapporteur for understanding and putting this into practice. both with this important report and by linking this theme to the theme of the future, it is working with the debate of the citizens of the european union at the conference on the future of europe. - thank you. - thank you.
mr. chairman, thank you for your time. respected commissioner, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. it is a fact that economic progress, as well as social progress, is crucially linked to the development of transport infrastructure and connectivity, and that poverty in the field of transport threatens the realisation of human rights, as the lack of access to goods, public services and social capital means social exclusion, in particular for the elderly, people with reduced mobility and rural populations. this requires inclusive policies, particularly in public transport, that ensure accessibility physically and cost-effectively, as well as time efficiency. in the area of environmental progress, we need an environmentally sustainable transport system, which will actually be easier in the aviation sector than in the case of motor vehicle emissions pricing. for all these reasons, european policy must provide effective safety nets to prevent the social well-being of people from becoming a collateral damage to common environmental ambitions and, above all, to economic interests.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the protests in cuba on 11 july and 15 november reflected legitimate grievances of the cuban people about the dire economic situation in the country. but they also had an important political dimension, with citizens demanding freedom of expression and of the press, civil and political rights. in short, democracy. the european union unequivocally supports the right of cuban citizens to express their views peacefully and demand change. we have repeatedly called on the cuban authorities to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, including freedom of association and peaceful assembly; to release people arbitrarily detained; and to engage in an inclusive dialogue on the grievances of its citizens. the cases of cubans facing repression following the events of 11 july and 15 november are of great concern to us. and, as we have repeatedly declared, the european union expects cuba to respect every citizen’s fundamental freedoms and human dignity, including access to justice and the right to a fair trial. already in july this year, the high representative / vice-president borrell urged the cuban government to release all arbitrarily detained protesters, and since then the eu has regularly raised the cases of individuals facing repression with the cuban authorities at all levels, both in havana and here in brussels, and will continue to do so. human rights are an essential part of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement that we have with cuba. the eu reiterates its policy of critical engagement with cuba in the framework of this agreement. we will continue to demand full respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms. we will continue to promote and support reforms, which are more necessary than ever, in order to improve the lives of the cuban people.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on forced labour in the linglong factory and environmental protests in serbia (2021/3020 ((rsp)) *. __________ see minutes of the sitting.
author. – mr president, the linglong tyre factory construction is emblematic of the current growing impact of china’s economic footprint in serbia and across the western balkans. we observe the potentially devastating impact of these projects on the wider environment and on human rights, as well as the surrounding population, all covered under a veil of non-transparency. this extremely sad situation highlights the consequence of the chinese investments. although political leaders may be swayed by grand projects and the promise of jobs and investments, it is impossible to ignore the corrosive impact that chinese investments have on society, governance and on the environment. the protests of the serbian people over the past weeks show that they care about their country and the environment in which they live. after all, we are all home-building creatures, and it is a basic human instinct to care for one’s home. this is why i call on the serbian government to provide a clear action plan moving forward on how they are going to address the existing issues, to honour and follow both their own domestic legislation to the full extent of the law, as well as the regulations passed down as part of the eu accession process. this is particularly important in cases of corrosive investments from authoritarian and totalitarian countries. also, let me welcome the decision of the serbian government to withdraw the law on expropriation and the amendments to the law on referendum, and to investigate and address the conditions at the linglong factory. at the same time, let me welcome the opening of cluster 4 of the negotiating chapters with serbia. i sincerely hope that the opening of the new chapters will provide the serbian authorities with the impetus to ensure the relevant legislation concerning the mentioned cases. it is very important. in this context, it is also important to ensure that investors – regardless of their origin – are not above the law. to conclude, let me highlight that it is imperative that the european union supports the resilience of the neighbourhood and candidate countries.
mr president, it is not often that we discuss a candidate country for membership of the european union as an emergency human rights threat. however, the current human and labour rights situation in serbia fully justifies such a precedent. serbia is not an isolated case of external influence through dubious investments not in line with european standards and values. and those are the ones that result in forced labor. and all this with the direct support of the ruling structures that equate environmental protesters with fascists, while the hooligans, with police protection, defend the murals of convicted war criminals. an intergovernmental conference was held yesterday to open a new cluster of negotiating chapters with serbia. ironically, the very environmental cluster that opened. this comes days after mass protests in serbia against the very government's legislative proposal that would dangerously harm the environment and harm the health of citizens. civil resistance succeeded in bringing about the withdrawal of the controversial law, but brussels' resistance to such government policies, unfortunately, was absent. the message we are sending is that only serbia, a country that shows signs of regress in the area of the rule of law, is being rewarded with the opening of new chapters. and while albania and north macedonia, which have met all the conditions to start negotiations, are still in the waiting room, kosovo citizens are still the only ones who need a visa to enter the european union. such decisions will not restore the credibility of the enlargement policy.
the author. (indistinctly) not directed against serbia, its citizens, but warned the serbian authorities that the violations of fundamental rights that we are witnessing in the case of the linglong factory and environmental protests are completely unacceptable for a country that wants to become a member of the european union. both cases, despite their extreme nature, point to a wider problem for serbia as a candidate country. in the case of the violation of the fundamental rights of vietnamese workers, the background is also the issue of the attitude of the serbian authorities towards chinese investments, in particular their special position in relation to the serbian legal order, which is completely unacceptable for a country that is negotiating membership in the european union and is preparing to adopt the european legal order. the violence of hooligans against environmental protesters, coupled with the unusual passivity of the police, points to the fact that the serbian authorities have great difficulty in implementing what was agreed in the negotiations, especially with regard to such a fundamental right as the right to peaceful protest. the resolution recalls that despite the assurances given, the serbian authorities are not implementing in practice what was agreed in the association negotiations. i should point out that with all the open clusters, the new methodology, the fate of serbia's accession negotiations with the european union is in the hands of the serbian authorities. it is up to them to make the covenants come true, not just on paper, but through concrete actions. as an advocate of the enlargement of the european union to the western balkans, i cannot hide my disappointment at what is happening in serbia.
