madam president, the eu is not only an economic union; more than that it is a people’s union. the safety of our citizens must be of primary concern. the freedom of movement should also be supplemented with strong cooperation across the borders to prevent any kind of impunity. that is why the cooperation on criminal matters is of particular importance. by sharing information and by creating common instruments to facilitate our cooperation, we are taking steps towards effectively addressing issues such as terrorism and organised crime, but also gender-based violence and hate crimes. however, i also want to stress that some issues are of national competence as procedural issues, such as admissibility of evidence. it is important that the european arrest warrant contributes to streamlining the struggle against crime, not making it more complicated. of course, with that said, respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights always needs to be in the centre, and safeguards always need to be in place. the arrest warrant must be up to date for a better cooperation and therefore also a safer europe for all citizens. as the rapporteur said, security and freedom go hand in hand.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? crime is becoming more rampant, coordinated and sophisticated. gang crime is on the rise. the death toll will increase. we need more european cooperation to fight crime. the european arrest warrant, which has been in place for many years, is an important step. it's a tool that can stop serious criminals from hiding from the law and abusing the freedom of movement. but for it to work, member states must rely on each other's legal certainty, and that is not the case today. poland has reduced the rule of law to the point where other member states no longer consider it a safe country to extradite people to and more member states are moving in the same direction. this resolution shows the importance of the european arrest warrant for the fight against crime in europe. but it also makes clear that respect for the rule of law and its independence is absolutely essential for judicial cooperation in the eu. the road to security in europe does not go through closed borders but through stronger cooperation based on the fundamental values of democracy and the rule of law.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it was our green colleague, isabella lövin, who laid the foundations for the then new fisheries policy here in the eu in 2013. very, very important work and a big thank you in advance to you isabella for it. but now we have to take several important big steps forward. we really need to protect 30% of the eu's marine areas from overfishing and overfishing. we also need to ensure that fishing quotas are based on what ecosystem services can deliver, that they are truly sustainable and nothing else. and so we really have to stop the harmful, the downright harmful fishing methods, such as bottom trawling, which cause enormous damage to plants and animals and entire ecosystems on the sea floor. what's the solution to this? it is actually to focus on the local, small-scale, coastal fisheries. it not only provides cleaner seas but also the opportunity for new jobs in often smaller coastal towns and it also contributes to a long-term sustainable rural environment.
for the renew group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? trade connects the world. never before has trade been so extensive as it is today. one of the eu's most important tasks is to work for a free world trade system, governed by rules, where agreements are actually kept. only then will trade become a real tool for economic growth, for promoting human rights and for protecting the climate and the environment. it is therefore unacceptable that some countries exploit weaknesses in the wto structure to avoid meeting their contractual obligations. with this decision, we're closing loopholes. it is a clear victory for parliament. the eu will be able to take countermeasures. not only in the field of trade in goods, but also in the field of services and certain intellectual property rights. the commission has also now promised to propose by the end of this year an effective new instrument to deter and counter coercive measures by third countries. the commission has also promised to develop an improved oversight system for our free trade agreements to give equal weight to breaches of sustainability-related rules as to breaches of market access rules. there's a lot going on, and we have high expectations. we look forward to ambitious proposals that will make it possible to fully uphold the sustainability chapters in our trade agreements. this is of vital importance for world trade. the eu has a unique opportunity here to work with its allies to deliver results and drive change that can have an impact on better trade, working conditions for people and our planet.
mr president, i would like to thank you. transitioning to a greener and more sustainable transport sector will be crucial if we in the eu are to achieve our climate goals and be climate neutral by 2050. this is why investment in infrastructure is of the utmost importance, and the transeuropean transport network plays a central role in this. an important change in the new ten-t regulation must therefore be the inclusion of alternative fuels infrastructure. this is going to be absolutely critical to our ability to be able to reframe all modes of transport, to make all modes of transport sustainable. the eu must also continue to prioritise investment in the european rail network and ensure multimodal and smart transport solutions. it is particularly important for the railways to remove the bottlenecks which are currently hampering crossborder rail transport. investment in infrastructure is also crucial to guaranteeing accessibility for all in europe, both urban and rural, and to fostering jobs and growth across the union. finally, i would also like to stress the importance of ensuring that the projects we invest in are also completed on time. it is important that the priority corridors are completed by 2030 and the remaining network by 2050. i now look forward to and expect a progressive and sustainable proposal from the commission later this year.
madam president, two swedish boys were threatened at knifepoint in the dead of night, stripped naked, tortured, raped with a stick and told they were going to die by two sadistic migrants. you gather to debate and shed tears for those suffering at the border. well, where is your empathy for the victims of europe’s mindless mass migration policy? native citizens have been raped, beaten and tortured. innocent people have fallen prey to beheadings, bombings and stabbings in the name of islam. when you return home to your safe neighbourhood, congratulating yourself on having raised the issue of the humanitarian situation at the border, please spare a thought for those who will suffer the consequences of your migration policy. for those two boys are not alone. they are part of sweden’s ‘generation prey’. ‘generation prey’, ladies and gentlemen. madam speaker, this house, by saving everyone, will save no one and destroy europe in the process.
madam president, i would like to thank you. finally, the presidency of donald trump is turning into history. we can finally put his fossil nostalgia, his nationalism, his racism and his unstable behavior behind us. but it's too easy to think that we're going to get away with all this just because trump is out of the white house. it's wrong. instead, it is more important than ever that we continue to fight to maintain, strengthen and defend democracy. donald trump has shown how easy it is to get people to believe in conspiracy theories. how easy it is to incite, confuse and spread hatred and racism. unfortunately, he has a large following. even here in europe, you know. president-elect joe biden has a huge responsibility on his shoulders. but so do we. democracy must be defended. every day, in every room, in every meeting.
madam president, i should like to say to prime minister costa that you are taking the lead at a time when the world needs exactly that: leadership. not only within the eu borders, but also in the global arena, and this requires the moral leadership to say that a world in which two thirds of the population will have no access to covid-19 vaccines by 2022 is unacceptable. it also requires the executive leadership to enact the eu’s first sanctions against the world’s worst perpetrators of human-rights violations under the new global human-rights sanctions regime, and it requires the global leadership to stand up to china, to hold russia to account and to rebuild our transatlantic and multilateral ties while strengthening europe’s ability to take responsibility. the s&d group looks forward to working with you on a truly progressive global agenda. good luck.
madam president, for the european union, for our citizens and for the migrants, the moment of truth is here. we need a common european approach to migration. it is time to break the political deadlock in the council. last september, the commission presented its proposal for a new pact on migration and asylum. it is now crucial that the portuguese presidency move the work forward. as rapporteur on the regulation on asylum and migration management, i believe we now have an opportunity to find an efficient, pragmatic and practical political compromise. we need a meaningful solidarity for the front-line member states and flexible options for the contributing member states, and let me be clear: all member states need to contribute in some way. therefore, the council needs to unite on a position, by consensus would be ideal, but if it’s not feasible it should be by qualified majority. we need to start the reforms and i believe that this needs to be on the top of the agenda of the portuguese presidency. my questions to the portuguese presidency and prime minister costa are therefore: what actions will the portuguese presidency take during its term to unite the council on a position; what is the timeline? and good luck of course with your presidency.
madam president, mr president and mr prime minister! for a long time we social democrats have been pushing for a strong europe, a strong social europe, with security, justice and equality. as a swede, i am very proud that our government was able to organise the summit in gothenburg where all the member states supported the social pillar. but now, now the fight must go on, especially in the shadow of the ongoing pandemic. i therefore welcome the clear intention of the portuguese presidency to give priority to social issues. i would particularly like to stress the importance of linking the social dimension with the green agenda and the digital agenda. we want a more socially, ecologically and economically sustainable europe. that is why, mr costa, i am looking forward to the summit in porto. thank you for that invitation.
mr. talman, what are you doing? even before the pandemic, it was clear that there was a shortage of affordable, decent housing. many europeans today live in unhealthy and cramped housing. too many people are also forced to flee their homes, and homelessness is widespread. there are a number of challenges to the housing situation in europe, where the report makes concrete proposals which are welcome. at the same time, it is of course important that we have a good balance between the eu and national levels, since housing policy is basically the responsibility of the member states. the housing shortage must be addressed. housing segregation must be addressed and the climate impact of both construction and housing must be reduced. where the eu can act for a forward-looking housing policy, where the eu should do so. i welcome the message from mr nicolas schmit on the future of housing policy.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – madam president, the gender equality strategy is a product of a struggle of generations of women before us, in europe and beyond, whose shoulders we are standing on today. i want to thank commissioner dalli for the inclusion of intersectional perspective and clearly underlining that discrimination and inequalities are structural and institutionalised. this is the key to break the glass ceiling for all women. this is key to make a true feminist europe possible. we, therefore, need to support women’s rights defenders and women’s rights organisations in the eu and globally, including organisations working on srhr, lgbtqi rights and anti-racism, not only financially but also institutionally. it is said that the crisis magnifies already existing problems in societies and so has the current pandemic. the growing violence and exploitation of women and children are two of them. there are, therefore, some proposals and issues the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) and i would like to propose: the importance of an eu anti—trafficking coordinator that can closely monitor the implementation of the anti—trafficking directive by the member states and act if they don’t implement it; to support member states in training law enforcement and judicial staff on gender—based violence and hate crimes, including those committed online. victims’ rights must be placed in the centre. when we are seeking justice we must do everything we can to prevent discrimination, traumatisation and re—victimisation.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. commissioner dalli, this is the police. yes, shortly after the pandemic was a fact a year ago, civil society, the un and women's rights activists around the world warned that this pandemic risked becoming a gender equality crisis. but the warnings have not helped. women's clubs continue to report an increase in violence against women. we see devastating consequences for sexual and reproductive health and sexual and reproductive rights. experience from previous crises suggests that women's economic situation will be affected in the long term. and when women are affected, our children are affected. i therefore call on the eu and the member states to take gender equality issues very seriously. together with the socialist group, i have called from the beginning of the pandemic for women's rights to be respected and for all measures to integrate gender equality, not least in the budget and recovery funds. it is positive and absolutely necessary that the eu now has a gender equality strategy. but it's not enough to talk about strategy. now we must ensure that it is followed up and implemented with clear objectives and concrete measures in all policy areas. if we want to repair the economic and social damage of this crisis, it is important to increase women's participation in the labour market women's right to their own work, their own livelihood. we will also link gender equality work to climate policy and the digital agenda. now, once and for all, let's take this seriously. we will work for a more equal europe because it benefits everyone. i would like to conclude by thanking our rapporteur, mr fitzgerald, for his excellent cooperation. thank you, thank you!
madam president, the commission’s gender equality strategy comes at a time when we are witnessing a backlash against our common european values. the pandemic, as we all know, has made things worse and has deepened existing inequalities, in particular for those most marginalised in society. member states, such as poland and hungary, have used the pandemic as an opportunity to introduce new measures to limit access to sexual and reproductive health care, to attack transgender and intersex people’s rights and to roll back on important work to combat gender-based violence. the report we are voting on today sends a strong signal to the commission and to the regressive member states of our union. we need to go beyond nice words to deliver real change.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner dalli, this is the police. listening to the debate on the eu's new gender equality strategy, one sometimes gets the impression that the typical eu citizen is a middle-aged white man with top jobs who does nothing but oppress, discriminate and abuse women. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. because while more and more men today are equal and fatherless, and women are based on the central bank, the european commission and the most powerful country in europe, the real challenges lie elsewhere. it is not in the boardrooms of companies that gender equality is challenged today, but in the neighborhood where genital mutilation, honour rape, forced marriage and sex trafficking are a terrible reality - something you for ideological reasons turn a blind eye to. the proposals may benefit some, but they do not address the biggest threats to gender equality today. thank you, thank you!
madam president, the chinese regime never hesitates to violate human rights and international law. the case of hong kong is one of the many violations of human rights and international law. the speedy deterioration in hong kong is worrying. the oppressive chinese regime must immediately release all political prisoners, including the immediate and unconditional release of the opposition members of the parliament of hong kong and also the release of the swedish bookseller gui minhai in prison in the prc. introduction of the national security legislation in hong kong is a shame. the ‘one country, two systems’ principle must be respected. it is time for the eu and the member states to act. how much more should the people of hong kong suffer until the world acts? it shouldn’t matter how big a country is geographically, demographically or economically: human rights and international law are universal and must always apply.
mr president, the case of selahattin demirtaş is a story about a father, a human rights lawyer and a well—respected politician, but it is also a story about people, the kurdish people and many other people in turkey under oppression by different governments, and currently the national conservative akp government. thanks to the european court of human rights many have got restoration, some through economic compensation, others through freedom from imprisonment. the case of selahattin demirtaş is the story of a person, but also of a people. that the turkish government refuses to respect the 22 december 2020 ruling of the grand chamber of the european court of human rights is unacceptable. commissioner dalli, the turkish minister of foreign affairs is here these days. will you and the high commissioner receive my challenge to raise the issue of immediately releasing mr demirtaş and all other political prisoners. and will you also accept my challenge to put this on the table at the next meeting of the council of europe’s committee of ministers? finally, i just want to quote my colleague nacho sánchez amor: ‘that’s enough with the love letters.’ it is time for action. it is time for democracy.’
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, the free trade agreement with vietnam is the most ambitious that eu’s ever negotiated with a developing country. when we adopted it, we expected it to be not only an economic win-win for both parties, but also an opportunity to advance sustainable trade, to advance democracy and human rights. initially, we did see some positive results, especially on human rights. but the human rights situation is unacceptable, and the development so far has been very disappointing. we ask now for the immediate release of the journalists and political prisoners. now is the time to step up our pressure, and use the agreement as the platform for supporters and civil society as we promised. when we adopted the trade agreement we also called upon the commission and the european external action service to swiftly carry out a comprehensive human-rights impact assessment of the agreement. today we repeat that call.
the committee on agriculture and rural development has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, rethinking economic circularity is not just questioning our relationship with material accumulation. it is also, and above all, a radical change in the way we consume and extract the endless natural resources. therefore, alongside the industrial approach, it is essential to raise awareness in the agricultural and food sector of this issue, with the aim of reducing its debt to nature to a minimum. in this action plan for the circular economy, the commission welcomes alternatives to the still dominant productivist agricultural model, which is too resource-intensive, not good for the climate and destroys jobs. better control of inputs, reduction of dependence on plant proteins, relocation of production, recovery of waste, fight against food waste, more transparent consumer information, in particular through labelling, are all tools that will help finally bring agriculture into the era of the circular economy.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. if europe is to meet its climate goals, we need to move away from a 'throw-away' society and towards a more resource-efficient circular economy. the circular economy is already in full swing, in sweden and europe. there are innovative entrepreneurs who are reshaping their business models and driving development forward with smart solutions. it's about recycling and reusing in new ways. here, the policy must make it much easier, so that this transition can start as soon as possible, not put the wheels in the wheel. but unfortunately, the greens and the left are constantly making proposals in the name of climate that make it difficult for companies to change, without any climate benefit. in sweden, they are proposing a plastic bag tax and soon a clothing tax. the european parliament wants to ban advertising and force all companies to stockpile product spare parts that no one knows if they will even be used. at the same time, it is blocking nuclear power, new technologies such as carbon capture and easier trade in sustainable services. they hate nuclear power so much that we're importing coal-fired electricity in poland. the government's new clothing tax must be stopped by the european commission. that's why i've filed this dress tax, and i hope you can stop it. climate cannot afford political greenwashing from the left, climate needs a circular economy that makes it easier to change.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we live in a reality where the perpetrators – the enablers – of trafficking in large part remain unpunished. we live in a reality where the victims – society’s most vulnerable – remain unprotected and often criminalised, and still the member states fail to implement the anti-trafficking directive and thereby fail to combat effectively this brutal crime, increasingly organised online. the eu has still not managed to present a new strategy to combat trafficking, and anti—trafficking is now dealt with under the fight against organised crime. we, the greens/efa group, find this approach inadequate. we need a new anti-trafficking strategy in place, with an exclusive focus on the fight against trafficking, making sure that the victims—based approach and the directive are implemented.
for the ecr group. president. - the debate is closed. the commission yärva johansson! let me tell you what is going on in the shadow of the so-called humane refugee policy that you advocate. in 2015, the nigerian mafia exploited the open borders to establish illegal migration routes into the eu. now they're making billions from this business. young girls, most of whom are not asylum seekers, are lured by the promise of work in europe. there are no jobs waiting for you, only forced prostitution. those who refuse are gang-raped and tortured. some of those who have tried to escape have been murdered, dismembered and buried. yes, you heard right. madam president, i would like to thank you. strictly controlled borders, police cooperation and a rational migration policy had removed the basis of this deeply inhumane and lucrative activity and given us the resources to help more and more, the most vulnerable, on the ground. this is not human. it's irresponsible.
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you, commissioner johansson, for telling me about all the susans in the world. it is ten years since our trafficking in human beings directive was adopted, but every day during these ten years women and girls have been sexually exploited. it didn't have to be like this. if men didn't buy sex, there would be no market for sexually exploiting girls and women. a gender perspective is required in all anti-trafficking measures. in my home country, sweden, we have a sex-buying law, which we social democrats pushed through over 20 years ago. a sex-purchase law that criminalizes the purchase of sex, but not the sale, and that's important. trade in the bodies of girls and women should not be a trade in the eu internal market. girls and women should be in control of their own bodies and their own lives.
mr president, i would like to thank you. after 25 years in business, i wish i could say that the ongoing indebtedness of future generations will lead to competitiveness, innovation, long-term growth and future prosperity. but is this really what the money is for? i doubt that. in spain, for example, the national wage has been introduced and proposals have been made to reduce the number of days in the working week to four. in france, money is being spent to maintain an unreasonably low retirement age, and in italy, tax cuts are planned but no reorganization of public finances. all this while the swedish entrepreneur sees his life's work crash. the swedish worker has to work longer and longer, pay more and more in taxes and more and more often end his life as a poor pensioner. because someone has to pay, and as usual the swedes, with the help of the other swedish parliamentary parties, are the ones who draw the short straw. the eu has become a grant union and sweden can continue to act as a cash machine. it's not sustainable.
mr president, i would like to thank you. with the eu's emergency package now, we are getting a huge turnover of billions that we really all collectively have to take full responsibility for that these huge resources are used for the right things. we also have the chance, the opportunity, to put a much, much higher gear into the work on climate change for the whole of europe. we need to achieve a fair and equitable recovery now after the pandemic, really focusing on creating sustainable jobs. we all know the scale of the investment needs. we need more renewable energy, new railways, more charging stations. that list could go on forever. it really takes a lot of investment to achieve climate goals. now is the time to make these investments and invest in the solutions needed to create a more sustainable, more equitable and more climate-friendly future in our communities. let's take that chance!
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? every hour five women die because of unsafe abortions, and studies by the world health organization show that strict abortion laws are not associated with low abortion rates. any woman with an unwanted pregnancy who cannot access a safe abortion is at risk of an unsafe abortion. poland's restrictions on abortion rights are not only a serious restriction on access to legal and safe abortion; they are an attack on the rule of law, and they are an attack on women's human rights that can be life-threatening. i've said it before: the eu must protect the rule of law and fundamental rights on sexual and reproductive health and rights and the right to safe and legal abortion. every woman and girl has the right to control her own body. that also applies to poland.
madam president, in moscow lavrov checkmated high representative borrell in four moves. you compromised your credibility, high representative, damaged your office, and undermined the foreign and security interests of member states. you did not threaten sanctions or harshly condemn the arrest of navalny, nor did you censure the aggression in the ukraine or denounce russia when they declared our diplomats persona non grata. as a swede and a northerner, i ask myself: where does this unassertiveness come from? is it from sheer lack of experience? is it that western and southern trade and gas contracts trump northern and eastern security interests? please answer this, because for us in the north, this highlights the danger in transferring power over foreign policy to brussels by abolishing national vetoes. those who hope that the eu will have their back surely do so in vain. high representative borrell, you should resign. we need someone who can play in the grand tournaments.
madam president, i would like to thank you. mr borell, please! you went to russia last week. you went to see putin, who just threw his most powerful rival in jail after failing to poison him. you went to russia, which locked up over a thousand protesters. you went there empty-handed and unprepared. in moscow it should have been obvious that the eu would tighten sanctions to the hilt, that the eu condemns human rights violations, threats and harassment of journalists and activists, that alexei navalny must be released, that cooperation such as nord stream 2 should be stopped. all of these are things that putin doesn't like. but we don't like putin's policies. at the same time, a swedish diplomat was expelled from russia. the visit can only be described as a failure. a lot went wrong in moscow, but the biggest mistake was actually making the trip.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? my colleagues! it is now almost four years since the eu concluded the association agreement with ukraine. it was a victory for europe and for the ukrainian people, who had carried out a revolution for the sake of the agreement. the euro-may was a revolution for europe. it was when yanukovych in 2013 at the last minute changed his mind and chose not to sign that the ukrainian people had enough and deposed him. it also means that we, as the eu, have a great responsibility and expectations to live up to. it is important that we are clear that ukraine has a long way to go in terms of reforming the judicial and political systems. the desire to move closer to europe is precisely that, to put an end once and for all to the corrupt structures that have remained since the soviet era. and we have to set high standards. but i welcome this report and the clear ambition it has. ukraine is part of europe. the european union is not a party to the treaty. ukraine is europe.
madam president, i would like to thank you. colleagues, the council and the commission! we are still in a crisis, a very serious crisis with high infection rates and new mutations. we don't know how the pandemic will evolve or how long it will last, but we have a vaccine, and the vaccine gives people hope. without a doubt, eu cooperation is crucial to ensure that all eu citizens have access to vaccines. the eu-wide procurement is important for member states, and we now have a vaccine in place, but there are still concerns about the problems we have seen. i'm thinking about astra zeneca and their late deliveries. i am thinking of the commission's attempt to use trade and export restrictions as a means, as in northern ireland. i am thinking above all of the citizens who are now waiting for their vaccine, and i would therefore like to make three clear demands to the commission. the commission must ensure that the agreements are respected, that they are transparent; it is a matter of trust. the commission must secure supplies, increase production and speed up the member states' efforts to implement vaccinations, so that we reach our goal. and the commission must take the collective leadership of our common vaccination strategy so that vaccination is equitable and fair. we all have to work together in a difficult time. we must ensure equitable access to vaccines throughout the eu, but also globally. "no one should be left behind", so many say. then we must also help our developing countries to have access to the vaccine. the virus knows no borders. that is why it is so important that the vaccine is not hindered by any borders either. this is the time to act quickly.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the commission is not going to be able to do that. my colleagues! the smooth running of vaccinations is absolutely vital to our lives and health. it is also for our economies and for the cohesion of the european union. we face the pandemic together and we will only get through it together. despite the eu's limited influence on health policy, thanks to the eu, we were able to procure the vaccine together, to guarantee a vaccine for the entire union, for all citizens, not just the largest, richest or loudest countries. but the vaccination is too slow. the most vulnerable get the biggest hit. this is unacceptable and we demand answers. why did it take so long to get the agreements in place, and how are they written? we need transparency. that is why we need a principle of publicity, and i would like to know how the president of the commission intends to ensure that this is the case.
madam president, i would like to thank you. after the heinous storming of the us congress, the spotlight has now been turned on the role of social media in our society. i think we can all agree. social media has become a very central channel for our democratic conversation and freedom of expression online. lack of clear game rules and laws means that platforms today remove content on arbitrary grounds. many people are asking: why is facebook deleting my posts and my account without explanation, and i have no one to call? why do these platforms allow threats, child pornography, and illegal products to flow freely online? as my party's negotiator for the new internet digital services act, i will work to bring order to this digital wild west that exists today. then it needs to be clear that what is illegal offline must also be illegal online, and that it should then be removed from social media. we need to ensure fair competition that fosters innovation and entrepreneurship, and promotes the right to express one's opinion online. it must be guaranteed. because, if we're being completely honest, increasing the censorship of legal content is not conducive to democracy, but rather increases what we're trying to counter here: conspiracy theories and increased polarization.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, the council! twenty-five years ago, representatives from 189 nations came together and adopted the beijing declaration, with a vision of equal rights, freedom and opportunity for women. i wish we could celebrate this week celebrate the successes of women's human rights. but instead, here in the chamber, we have debated poland's restrictions on abortion rights. ten years ago the council of europe's istanbul convention opened its doors, and i wish that this year we could pay attention to the end of violence against women. but instead we must continue to fight for all eu member states to ratify the convention. progress has been made since the beijing declaration, but it has been far too slow, and we risk the pandemic making it take longer too. so we now face a choice. we can keep going at the pace we're going. but then it will take 60 years for the eu to be equal. or we choose to act now, and i want to act. i want to see an eu where women are fully involved in the labour market. in an eu where both women and men are working, economic growth is also increasing. i want to see an eu where gender equality and climate go hand in hand, because gender equality is necessary if we are to tackle the climate crisis. i want to see an eu that immediately puts an end to gender-based violence. girls and women have a right to their own bodies. so ladies and gentlemen, it is time to really step up the pace and make the vision of equal rights, freedom and opportunities for girls and women a reality. my grandchildren won't have to wait 60 years.
mr president, i would like to thank you. human rights are women's rights and women's rights are human rights. a quote from a famous speech given 25 years ago when the nations of the world came together and laid the foundation for the global equality movement. of course, those gathered then had no idea how bad things would still be 25 years later. despite all the nice words. that 400 million girls and women live below the global poverty line, that abortion rights are being questioned and pushed back, that women are still being gender-blemished, raped and killed by men close to them. we must go from nice words to action. we need to prioritize money to make a tangible difference. we have to do it again, do it right, do it better.
madam president, abuse, torture, arbitrary arrests, mutilation, the murder of civilian protesters, arrests and beatings of political figures: these are just a few of the things that the people of uganda are faced with by the regime in uganda when asking for their human rights to be respected. a friend of mine, sam, who wrote to me on 13 january, wrote, ‘sorry, i was checking if the internet was on because the internet has been cut off. on monday night, some time after our chat, i, in the company of my colleagues, was attacked by state paramilitary security groups, due to the petition filed before the international criminal court. bullets were fired. i wasn’t injured, but a friend of mine was.’ colleagues, it’s inhuman what is happening in uganda. we need to act now, but we should have acted yesterday. each day that passes means more people being deprived of their lives. we have known for a long time about the severe human rights attacks, not least against the lgbti community. my friend, sam, who is also one of the leading lawyers on a trial on the appeal on the election results of 14 january told me, just 30 minutes ago, that right now they are waiting for the ruling of the supreme court of uganda. no one is expecting miracles, due to the extensive corruption taking place and the oppression dissidents are facing, but the international community has a responsibility to stand up for all democracy and human rights defenders in uganda. the elections in uganda were not fair and nor were they free. we now have an eu global sanction mechanism in place that needs to become worthy of its name, but it can only become worthy of its name if we use it, and now is the time to use it.
mr president, over three months have passed since the central government in ethiopia aggressively marched into tigray, and the people in tigray have suffered tremendously since then. it is a shame that prime minister abiy ahmed, who received the nobel peace prize, acts in total contradiction with the spirit of the peace prize. he’s not worthy of the prize when he seems to not even be able to spell ‘peace’. instead his actions have led to a humanitarian catastrophe in tigray, and information on what is really going on in the region still remains shut down to a big extent. a couple of weeks ago, we also got alarming information of sexual violence against women and girls being used as a tool of war. that is a war crime. the eu and all member states must cut all kinds of support that goes through the ethiopian central government, channel it only through other actors so it reaches the people, and increase the humanitarian support to the tigray region, and we must start acting in defence of all women and girls that are having their lives destroyed. an eu feminist policy is more important now than ever.
the rapporteur is inta. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? colleagues and audience! we are facing an urgent global climate crisis and there is no time to lose. scientists agree that global pricing of carbon dioxide would be the most effective measure to reduce emissions. but as long as that's not practical, we have to find other ways forward. many of the eu's trading partners emit carbon dioxide cheaply or even free of charge. it is therefore high time for the eu to put a price on emissions from imported goods. the polluter pays, not just in the eu. we simply have to pay for all emissions wherever they occur. for a co2 cap mechanism to be possible, it has to be a pure climate action. it must be in line with the international trade rules of the wto and with our trade and investment agreements. at the same time, incentives must be created for producers both inside and outside the eu to change their production and for countries to price their own emissions. no emissions should be priced twice, nor should any production be protected twice. it's not our trading partners we want to get at. it is emissions that we are targeting, we are not doing it to anyone, we want to do it together with other countries. we also want the proceeds to go to climate action, especially in poor countries. the days of "business as usual" are over. we need to save the climate and make trade sustainable. without ever stopping to fight for open international trade and free markets, pricing of imported emissions will be a key to reducing emissions. the eu cannot wait. we have to make the polluter pay, no matter where the emissions are.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in addition to seizing even more power at the expense of the independence of the member states, the eu now wants to legislate on an import duty on industrial products in the name of the climate. this is to reduce the global carbon footprint. but will it really have that effect? in practice, for example, the proposal requires that for each component of a computer, the amount of carbon dioxide required to produce it must be calculated. components are manufactured all over the world today, and the footprint is different everywhere. calculating exactly how much, and pricing accordingly, is almost impossible and would involve enormous effort at great cost and little benefit. because if the eu imposes tariffs on imports, our trading partners will take countermeasures. we would have a trade war with increased poverty and reduced prosperity as a result. and we would ultimately have fewer resources left to deal with the aftermath of the pandemic, the euro crisis, the health crisis, global poverty and the global environmental challenges. that's not the way forward.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. human rights and freedoms are the guiding light of european cooperation. sustainability with respect for people and the environment is the foundation of responsible business. our trade policy must be based on openness so that all countries can participate in the global economy. but value chains often become long and complex. many companies have a fantastic sustainability work and they work prevention to prevent that somewhere in the chain there has been forced labor or that activities have been carried out in violation of basic respect for the environment and rules, but not all take their responsibility. the violation of human rights or the destruction of the environment must never be a competitive advantage. so we need to have rules that apply to everyone, regardless of where the company is headquartered. legislation on human and environmental due diligence targeting large companies and where the requirements are proportionate can be effective and make a big difference.
madam president, i would like to thank you. crises seem to have become the fuel of the eu. for every crisis, more power and money for brussels is the main solution. critical voices are silenced with words like solidarity and justice, measures are launched as temporary emergency interventions. after a while, however, it becomes apparent that "temporary" really means "permanent". the corona package is supposed to be the next example. the juncker fund, now known as 'investeu', was sold as a temporary opportunity to address an acute market failure following the 2008 crisis. the fund's temporary role was to mobilise private and public investment in the european economy, but it has long since been cemented, despite criticism that it crowds out innovative investors and that the benefits are highly overstated. in this way, the eu wants to direct taxpayers' money to the political favourites of the day. a planned economic model which, taken as a whole, has not led to increased competitiveness, long-term growth or prepared us for new crises. it is simply time to put an end to these temporary solutions once and for all.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the commission and the council! the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment. the principles of the european pillar of social rights and the sustainable development goals must be the compass for investment and reform. only then can we create jobs and sustainable growth, ensuring equal opportunities and social protection for all. the standard of living of all eu member states and all eu citizens must be improved. another issue of equal importance is gender equality. the differences between women and men are enormous when it comes to employment, pay and pensions. this is totally unacceptable and therefore the recovery must also be guided by a gender perspective that is more consistently integrated into the annual growth strategy. we are going to build the new economy for europe. the new economy must become a green economy where the fight for climate and gender equality go hand in hand.
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you, commissioner, and the secretary of state. we all stand behind the objectives of this action plan. the social pillar has 20 ambitious goals worth pursuing. that's a fine ambition, but goals are different from means. we support the objectives of the action plan, but i think the means are totally wrong. since the gothenburg summit in 2017, the social pillar has been used by the commission as a free card to present legislative proposals. legislation emanating from the social pillar, even though it is neither legally binding nor part of the treaties. do we want more women in the european labour market? yes, we must ensure that member states have childcare that is accessible and not too expensive and parental insurance that prevents families from being excluded, and provide access to education and invest in entrepreneurship. all these are efforts which must be made by the member states and not by the commission. it is the member states that must take this debate in hand and not the commission which will present these legislative proposals in the form of a one-size-fits-all suit. it is time to stop blaming the member states and blame the eu. it is time for the commission to stop making proposals in areas which are detrimental to the functioning of the labour market.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the commission and the council! as a social democrat, i am proud that one of our most important election promises, to create a more sustainable, social and fair europe, is now on the agenda. it started in sweden, in gothenburg, 2017. i was a minister in the government of stefan löfven and i know how important it was that all the member states supported the social pillar. i therefore welcome the commission's action plan. the need for a more social europe has not been stronger in modern times and the crisis is contributing to this. the starting point of the action plan is clear. the main responsibility for implementing the social pillar lies, of course, with the member states. but to strengthen our social model of green growth, fair working conditions, increased gender equality and strong social dialogue, joint efforts are needed at all levels. the overall objectives of employment, education and the fight against poverty and social exclusion became crucial. one third of all women in the eu are not in employment, and women have been hit harder by the crisis. if we are to achieve the employment targets, we need a more equal labour market. studies clearly show that if more women enter the workforce, both gender equality and growth increase. finally, when the commission presents a new strategic plan on health and safety at work, i would like to see proposals for a zero vision for fatal accidents at work. no one should have to risk dying on the job.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the eu must be a free zone for lgbtq people. the eu must be a place where lgbtq people are not discriminated against, not threatened, not abused, not killed. the eu is to be the freest and most tolerant region in the world. it's a beautiful and big decision, but it comes with a demand to act on it. we must ensure that everyone is entitled to the same protection against discrimination throughout the eu. the commission has therefore proposed that the member states should adopt a common anti-discrimination legislation. but the anti-discrimination directive has been opposed for over a decade. we must also ensure that we stop all payments to member states which do not live up to the eu's fundamental values. they're not gonna have a penny of our taxpayers' money.
author. – madam president, i want to first of all express our heartfelt thanks to my colleagues for a good cooperation during the negotiations. it’s not the first time we in this parliament are discussing the strangulation of democracy in cambodia and the larger asean region, and i’m afraid it is not the last time. the cambodian government has since 2017 deliberately worked to undermine the country’s democracy, its democratic institutions and attacked opposition, ngos, trade unions and media. just earlier this month, nine leaders of the opposition were sentenced in their absence to 20 to 25 years in prison for the false accusation of trying to stage a coup. in this resolution, which the s&d group and i fully support, we call upon the cambodian government to immediately reverse this slip into an authoritarian abyss and to repeal all repressive laws and stop any forms of harassment and abuse against all dissidents. we call on the european council to take a formal position on the human rights situation and deterioration of democracy in cambodia and to adopt further restrictive measures against key figures in the government and security forces. lastly, we urge the european commission and the council to draw up a comprehensive and strategic democracy initiative directed to the countries of the asean region and to present it to the european parliament within six months. cambodia is on a dangerous path, but the people of cambodia deserve better. they deserve their democratic and human rights.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner wojciechowski, you are here. rural development is not only linked to agricultural issues, but is also very closely linked. we should therefore have had this important discussion well in advance of the decisions on the cap. we really need a clear, common long-term vision now and i hope that this vision will be able to describe a future rural area free of injustice and corruption. we are going to support people and the planet, not primarily large-scale industrialized agriculture, which after all only a small number of people make a lot of money. we need clear investments in local, sustainable production and self-sufficiency, and we need money that goes to ecosystem services, biodiversity and climate, so that we can produce food in the future as well. i really hope so, even though the swedish centre and other right-wing parties are voting time and again for legislation and policies that go in the opposite direction. my question to the commission is: how are you prepared to change the cap to bring it into line with such a sustainable vision?
madam president, the council and the commission! more than a year has passed since the covid-19 pandemic struck the world, and millions of people have died. through special efforts and international cooperation, several vaccines have been developed in a very short time. that's good enough. however, several member states are now facing a third wave of the pandemic, and vaccine deliveries are delayed or even absent. it is clear that the commission needs to do more to put pressure on pharmaceutical companies to comply with the agreements. vaccine supplies must be secured, and vaccine production must be increased. we are not going to have a trade war, but our promise to the citizens of the eu about a vaccine this summer must be fulfilled. then time is of the essence. time is our most important factor. eu cooperation must continue and coordination must be improved. only cooperation and solidarity can bring us out of this crisis. i welcome the proposal for a common eu vaccine certificate. families have been torn apart across the border. workers have been unable to get to their jobs across the border. free movement within the eu must be restored as soon as possible. it's about the job. it's about tourism. it is about the recovery of our europe.
madam president, i would like to thank you. as the rapporteur, mr lópez, and several other speakers before me have mentioned, nearly 400 000 people die prematurely every year as a result of air pollution. we can compare that to almost half of those who died now in the last year during the coronavirus pandemic to put that in perspective. it is simply not possible to turn a blind eye to environmental and health issues because they are so closely linked. we must begin to deal with these matters now with the seriousness they deserve, simply to impose stricter rules and thus also save lives. we must tighten up the pollution ceilings that exist at eu level, and of course they must be in line with wto rules. of course it is! if a country cannot guarantee this and does not comply with it, it must also pay. we must be able to have quick, juicy fines given to those by eu governments who do not actually take the health of their citizens fully seriously. the most polluting cars must be cleared off our streets. in the long term, we must also have car-free zones. we must make it easier for people to get to work by bicycle, train and public transport. it is simply time to seriously accelerate the transition to renewable energy and sustainable transport. it's another to put the health and lives of our fellow man at risk.
in writing. the report on the definition of a union strategy on sustainable tourism lays the foundations for the recovery of the tourism sector after the severe impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the sector. i hope that the european commission, and especially the member states, will take our recommendations into account. it is essential that we insist on the need for member states to cooperate and adopt harmonized measures. so far we have only obtained recommendations from the commission and resolutions from parliament which are not binding. this can't go on. we need to give as much visibility as possible to this problem, which already affects thousands of families, smes and entrepreneurs. despite the fact that this is an area where the european union has little competence, i call for us to continue to press the member states to act together and save the tourism industry. coordination in anti-covid measures between member states was and is vital for our health, our economy, and of course for the tourism sector.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! tourism is a complex and comprehensive economic sector which contributes significantly to the level of development, economic and employment indicators of each member state and its regions. tourism is the daily livelihood of millions of micro, small and family businesses and we cannot afford to lose another tourist season to the pandemic. ensure the early re-launch of the tourism and hospitality industries. the best way to do this is to ensure adequate vaccination coverage across europe. the report recommends the introduction of various health and safety protocols to ensure that this year's tourist season can begin without any obstacles. it also proposes that tourism be a shared eu competence and initiates the creation of an eu tourism agency. of course, these initiatives may be partially justified, but they do not represent a real solution. effective tourism re-launch does not require a new agency or contract modification, which cannot contain the virus. the real solution is vaccination. unfortunately, vaccination is not progressing at the right pace across europe. and we all know the reason: the european commission has failed to provide enough vaccines, so i suggest that instead of bureaucratic half-measures, we focus on getting vaccinated and accelerating vaccination so that we can start this year's tourist season in a calm and safe way.
in writing. tourism is among the sectors hardest hit by the pandemic with some 6 million jobs at risk. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enif) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni). in addition, the eu should support member states' efforts to stimulate tourism and transport to minimise bankruptcies and preserve jobs. the pandemic has shifted travel demand and created new trends in destination choice, with health security and quality services now considered a priority. that is why we must invest in safe and clean travel. the digital green vaccination certificate is the answer. it was launched at the suggestion of the greek prime minister, kyriakos mitsotakis, and it was supported by the whole of europe. the urgent approval of the vaccination certificate by the plenary is expected to lead to the return of economic activity in the transport and tourism sectors, facilitating travel as an alternative to molecular testing and mandatory quarantine.
the following is an extract from the report by mrs danuta maria hübner on strengthening the international role of the euro [2020/2037(ini) ] (a9-0043/2021).
rapporteur. – madam president, in 20 years of its existence, the euro has become a positive symbol of europe’s unity, integration and economic strength. two-thirds of europeans see the euro as a good thing. the starting point for this report has been the observation that the international role of the european currency remains below its potential and that it is in our strategic interest to reap all possible benefits from a stronger role of the euro in the world. for far too long, the use of the position of the euro internationally was entirely left to market forces. recently we have realised that with supportive policies the euro can become a currency that is widely welcomed, used and trusted all over the world. geopolitical shifts and international trade challenges, including the disruption of value chains, technological developments, digital transformation, the rise of china’s economic power, geopolitical challenges to multilateralism, and last but not least the pandemic and its consequences, have triggered reflection and action on building the necessary resilience of our economy. the president of the european commission in his state of the union address at the end of 2018 highlighted the strategic importance of the euro, and the need to ensure that the single currency plays its full role on the international stage. after the elections in 2019, the european parliament accepted my proposal to start working on our position on this issue. the commission, in its communication issued on 19 january 2021, encourages wider use of the euro as part of a broader strategy to enhance the union’s leading role in the global economy and its governance. parliament’s report comes just before the euro summit on friday 26 march, set to discuss how to enhance the euro’s weight as an international reference currency. in preparation for the summit, the eurogroup contemplated last week how the international role of the euro can contribute to the eu’s open strategic autonomy and resilience, while boosting the eu’s openness and global engagement. the ecb too has departed from its historically neutral stance regarding promotion of the euro. beyond its active contributions to the discussions in preparation to launch the digital euro, the ecb has taken actions attesting its support for the euro currency’s international role. an example here can be the extension of swap lines to a number of central banks outside the euro area. the global nature and severity of the pandemic have highlighted the world’s interdependence, bringing new impetus to the project. the push for action towards a stronger international role of the euro comes in the moment of high relevance of policies enhancing the eu’s geopolitical resilience and its new trade agenda. but a stronger role for the euro internationally will also provide additional choice to market operators globally, contributing to the stability of international finance and trade. it will lead to deeper and more liquid european financial markets, providing for more reliable access to finance for european businesses and governments. it will make the world economy less vulnerable to monetary shocks. as mentioned, the european currency can facilitate building a multipolar, international monetary system. however, the decision to use a currency is ultimately determined by market participants’ preferences. our policies should be supporting market-driven shifts in this direction. the report proposes, in this context, focusing on a number of particularly relevant policies governing areas of international trade, financial services, capital markets and payment systems, but also climate change, the digital transformation, energy, and foreign and security policies. the report leaves no doubt: the euro is irreversible as a european currency and a strengthened international role will allow the eu to improve the well-being of citizens and promote an international system based on multilateral cooperation and good global governance.
member of the commission. – madam president, it’s my pleasure to address the house on the international role of the euro. the commission welcomes the report prepared by danuta hübner. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the significant work accomplished. this debate is very timely. tomorrow, the euro area leaders will discuss the same topic at the euro summit. as your report rightly points out, we have indeed witnessed an increasingly multipolar, geopolitical context over the last years. but the eu has the capacity to help shape the system of global economic governance. the eu has remained open to the rest of the world and continues to advocate for a rule—based multilateral system with well-functioning international financial markets and a more resilient and open global economy. in order to continue enjoying the benefits of our openness we have to make our economic and financial system even stronger and more resilient. for this purpose, the commission set out a dedicated strategy. the first key action that we set out in our communication is to further deepen economic and monetary union. your valuable report attaches great importance to strengthening our domestic capital market. indeed, completing banking union and making further significant progress on capital markets union are immediate steps to take. as you noted, we also need to ensure the swift and ambitious implementation of the reforms and investments embedded in the recovery and resilience facility to make the economy more resilient and inclusive, and a sustainable recovery and enhance economic resilience are preconditions for a strong international role of europe. we fully agree with you that the sizable issuance of euro-denominated bonds to finance next generation eu will help achieve these objectives. these bonds will add depth and liquidity to the debt securities market denominated in euro. next to this, the eu also needs to pursue other more targeted actions to strengthen the international role of the euro. this includes fostering the use of the euro in trade and in financial instruments, as well as in energy markets, consolidating the leading role of the euro as a denomination currency of sustainable finance products, conducting outreach to third-country partners to encourage a wider use of the euro, and cooperating with the ecb on the possible introduction of a digital euro. the second area of targeted action is on financial market infrastructures. we need to make sure that we are not over-reliant on third-country infrastructure, as the eu needs to be able to control potential risks to financial stability. we will also work to secure the uninterrupted flow of essential financial services between the eu and its trading partners, and to shield the legitimate operations of eu operators targeted by the extraterritorial application of third-country sanctions. the last pillar of our strategy relates to our sanctions policy. our institutions share the same approach. first, we need to ensure the uniform and effective implementation of eu sanctions across member states. in this regard we propose to better coordinate member states’ authorities and increase the flow of information among them and the commission. second, we need to continue to agree on legally binding provisions with partners implementing eu funds to ensure that eu funds and economic resources are not used in violation of eu sanctions. and third, we need to continue our work in promoting new and more effective tools to counter the extraterritorial application of non-eu sanctions. in parallel, we will continue with dialogue and cooperation with our international partners on sanctions which we believe is the most effective way of strengthening our sanctions policy and reducing the nefarious effects of the extraterritorial application of third-country sanctions. the areas of action that we are discussing today are of course interconnected and mutually reinforcing. we count on your support in carrying this work forward. the euro is the currency of the union. but it is more than just a currency. it’s a symbol of unity and prosperity of europeans. the euro is an attractive currency. that is also demonstrated by the efforts that bulgaria and croatia are making towards the adopting the euro. last summer the two countries joined erm ii. the commission counts on the european parliament’s cooperation in supporting bulgaria and croatia on the road to joining the euro area once the criteria are met.
the hearing is closed.
the next item is the report by mr tonino picula, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on cohesion policy and regional environmental strategies in the fight against climate change (a9-0034/2021) [2020/2074 (ini) ]
rapporteur. – madam president, the main idea of this report was to outline the necessary steps for transition towards a climate—neutral europe by 2050 from a regional perspective. with an approved budget of over eur 330 billion in the current programming period, cohesion policy is the biggest and most important investment tool in europe. as 30% of both the cohesion fund and european regional development fund (erdf) will need to be spent on projects for decarbonisation of our economy, cohesion policy has a crucial role in tackling climate change. this is a chance our regions cannot miss out on. the next 10 years will design the way forward and the political possibilities for the upcoming decades. on 28 november 2019, the european parliament called out a climate and environmental emergency. the european green deal and the commitment to a climate—neutral europe by 2050 will require far—reaching reform for its agricultural, trade, transport, energy and infrastructure-investment policies. the coming years are especially crucial as we currently have already 1.2°c more average global temperature compared with the pre—industrial levels. the 1.5°c goal of the paris agreement might be reached by the end of the year 2027, and therefore within the cohesion policy framework of the next seven years. an increase of 1.5°c is the maximum the planet can tolerate. should temperatures increase further beyond 2030 we will face even more droughts, floods, extreme heat, poverty for hundreds of millions of people and, of course, we may risk our long—term survival altogether. so how can our regions contribute to fighting climate change while using cohesion policy funds, and how can we best assist them? just a few examples: by ensuring greater coherence and coordination between cohesion policy and other eu policies while improving the implementation of climate policies on the ground; by enshrining the ‘do no significant harm’ principle for all investment; by supporting holistic regional environment strategies and civic engagement while relying on the robust research and innovation process; by underlining the strategic role of renewable, sustainable and decentralised energy in the development of the eu regions and their enterprises; by investing further in sustainable mobility and the strong involvement of micro-, small and medium—sized enterprises in the transition process; and by acknowledging the specificities and potential of different regions, such as islands, which have become the front-runners in energy transition. we call on the commission to monitor and publish reports using a common standard for all member states about the progress of national governments and local and regional authorities in addressing climate change at all levels. i would like to conclude with one message that was the leading thought of this report. climate change is not only a matter of the environment; it’s also a matter of economic and social change. economic, social and territorial cohesion means, in this regard, putting a special focus on three elements: territorial cohesion with an understanding of the different needs of eu regions; economic cohesion with sustainable growth and green jobs respecting the needs of the different sectors; social cohesion with a just transition, social fairness and an understanding of energy poverty and special needs. the transition towards climate neutrality can only be reached in a socially fair and just pathway forwards, leaving no one behind.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for the opportunity to discuss this important topic. the commission welcomes this own—initiative report on cohesion policy and regional environmental strategies in the fight against climate change. in the 2021—2027 programming period, cohesion policy will make a major contribution to the fight against climate change. some eur 69 billion will be devoted to climate—related intervention in 2021—2027. one of the five key policy objectives of cohesion policy, greener europe is dedicated to supporting a greener low—carbon transition towards a net zero—carbon economy. all cohesion investments will obey the ‘do no significant harm’ principle, in line with the european green deal, and all cohesion funds have ambitious and binding climate contribution targets, including 30% for the erdf and 37% for the cohesion fund. we will climate track all our investment based on oecd standards for assessing climate impact. the just transition fund will support those regions most exposed to transition challenges in all member states, alleviating the social and economic costs of transition towards a climate neutral economy. all levels of governance need to be mobilised, from the local level to the european – regions and cities are major players in our climate action. in fact, for all investments under the upcoming 2021—2027 programmes the commission is emphasising the importance of future—proof growth –‘building back better’. in the preparations and negotiations of the cohesion programmes in each member state we are urging more sustainable investments. at the local level, we are promoting smarter and greener technologies such as smart grids, renewable energy networks and the renovation wave. to build resilience, cohesion policy will help local and regional authorities in mitigating and adapting to climate change, insisting on respect of the partnership principle and in accordance with the multi—level governance approach involving urban and local authorities, economic and social partners, environmental partners and civil society. with a strong focus on climate objectives, targeted investments, leaving no region behind and active involvement at local and civil society level, cohesion policy will be an important ally in the fight against climate change for years to come. this effort, of course, does not start now. importantly, it is a key aspect of recovery. long—term recovery from the covid—19 crisis requires future—proof growth strategies supporting climate transition, phasing out reliance on fossil fuels and decarbonising industries. to ensure the recovery is sustainable, inclusive and fair, europe has put in place an unprecedented financial package of eur 1.8 trillion financed by next generation eu and the long—term eu budget. this is the most ambitious recovery plan that the eu has ever seen and it has one aim: to turn this immense challenge into an opportunity not only by supporting the recovery but also by investing in our future, the european green deal and digitalisation. with a dedicated instrument – react eu – of some eur 50 billion, financed from next generation eu, cohesion policy will also help a green and digital repair of the economy. now we must press ahead with programming. the new 2021—2027 cohesion programmes are in preparation, but this preparation must reach cruising speed so that programmes are ready in time. we need full mobilisation of all actors at all levels, and we are definitely counting on your support.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow, 25 march 2021. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
(having announced the results of the votes) before the first voting session today, which will take place at 11.00, i would like to give the floor to the commissioner, who will, in accordance with rule 163 (3) of the rules of procedure, table two requests for urgent procedure concerning the legislative files on digital green certificate union citizens, and digital green certificate third-country nationals; i now give the floor to commissioner dalli.
member of the commission. – madam president, on 17 march the european commission adopted a proposal for a regulation on a digital green certificate. this framework, once in place, will allow for the free movement of our citizens to gradually resume under safe conditions. it will allow for a consistent european approach to what you have always advocated in this house: a european solution to a european problem. yesterday’s debate on this proposal showed that we share a common ambition. we need to have this framework fully in place in june. we owe this to our union, to the citizens, to the businesses who have been asking for a safe return to normality. as you know, this is essential to put europe back on its feet and our economies out of this crisis and to allow people to look forward to travelling in summer. for this to be possible it is important that interinstitutional negotiations start straight away. it is with this concern in mind that the commission has requested the parliament to activate the urgent procedure. during yesterday’s debate, we heard some concerns by members of this house on the use of this procedure. these concerns stem from the fact that with this procedure there will be no vote on a report in the competent parliamentary committee. yet the whole parliament will be able to scrutinise the proposal within a time-frame of about a month and adopt its position in plenary before engaging in negotiations with the council. exceptional times call for exceptional measures and while we are called to work fast, it is important that the role of each institution is respected and that democratic scrutiny fully takes place. citizens are looking at us for responses, for solutions, for fast decisions. so, moving forward, let us confirm that the commission stands ready to provide its full support. we will act as an honest broker during the interinstitutional negotiations. in parallel we will support member states in developing the necessary technical infrastructure.
president of the libe commission. madam president, i spoke yesterday in the general debate on the presentation of this commission proposal for a green certificate. in other words, a single european health and immunological certificate, which will combat the current fragmentation which leads to discrimination with regard to the requirements which currently prevent free movement in the european union. the most valuable asset in the european construction. i raised the concerns of the committee i have the honour of chairing, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. it welcomes this initiative, welcomes the legal basis chosen, which is precisely the preservation of the free movement of persons, enshrined in articles 21 and 45 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and in article 45 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. because freedom of movement is indeed the first of the fundamental rights of europeans. and since the committee responsible is the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i said that a majority of coordinators are committed not only to welcoming this initiative but to giving it a chance through the accelerated procedure. but the commission is putting the article 163 urgency procedure to the vote in this european parliament. and the urgency procedure means that the urgency is voted on, a deadline for tabling amendments is immediately set in the same plenary session and the amendments are voted on. but immediately afterwards, as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i have the right and the duty to ask that the initiative be referred back to the committee responsible, which is the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, to ensure exactly the parliamentary procedure and the debate on the basis of the negotiating mandate with the council. the interinstitutional negotiating mandate means that it is the committee responsible which first decides on the outcome of the so-called 'trilogue', i.e. the negotiation with the council and the commission. and only after the vote in the committee responsible does it finally return for a vote in the plenary at first reading. this means sticking to the timetable. it is indeed possible to go on summer travel. and it is important that before the summer, the europeans who are watching us and whose hopes we represent in this parliament know that we are accelerating not only vaccination but also the restoration of free movement without discrimination; and that is why i stress the fundamental rights that are involved. the right to confidentiality of data, to privacy and to the principle of proportionality and necessity in the processing of data is strictly applied in this initiative. secondly, that it be applied uniformly throughout the european union. but thirdly, and most importantly, it must not be discriminatory, so that free movement is promoted but in no case is the green certificate required as a requirement, so that the green certificate helps free movement but neither prevents it nor hinders it.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on turkey's withdrawal from the istanbul convention (2021/2610 ((rsp)). i would remind the honourable members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, as in previous partsessions, remote interventions by parliament's liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, equality between men and women is inherent to human dignity. combating all forms of violence against women and girls is a core element of respect for fundamental rights. on turkey’s decision to withdraw from the istanbul convention, i would like to underline the statement issued by the high representative last saturday. he deeply regretted the decision by the turkish government to withdraw from the convention, the first international legally binding instrument aiming at ensuring essential legal protection for women and girls across the world. the decision is a huge setback, all the more as turkey was the first country to sign this landmark treaty. mr borrell also noted that this comes at a moment when violence against women has increased to new levels worldwide as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. a step backwards which sends a very dangerous message. i would like to recall that on monday, the council on foreign affairs met here in brussels and the ministers discussed the situation in turkey on the basis of the report presented by the high representative. the question of the convention was highlighted by several member states. on the following day, i had the honour of chairing the vtc meeting of ministers of european affairs, where we also had a discussion on turkey’s withdrawal from the convention. and once again many ministers echoed the high representative’s words of regret. we have seen the reaction in turkey as well as international reactions, including from the leaders of the council of europe. the presidency, as many others, consider this a regrettable and grave matter in itself and because it’s also combined with other setbacks on turkey’s obligations to respect democracy and the rule of law. these and other recent developments will also certainly be part of the leaders’ discussion on turkey today. honourable members, as president von der leyen said, violence against women is not tolerable. women deserve a strong legal framework to protect them. the council has consistently called for increased efforts to ensure gender equality and respect for human rights. the union is redoubling its efforts to defend the rights of women and girls as fundamental elements of human rights and equality. in this context, let me reiterate the presidency’s attachment to the istanbul convention and say that combating violence against women features prominently on the agenda of the portuguese presidency and of the relevant council bodies. this year, as we mark the 10th anniversary of the istanbul convention, on this occasion the presidency will organise on 6 april a high-level conference with the german presidency of the council of europe committee of ministers. the council has repeatedly called on the member states that have not done so to ratify the istanbul convention. the presidency will continue in any possible way to work towards the conclusion of this important instrument within the legal framework set by the treaties and pending the european court of justice’s opinion requested by this parliament. dear honourable members, we are only a few days away from 8 march and we have often debated women’s rights in this chamber. only last month we were discussing the 25th anniversary of the beijing declaration and its platform of action. much progress has been made over the past decades, to the benefit of women and girls in the union and across the world. however, as we see every day, many challenges remain, and we must keep on fighting for women’s rights and combating violence against women. we have to do this all together.
member of the commission. – madam president, the istanbul convention is a landmark treaty of the council of europe and the most comprehensive and effective legally binding instrument at international level to combat violence against women and domestic violence. its aim – its only aim, i would say – is to ensure that violence is prevented, victims are protected and perpetrators are prosecuted. the commission is fully committed to eradicate violence against women in the eu and outside its borders because violence against women is never justified. it’s just not acceptable that women and girls are afraid or need to be cautious when walking down the street. we cannot look away when we know or suspect violence in the house next door. women and girls should live free from violence and have a strong legal framework to protect them. this is why the eu signed the istanbul convention and why the commission is pushing for eu accession. as you know there are hurdles in the council, and thus to ensure we do have a comprehensive legal framework, the commission is preparing a legislative proposal to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence. we are planning to present this by the end of this year. we are hearing more and more dissenting voices on the importance and the aim of the istanbul convention, not only outside but also inside the european union. the convention is based on the understanding that violence against women and domestic violence are not private or family matters, but criminal behaviour. consequently, politicians need to ensure it is a criminal offence in national law for which there should never be impunity. this approach requires measures for the prevention of crime, the protection of victims and the prosecution of perpetrators. it also requires practical measures that contribute to an overall effort for better policies, services and discourse around the violence that women and girls experience so that awareness is raised, mentalities are changed and women are supported and empowered. i stress that the aim of those measures is prevention, and that the convention is based on the premise that violence against women cannot be eradicated without investing in gender equality. that is what the convention is about and what it aims for. there are no other hidden motives. turkey’s decision to withdraw from the convention sends a regrettable signal at a bad moment. it risks compromising the protection and fundamental rights of women and girls in turkey with devastating effects on its entire society at a time when this protection is needed more than ever. the high representative/vice—president borrell was very clear on this in his statement issued in immediate reaction to this news. this is a wrong step from turkey, a country that hosted the convention in the first place. it is a huge setback to efforts made in the country in recent years and sends a dangerous message across the world. we therefore cannot but urge turkey to reverse its decision. turkey should fully commit to defending the rights of women and girls, a fundamental element of human rights, peace, security and equality. now, more than ever, it is essential that state parties, both in the european union and outside, stand by the standards of the istanbul convention as a source of guidance for action. now, especially at this point in time, is the moment to show leadership and enhance global efforts to fight violence against women and girls, and not to retreat. this is why we deeply regret the decision of the turkish government to withdraw from the convention that even bears the name of istanbul, and turkey was the first country to ratify it. the lives and health of women and girls are at stake and we need to stand by all women and girls.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, madam minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, four hundred women have been killed in turkey since 2018 by their husbands, victims of gender-based violence, or by their fathers and brothers, victims of honour killings. it is untenable, unacceptable and shameful what mr erdogan's government is doing today. in this attack on europe, it is again using women as a bargaining chip because it is always we who have to pay for the broken dishes and it is always women who have to suffer the attacks on fundamental rights, in a decision which is also contrary to the turkish constitution itself. there's an involution all over the world. women's rights have no boundaries. we have received reports that the polish government will decide to do the same in the coming days. and one might ask what the turkish government and the polish government have in common: their allergy and hatred of women. and here is a parliament that is going to raise its voice to say that we are not going to allow that.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, this decision by the turkish government is indeed a devastating decision. it sends a terrible message, a terrible message to turkish women: to the 40% of turkish women who suffer gender-based violence; to the more than 300 women who have been victims, who have been murdered, although this figure is small because the turkish government tells us that many of these women have committed suicide. it's a clear disregard for his life, it's a clear message of "we don't care about you". that is why today this european parliament must send the opposite message: we care, we care very much. and we have to tell turkey that it must withdraw its decision and implement the convention. but, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened in the nine years since turkey signed the convention and erdogan withdrew? a lot has happened: a deterioration of human rights in this country, day by day; a great sectarianism; a departure from the values of what europe means. and finally, the ceding of women's liberties and rights to the more conservative and radical groups. ladies and gentlemen, this is how dictatorships are built. this is how democracies die, with the decree-based transfer of the rights and freedoms of all to conservative, radical and ultra-conservative groups. and that's why this fight - the istanbul convention - is the fight of all democrats. the fight for the rights of women and girls in turkey, ladies and gentlemen, and also here in the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. the ecr is opposed to all violence. we are concerned to hear reports from turkey that violence against women is still taking place there, especially so-called honour killings. but this cannot be linked solely to the withdrawal of the istanbul convention. note the data from the associations that monitor women's rights in turkey: in 2019, there were 474 murders of women, twice as many as in 2011, and yet the istanbul convention was in force all these years, which proved to be completely ineffective. today, commissioner dalli says that the istanbul convention is the most effective instrument against violence. you have got to be kidding me! the european union signed the istanbul convention, and it is in the european union that female genital mutilation continues. it is in the european union that little girls are still forced into marriages with grown men. do you want to talk about child trafficking, about surrogacy? we have a lot of work to do here in the european union, and the istanbul convention doesn't work because it's being undermined by left-wing, ideological... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i would like to thank you. abuse, rape, sexual assault, murder and stalking - these are crimes that affect millions of women every day. murder and these crimes are committed by their partner. these are crimes that sometimes are never investigated or taken seriously. in europe, one in three women have been or are affected by this, and the coronavirus pandemic has worsened the situation considerably. in turkey, it's even worse. about four out of ten women have been victims of violence. when things can't get any worse, the turkish government announces that it is withdrawing from the istanbul convention, which guarantees legal protection for women who are victims of violence and prosecutes perpetrators. this is ten years after turkey acceded to the istanbul convention in istanbul. this is a scandal. it's a huge setback for women's freedom from violence. it is a huge setback for women's basic human rights. the massive condemnation we have now seen from the eu, the council of europe and the united states must be followed by clear demands in our relations with turkey that we will not tolerate this and that turkey must return to the istanbul convention. i sincerely hope that this debate will lead to increased pressure on both the eu leaders and turkey. as the european parliament's responsible for the istanbul convention, i see that this is a work in the wind, where women's fundamental rights are being challenged. this is a fight that the eu must wage much harder. this is the new freedom issue of our time, namely to stand up for the basic human rights of women.
madam president, the council, the commission! we have a convention to combat violence against women, named after a city where fighting violence against women is no longer important. it may seem obvious that every human being should have the right to live his life free from violence, but that is not the case in turkey. turkey's actions are an attack on women's human rights, democracy and the rule of law. women are being raped, and women are being murdered. we social democrats in this parliament have clearly condemned turkey's decision, and today we expect the eu member states to do the same. let the istanbul convention be a reminder that we must never, ever accept attacks on girls and women. it's their lives we're talking about.
mr president, i would like to thank you. you guys! all too often, we have seen cyber-surveillance technologies exported from the eu to repressive regimes - to countries that use them to spy on and control their own citizens, journalists and human rights defenders. this has to stop. the eu is now strengthening its export regulations for dual-use goods. it is necessary, and this parliament has been pushing for it. it is clear that the work on new legislation can be difficult to keep up with technological developments. but this is a policy in the right direction. human rights and freedoms should be the guiding light of the eu. we will stand up for those who have the least freedom and never side with the oppressors. this is an example of where the eu is really on the right side.
madam president, i would like to thank you. president von der leyen, president michel! i would like to thank you for your work. i also want to talk about turkey. i want to talk about the disrespect and the inaction that our president, von der leyen, has had to endure. i'm upset, but i'm not surprised. first of all: it is totally unacceptable that turkey and president erdogan are violating women's rights, most recently by withdrawing from the istanbul convention. but second of all: it is completely disrespectful that the president of the european commission, von der leyen, in an official context, in front of the cameras of the whole world, in 2021, should have to experience that two men of power - president erdogan and president michel - take their seats on the two chairs that were presented, and one is left alone. we - all women - have at some point experienced that feeling. we know exactly what that feels like. so who here seriously believes that in a summit with three men, you would have put two chairs? that is precisely what happened to our first woman in the leading position of president of the commission. it's a shame, you know? so, thirdly, i want to say: that's enough! we have a new gender equality strategy to achieve a europe where women and men, girls and boys in all their diversity, are equal. let's start working on it now. no more "sofagate", please!
madam president, president michel you were on an official visit to turkey together with the president of the european commission. rule number one when representing the european union on the world stage is unity. and the biggest responsibility for the unity of the european union lies always with the president of the european council. it is in the job description of the president of the european council to realise consensus internally and then to present a united and strong position to the outside world. rule number two: we never give up the interests of the european union for a picture with a dictator. the european union’s interests have to be represented clearly and strongly in every situation, even when that is comfortable. and the question now is what are the priorities of the european union in its relations with turkey and how can we manage to achieve them? and i say very clearly, priority number one has to be human rights. human rights are the basis of the european union as we know it. this is why we have to defend human rights in every context. turkey’s recent track record on human rights is deplorable. the message to turkey needs to be clear: no business as usual as long as human rights are not respected, as long as gender equality is not respected, freedom of speech, freedom of the press and rule of law. and priority number 2 for our relations with turkey is that eu member states are respected. we have to condemn the repeated unilateral actions of turkey against cyprus and greek waters together and with a strong voice.
before we continue with the debates, i will open today's voting session. we will vote on the files as indicated in the agenda. the session will be open from 18. 30 to 19. 45. the the voting will be conducted in accordance with the same method as in previous partsessions. for votes on immunities, the vote shall be by secret ballot. members will be able to cast their votes in the usual way but the ballot paper they receive for signature will not show how they voted, but only the fact that they voted. all other votes will be by roll call. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, explanations of vote of up to 400 words will be accepted. i hereby declare the voting session open. you have up to 19. 45 to vote and the results of the votes will be announced tomorrow at 09. 00 other
we now continue our debate on: - the statements of the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 25 and 26 march 2021 (resp) and the statements of the european council and the commission on the outcome of the eu-turkey high-level meeting of 6 april (resp)
madam president, i would like to thank you. madam president, president charles michel, i would like to thank you for your reply. president erdogan of turkey is pursuing a strategic work against human rights and the rule of law. he has decided that turkey should withdraw from the international joint work against men's violence against women. in other words, he wants to make the situation worse for the hundreds of thousands of women in turkey who are beaten, raped and killed by men in their vicinity every year. it is only when men also take the fight for freedom for all and for women's rights in general, and give them a seat at the negotiating table, that we can bring about change. and only then can we cooperate with turkey.
madam president, mr charles michel, you had an opportunity today to say that the sofa gate was a mistake on my part and i apologize to the european parliament for this mistake, to the european citizens, to the members of the european parliament, to the president of the commission. you had a chance and you missed it. because we all experienced the sofa gate as a humiliating image for both women and european leadership and european citizens, from a leader, mr erdoğan, who writes in his old shoes and human rights and women's rights and the rule of law and everything and is interested in business and equipment, while exploiting european leadership by playing the role of subcontractor, threatening to play with the refugee flows. the european parliament has prepared a report, and we will adopt it by an overwhelming majority, in which it asks you, mrs von der leyen, and the commission, and the council, to make respect for the rule of law and human rights and democracy and women's rights not just a priority but a necessary condition for the existence of the positive agenda and the discussions on economic cooperation, on improving the customs union and so on. that's the gist of it. listen to the voice of the european parliament and act on the insult you have received from mr erdoğan.
madam president, i would like to thank president von der leyen for her brave speech. it reflects our commitment to gender equality. what happened in ankara is very serious. it affects the dignity of our institutions. what president erdoğan did should not surprise anyone. as manfred weber has pointed out, erdoğan’s turkey has no place in the european union. but the most embarrassing moment was charles michel’s lack of judgement. he should never have accepted that chair, leaving president von der leyen on her feet. the result of the institutional zeal of charles michel was this terrible example of macho culture: men first. let’s be clear. president von der leyen was left without a chair, not because she is the president of the commission, but because she is a woman. while it’s true that we are 31 institutions making foreign policy at the same time – 27 governments, the council, the commission, the high representative and sometimes this parliament too – this is not foreign policy, this is a madhouse. however, this is not the worst. the worst is that we are going around the world lecturing others about gender equality when the truth is that we have many lessons to learn.
madam president, i would like to say to you, president michel, that you were not up to the task on your recent visit to ankara. no matter the problems that the protocol created, you don’t blame them on the teams. it was your responsibility not to allow the president of the commission to be humiliated in that room. you missed a unique opportunity to stand up in turkey for human rights and to defend the integrity of the institutions of the european union. let’s be clear: nobody – nobody – would have dared to do that to president juncker, yet it happened because president von der leyen is a woman, as she very rightly said. and i think, president michel, that your clumsy excuses which, by the way, i have to tell you came too late, also showed that you were not really aware of the seriousness of the event. you came today and you made a very nice speech about that. now you will take seriously the gender equality agenda. we will follow the words and we will make you accountable for that. we really want the council to unblock many of the things that have been blocked for years, not only the directive on women on boards, but also the ratification of the istanbul convention and many other issues that the council has been blocking for many, many years.
madam president, i am well aware of the fact that the eu cannot deal with erdoğan. it has shown this completely. the so—called sofagate was a simple but diligent slap in the face of the european union. when you allow a neo—ottomanistic dictator to call the shots, this is what you get. the simple truth is that radical islam does not care about women’s rights at all, and we know that perfectly well. sofagate shows us the full hypocrisy of the widespread istanbul convention propaganda. president michel, your behaviour shows two things: for sure, you were not quite the gentleman there, and for sure you showed us the political bravery and courage more appropriate of a fluffy bunny than for a leader of the european union. instead of standing up in front of erdoğan and defending the lady in the room, you did nothing and were humiliated – quite a fitting metaphor for the eu’s policy towards turkey. this is what happens when you do not act, when you are being blackmailed. this is what happens when you don’t respond to aggression in the mediterranean. this is what happens when you try to negotiate with terrorists and dictators. we cannot afford to have a neo—ottomanistic dictatorship intervening at every level in our neighbourhood, and most certainly we cannot have a dictatorship that can ever become a full member of the european union. no to this turkey in the european union.
madam president, mrs von der leyen, mr michel, we have repeatedly denounced the double standard of the european union with regimes such as mr erdoğan's. the treatment of president von der leyen was a disgrace to all of europe, and it is clear that we are all ursula today. i'm with you. but let me ask you a few questions, mr michel, mrs von der leyen. what will happen when the european union is invited to sit on a sofa where there is no room for human rights? let us say a sofa in which human rights are treated the same as mrs von der leyen has just been treated? if the european union always reacts with the same attitude to threats against human rights, if it is only capable of being outraged by an image that is certainly shameful, but on the other hand remains weak in the face of the serious violations committed by erdoğan against the kurds, against dissidents, then today's indignation will not have done much good.
madam president, presidents of the commission and the council, i welcome the council’s latest conclusions, particularly concerning the future strengthening of transatlantic relations, the actions to accelerate the vaccination process, and the combination of events in the eastern mediterranean in the context of relations with turkey. however, the essence of this debate is to indicate something else and that is the relationship between the european institutions and their capacity to work together. the own representative image of the european union in ankara occurred in the worst circumstances. in a country that has just withdrawn from the istanbul convention, this unfortunately highlighted an already existing crisis of the european project which has become more visible at the time of the pandemic. this incident is not a cause but the consequence of the problem. we ought to address internal tensions in order to be able to respond to global challenges and lead efforts to resolve them. mistakes of the protocol services are not and cannot remain the only answer.
madam president, it was a very complicated visit; you should have prepared better. in a context of direct aggression in the mediterranean, withdrawal from the istanbul convention, violation of human rights, democratic backsliding and announcement of the outlawing of political parties, president erdoğan decided to provoke 'ridicule' and, in a gesture that shows the most retrograde and macho face of his regime, tried to offend women and offend the european union, which we represent. because if you offend the commission, you offend the european union, and if you offend the council, you offend the european union. that is why that meeting should never have started until the commission had its chair. i think, mr. president, that you shouldn't have sat down. but i would like to express my appreciation to you, madam president, for not standing up when the meeting began. it was a gesture of dignity, of strength: the strength of democrats who, in difficult situations, do not rise. they're still sitting around, having a conversation. because we must continue to dialogue with turkey, precisely to defend human rights and women's rights.
madam president, president von der leyen, president michel, one thing should be very clear after the ankara visit. this must be the last time that we accept president erdoğan’s power play. european leadership needs to be crystal clear. we will always stand up for our friends in greece and cyprus. we will always stand up for human rights and, yes, we will always stand up for – and demand – respect for our president of the commission. thank you ursula von der leyen for your speech today. you not only have our respect but you have our full support. at the same time concerning turkey, it is clear that we need to build something new. turkey should never become a member of the european union, but it is our neighbour. we need to build a long-term partnership on sensitive but important questions like migration, economy and security. so let’s take this visit and all the problems that it brought with it to the table, and also because of our own wrongdoing, let’s build something new. but we must never again accept president erdoğan’s power play.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is easy to be pro-european, to defend not just the possibility but the right to travel, work, shop, study - yes, simply live - wherever you want within the european union. brexit is a warning example of what happens when national politicians blame their own failings on the eu and a reminder that european cooperation and freedom must be defended. it's only when you no longer have all the freedoms that you fully appreciate them. it is good that the eu and the uk have now agreed on a far-reaching trade agreement that sets the stage for continued close cooperation and trade. but you can't have your cake and eat it too. i want to remind you that brexit means more bureaucracy, more forms, more hassle, more obstacles and increasing detail control, simply more of all the things that we liberals want to get rid of. something that affects both individuals and companies both in the uk and the eu and not least sweden, my own country. we are now beginning to get used to an eu without the uk. now begins a new chapter in our shared history. we liberals will continue to work to ensure that people and businesses in and outside the uk are not affected by brexit, but are a natural part of a free europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. brexit is a tragedy and at the same time a legacy - let's be honest - that we have inherited from the generation before us in politics. the reasons for brexit are not only in london, they are also in brussels. and now it's our generation's responsibility to do what? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. why would you do that? because we, as europe, are better off on this planet if we stick together, regardless of who makes up the eu member states. it is a great responsibility to ensure that europeans are at the forefront of the economy, but also of security and freedom. media freedom is at the forefront of attention at a time when it is under attack from within the european union, but also from outside. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the economy has been the subject of much discussion, and rightly so. and it's also obvious that even more than we need the island, the island needs us. but in terms of security, military, police and intelligence, we also need the island very much on the continent, europe needs cohesion, independently of eu membership. this is what we must achieve now, after years of wrangling over the withdrawal agreement: that we come to a new understanding of each other, also a new language, also a new understanding of what belongs to europe and that is not only the united kingdom and northern ireland, but also other countries that belong to europe but are not yet eu member states.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the uk's withdrawal from the european union has created a lot of uncertainty in recent years, both for businesses and for citizens. that is why it is good that today we have an agreement in place. i see this agreement as a guarantee that we will be able to continue to maintain a close relationship and good cooperation with the united kingdom. as the head of the transport committee, it is extremely important to me that we have an agreement in place that ensures continued good transport links between the eu and the uk, while at the same time we have managed to put in place rules that guarantee fair competition for all workers working in the transport sector across europe. we will not compete with low wages and poor working conditions in the eu, and neither will our partners. the single most positive thing in this eight-year tragedy of brexit has been our ability to hold together in the eu. as we implement and enforce the agreement, it is equally important that we continue to stick together. there is every reason to be concerned about the way in which boris johnson and the british government appear to be behaving towards international law and treaties. it is important that we avoid a situation where the uk is slowly, bit by bit, succeeding in changing the agreement because each individual issue is so small that we do not choose to take that particular battle. we must remember that it is the drop that carves the stone. i would like to stress in particular the importance of the trade union organisations being involved in the monitoring and implementation of the agreement. the resolution stresses that the trade unions should be able to lodge complaints about the implementation and that the commission should be obliged to take action. this will be very important for the implementation of the agreement and for ensuring good working conditions on both sides of the channel.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today we have come to the end of a journey that i had hoped we would never have to make. but brexit is a fact and our british friends have left us. we must now continue to give our all to ensure that we have as close a relationship as possible, for the sake of our companies and our citizens. the eu-uk cooperation agreement is not perfect, but it is as good as it gets at the moment. the british have expressed their desire to create a singapore on the thames, i.e. to change their regulatory framework in order to attract investment and talent and increase their competitiveness. we, in turn, have invested a great deal of time, effort and energy in ensuring that the british do not deviate from the european regulatory framework and thus compete with our companies. i am not entirely sure that this is the right way to go, because the global competition is not coming from the uk alone. we must rather ensure that we have a regulatory framework and a business climate that creates growth across europe. we need to look at why we're losing growth relative to other major economies. it is therefore gratifying that commissioner šefčovič, as commissioner responsible, is presenting today the commission's initiative on better regulation. i hope that it will be a step towards greater competitiveness, more jobs, more growth and more prosperity for europeans. in the light of all this, i would like to know how the commission plans to create the best possible conditions for european companies, which are now facing new barriers to trade with the uk, but also how it will continue to work on, for example, services trade and, not least, how the business climate across europe will be improved in general. in conclusion, a big thank you to michel barnier for his fine work.
for the ecr group. president. - the debate is closed. within the budget of the eu institute for gender equality, the eu wants to increase gender equality by introducing a so-called gender perspective in all eu policies. whatever the field - trade, forestry, family issues - equality, as defined by the radical left, must be enforced. power shall be distributed through the system of electoral quotas. private companies will be forced to report salaries and to have a quota of women on the board. parental leave, social security systems, digital platforms, even personal values are being regulated from brussels. national self-determination, private property, individual freedom and the swedish labour market model are likely to be a thing of the past, because what the eu wants today is neither freedom, equality nor competitiveness. it's forced outcomes and a centralization of power. in the heyday of communism, it was done in the name of the working class and the proletariat. today, the eu is doing so in the name of climate and gender equality. that's got to be enough.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner reynders, this is the commissioner. my colleagues! i want to start where a lot of people end, thanking you for your trust. it's a big deal to be the chief negotiator for the whole parliament. it is an even greater thing to negotiate a historic sum for the fight for freedom and justice, knowing that there are many of us who want the same thing. so, from the bottom of my heart, a big thank you to my co-rapporteurs sirpa pietikäinen from the committee on gender equality, łukasz kohut from the committee on culture! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. your combined expertise and passionate commitment to human rights and the fundamental values of our union have made a difference. finally, we adopt the rights and values programme in the framework of the long-term eu budget 20212027. i am extremely proud of the 1.55 billion euros we have negotiated. we have managed to double the eu funding to civil society. this programme is one of the most important tools we have to strengthen and defend our democracies, our rights and the fundamental values of the union. in the best of worlds, we would not have to devote resources to defending these values. but in our union, the media is shut down and censored, journalists are killed, lgbtq-free zones are established, trans people are threatened and killed, funding for free research in universities is eroded and judges are appointed and controlled by the sitting government. this is a very serious development which must be met with force and determination. the rule of law is not negotiable. it is a cornerstone of our democratic system and a pillar of the rights and values agenda. with this programme, we are strengthening and protecting the rule of law, democracy, the participation of citizens in the development of society and the equal value of all in the eu. so what does this program mean in practical terms? what difference can funding and distribution make to people in their everyday lives? for those women who live in a reality where the government's value-conservative ideologies outweigh women's right to decide about their own bodies, it can help mobilize and change. every day, women are beaten, raped and killed by men close to them. every year in the eu, 3 500 women are killed by men in close relationships. the fact that women are killed by men year after year is like a chronic disease that must be eradicated and something that the eu must never accept as normal. that is why it is a great victory that we have for the first time managed to allocate eur 140 million to work to combat male violence against women. the money will support organisations across the eu that fight for women's rights and against violence against men. ultimately, it is about fighting destructive male norms and values that are contrary to the treaties on equality and the right to freedom. this money will also save lives in the member states that tried to stop the programme. for lgbtq people, the rights and values programme will also make a difference. we know that the right to live in freedom and freedom from oppression is limited when anti-lgbtq policies take hold. we know that discrimination has increased and we know that so-called lgbtq-free zones are expanding. as the hatred and threats against lgbtq people grow, we see the space for civil society to be a counterforce shrink. this is in direct contradiction to what we have agreed in the eu treaties. not so long ago, we made history by declaring the whole of the eu a free zone for lgbtq people. it was beautiful words on paper. now we're going from words to action. racism in all its forms - anti-semitism, anti-gypsyism, islamophobia, afro-phobia and racism against the indigenous sami people - is in our midst and leads to discrimination and inequality. racism is a barrier to human potential and causes enormous losses in human suffering and power for the eu member states when we do not take advantage of people's experience and skills. discrimination is a manifestation of destructive incompetence. the eu should not just condemn racism. the eu should be an anti-racist force. it takes organization. now we have made sure that there is money for this fight as well. the negotiations were tough, but it feels very good that there was a great deal of agreement among the eu member states: 25 out of 27 supported what we have reached. only poland and hungary were against. fortunately, we have ensured a simplified application procedure and funds can be requested directly from the fund, without the blessing of individual governments and state authorities. i want to end like i started: thank you to all the civil society organisations who have come forward with suggestions and inspiration! thank you to former mep bodil valero, who started the work during the last term! i thank the german presidency, which was an ideological party to the negotiations! thank you to commissioner reynders and his team for the result you are now part of, and again, thank you to colleagues from right to left! you have given me hope of a light beyond the horizon.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the pandemic is far from over. i understand that people are getting tired of all the restrictions. so it is gratifying to see the number of vaccinated people growing week by week. i also welcome the commission's proposal for a common certificate. i prefer to call these certificates the eu covid certificates, which is exactly what they are supposed to be for. these certificates should be easy to obtain and easy to use, they should respect fundamental values such as privacy and data protection and they should be free of charge for our citizens. and they are, of course, supposed to facilitate free movement. hopefully we can soon start opening up to travel, both business and leisure, and i look forward to having a common eu covid certificate by the summer that all member states will support. it is about the ability of all eu citizens to move across borders for work, family or leisure. for my part, i look forward to taking my family to my neighbouring country, denmark, this summer.
madam president, i would like to thank you. pecunia non olet, money doesn't stink, thought the roman emperor, and he imposed a tax on dirty public toilets. he did not do so to improve or bring about social change, but because he needed more money. the eu digital tax follows the same pattern. the eu has been creative in its search for its own resources. they want a tax on plastic bags, imported merchandise and now a digital tax. it might as well be a treasure of hats, horses, or, well, opinions. the crucial point is that they want the money to go directly from the taxpayers to brussels. this is to gradually reduce dependence on membership fees from the member states and thus also reduce the influence of citizens on policy. fundamental changes in the eu require two things: a crisis and a unity between germany and france. we can now see that the pandemic has not only taken human lives; it has also given us citizens common debts, and even less to speak of. the roman emperor was wrong about one thing: pecunia olet.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! what else needs to happen for eu policy towards russia to be effective? because, as of now, it's full of phrases, exaltations and, de facto, helpless as the high representative in moscow. it's time to do something. it's time to take action, and we're still here debating what putin should do. the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that putin will not care one bit about what we tell him to do. it is the european union that should take concrete action. what kind of things? first of all, block russia's access to the swift banking system and, above all, take effective measures to stop the implementation of the political project nord stream 2. otherwise we can say that the eu policy is completely ineffective, helpless against russia, and that the eu solidarity has been buried with nord stream 2 at the bottom of the baltic sea.
madam president, two months ago we were condemning mr putin for his provocations and disrespect towards the european union; for his repression and aggression towards his own people; for the brutal persecution of oppositionists and especially of alexei navalny. now we face another bold attack of russian intelligence on european soil: an attack on the entire european union. two months ago in this very place i said ‘we shall never surrender’. now i shall repeat to mr putin: the european union will never give in on our continent’s freedom and democracy. we will never give in to tyranny. europe and the member states cannot let another attack on europe pass unscathed. putin and his regime must understand that actions have consequences. europe must show to the brave russian people and to the oppositionists that we stand beside them in their fight for democracy and for the rule of law. we must do our very best to support independent civil society, while at the same time, mr borrell, we sanction the ones that are responsible for these actions.
madam president, i would say to the high representative that we are witnessing once again that the aggression of the kremlin knows no limits. there is the russian annexation of crimea and the growing threats to ukraine in general, with a military build—up at the border. there is the unlawful and hideous treatment of alexei navalny. there is the attack in the czech republic linked directly to the russian state. now the eu must show strong support for the ukrainian people and not let the russian offensive continue. we must call for the immediate release of mr navalny and support the democratic movement in russia. an attack on one member state is an attack on all of us and it cannot go unpunished. the eu must never again be naive regarding putin’s regime. we need to get a clear commitment from the commission as to no repetition of the wrong—doing and embarrassment in moscow. further and concrete actions against russia are needed. now is the time to move ahead.
for the ecr group. president. - the debate is closed. tonight, swedish state television is chinese communist propaganda at prime time: 30 minutes with beijing's ambassador in stockholm an example of everything that is wrong in europe's relationship with china. our market is open to china, but access to the chinese market requires that we divest our intellectual property and accept their market manipulation. chinese officials are free to criticize us. at the same time, they are subjecting our politicians and journalists to sanctions and threats. the chinese ambassador is invited to join the swedish public service. but our ambassadors' debates in china are censored by the communist party, while the eu is bowing and scraping. ylva johansson, you are representing the commission here today. i have a few words of wisdom i'd like to pass along: a concessionary is someone who feeds a dragon in the hope that it will eat him last. i paraphrased winston churchill.
madam president, i would like to thank you. china is the world's largest dictatorship. human rights are violated every day. swedish book publisher gui minhai has been illegally imprisoned in china since 2015. controls on hong kong and tibet are tightened and the tone against taiwan is raised. the eu was right to impose so-called magnitsky sanctions on those responsible for the repression of the uyghurs in xinjiang. the fact that china then responds with sanctions against european politicians, researchers and institutions - including us, who sit on the european parliament's subcommittee on human rights - shows that our work is effective. now europe must continue to provide support, show solidarity and continue to use sanctions when human rights violations are committed. there's no room for any kind of shenanigans with china. gui minhai must be released.
madam president, the eu sanctions on chinese officials and economic interests connected to the persecution of uyghurs, kazakhs and other muslim groups in the xinjiang province was just and appropriate. no one should be met with impunity or a lack of consequences when violating human rights. the chinese regime counter—sanctions, on the other hand, were ridiculous and don’t do anything else than block further dialogue. among the ten names who are targeted by the chinese sanctions, five are fellow meps, three are national parliamentarians of eu member states, and two are scholars – one from germany and the other from sweden. their only crime was to defend human rights in china. in my own country, sweden, the chinese ambassador has even repeatedly threatened journalists and big news outlets for their reporting on the human rights abuses in china. this is ridiculous and not acceptable. i therefore call on all of us to do more to highlight the situation in xinjiang and the whole of china and to stand united against threats, both within europe and in the whole world.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the regulation on the prevention of the dissemination of terrorist content online is eu policy at its most important. terrorism must be crushed wherever it shows its ugly face, regardless of ideological or religious affiliation. it's about defending human life and defending our democracy and our open society. we must fight it together, because common problems can only be eliminated together. i would like to thank commissioner ylva johansson, the rapporteur of the european parliament and the shadow rapporteurs for their important work. right-wing extremism and radical islamic terrorism seem to be competing today for the worst, and they use the internet as a tool to spread their abhorrent ideology: terrorism. the end of the wild west online. the commission should also be able to provide the member states with the necessary information to enable them to take appropriate measures to prevent the proliferation of terrorist content. we need to stop the radicalization of the internet. anything that comes up, you take it down immediately. but we must of course do so with respect for privacy and freedom of speech, art, satire and journalism, as the proposal is clear on this. we are now stepping up our work against terrorism and for democracy and human rights. now we step up our work in defense of our democracy.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. first of all, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for all the work he has done. if we are to transform the transport sector and meet our climate goals, it is important that we make rail travel more attractive. that is why it is gratifying that today we have an agreement in place which will facilitate rail travel within the european union. the proposal provides rail passengers with a guarantee of an alternative route in the event of delays or cancellations and ensures improved access to assistance for persons with reduced mobility. the new requirements we are getting in place for the exchange of train data are an important step towards the realisation of a common ticketing system in the eu. we will need to continue to work on creating a functioning multimodal ticketing system and tickets that guarantee that the passenger will reach his final destination even if the journey is made by different train operators. but the decision we are taking today is a big step in the right direction and a strengthening of the rights of european rail passengers.
madam president, i would like to thank you. a report on child poverty by save the children quotes a 15-year-old boy. he says, i think about our situation quite often, even in class, and then i get lost in thought and i miss what they've been talking about. and sometimes i don't keep up with schoolwork because of our situation. the prerequisites for good health, successful schooling and meaningful leisure are much worse for children growing up in economic deprivation. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. this is completely unacceptable. child poverty affects the child's childhood and risks affecting the children's lives in the long term and also having consequences for society. that is why i welcome the child guarantee, which gives us the opportunity to promote children's rights in the eu.
author. – mr president, let us be clear: blasphemy laws are relics from a medieval past and have no place in our modern world. these laws are way too often misused to settle personal scores, with devastating consequences for those who are accused. in pakistan today, blasphemy laws and the potential consequences of speaking out, or just being misunderstood, are leading to capital punishment. this is outrageous. this is almost too horrific to contemplate and goes against several fundamental human rights. the case of shagufta kausar and shafqat emmanuel is an examples of these horrific consequences. the s&d fully denounce both blasphemy laws and, of course, capital punishment, as this chamber has stated before. i am glad that we included such writings in this resolution today. as the s&d negotiator, i also want to take the possibility to think my co—negotiators, across the parties, for the very constructive negotiations yesterday. we in the s&d group are also satisfied with this report today, that we have managed to highlight the abolishment of the death penalty, the call for the repeal of blasphemy laws, and the broader consequences of these kinds of laws for minorities, women, the poor and other groups, as well as for civil society organisations, including journalists and human rights defenders. finally, i want to emphasise the importance of interfaith dialogue in pakistan and the denouncing of the demonstrations and attacks against our member state, france.
author. – mr president, imagine you stand accused of sending a blasphemous text. you protest: ‘but i’m illiterate’. the verdict? guilty. sentence? death. that verdict befell shagufta kausar and shafqat emmanuel, a pakistani christian couple, and they have been on death row since 2014. shagufta’s health deteriorated. he fell into a coma and was denied proper medical attention. is this pakistani justice – to let them die in prison and orphan their four children? that same year a mob lynched another christian couple. they were stripped, paraded naked and savagely beaten. finally, the mob burned them in the very kiln they used daily to make bread. the couple’s three surviving children were all they left behind. pakistan’s prime minister, imran khan, rather than defend his citizens’ human rights against false accusers or reform pakistan’s barbaric blasphemy law, has equated denial of the holocaust, a genocide, to criticism of islam’s prophet. mr president, prime minister khan has crossed the rubicon. eu policy towards countries that enable islamic extremism must be resolute. withdraw pakistan’s gsp+ status now!
for the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. how did microsoft, apple and google come into being? was it because the us government in the 1970s put a proposal before congress to create a digital america? they debated for hours how many billions of dollars should be spent on digital hubs in alaska or florida and how to train oil workers in texas in the new digital technology through a federal initiative, or by regulating the gender distribution of boardrooms? no, creative industries thrive best when politics are out of the way. i don't think a bunch of digital hubs, innovation councils, detailed regulation, mandatory gender-based capital allocation or even a few billion euros in grants will do the big job. the eu should do more to promote innovation, together with the member states, by focusing on entrepreneurship and creating clear frameworks, effective governance, legal certainty, fast-track court decisions and simplified tax rules. as things stand today, the apple, google and microsoft of tomorrow will not be european.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as we all know, life is of great importance in the protection of ecosystems and the transition to a sustainable europe. but what makes this project and this programme so extra interesting is also that it brings such great socioeconomic benefits. we can look at 2014. it is estimated that the funding of various life projects in europe in that year returned some eur 1.7 billion - a fantastic return, because it is about four times the life budget for that year. that is why it is indeed pure and simple economic stupidity that neither the commission, the council nor the groups to the right of us in this parliament were in favour of further substantial increases in the budget for this literally vital programme. but obviously there are many who are unwilling, or perhaps unable, to understand that ecology and economics are really intertwined. funding for nature conservation and climate action is never a cost; it is a necessary investment in our society, our economy and our future that really pays off. anything less than building a green, sustainable society is both unsustainable and uneconomical.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner schmit, i have to ask you. workplace accidents such as blackouts, broken protective equipment, unpaid wages and incorrect contracts. this weekend, the swedish media were able to take in a frightening glimpse into how the forestry industry works, but it could just as easily have been about the transport, cleaning or construction industry. we are witnessing today the spread of a system of fraud and exploitation in the eu labour market. in the long term, this threatens the support for free movement in the eu's internal market. that is why i am glad that we can send a clear message from parliament here today. that's enough! the trade union rights must never again be held back by the free movement of frivolous companies. the loopholes exploited by the shady companies need to be closed and the fight against work-related crime needs to be strengthened, both at national level and at the european labour authority.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of opinions on the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first, the climate crisis is not a future threat. the climate crisis is here and now. people are being destroyed, displaced and dying because of climate disasters today. second, all the facts are on the table. we know that those who are most affected are those who have contributed the least to climate change, namely the most vulnerable, the poor, women and girls, indigenous peoples. third, we know what we have to do to save both people and the planet. we have to change the way we live our lives, the way we build our economies, the way we allocate our resources. we also know that it's going too slow. we've bought ourselves a little more time, but the most vulnerable are dying because of our lifestyle. we have to do more now!
mr president, commissioner, we have heard today already that europe has a historic responsibility based on our emissions of fossil fuels. we were building our wealth in the last 100 years and we still one of the biggest emitters globally and the collateral damage is global warming, resulting in a climate crisis. we’re talking about disappearing islands. we’re talking about desertification and droughts. and there is no doubt that these droughts and desertification are fueling conflicts, are triggering conflicts like they triggered the civil war in syria and like this is a trigger in the sahel zone. if we look at nigeria, we think this is a religious conflict. the root cause is a land conflict because of the desertification of the landscape. it’s a conflict between animal holders and land farmers. so it’s also a climate conflict – but this does not excuse anyone who is violent and infringing human rights. but we have to acknowledge that not only a person that is threatened by a kalashnikov is threatened by death. we are ready to accept that with regard to asylum seekers. we should look into our situation and also accept citizens that are threatened by death by climate crisis. this is a historic responsibility of us in the european union.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! we all know that climate change is affecting women and children in a big way. they are the majority of climate refugees, exposed to additional violence, hunger and death. they are also the first victims of wars over natural resources and armed conflicts. this is largely due to existing gender inequalities, which are manifested in the more difficult economic situation of women, their marginalisation and discrimination in social and political life, and their less access to capital, education and healthcare. i would like to stress the importance of including women in key decision-making processes and ensuring their representation in local governments and national parliaments. research clearly shows that women's full and equal participation in sustainable development decisions is crucial to the success of the fight against climate change. as president of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly, i would also like to express the hope that the renewed partnership between the union and the acp countries and the new cooperation strategy with africa, also mentioned in the report, will put women and the fight for gender equality at the heart of action and joint efforts to combat climate change. i would also like to congratulate the president and all the other rapporteurs. this is a very important and timely topic. i hope that parliament's decision and this report will contribute, even if only in a small way, to solving these - as i emphasize with all my strength - important and women's problems.
mr president, commissioner, the poorest and most vulnerable are the ones who suffer the most from the impact of climate change. they suffer the direct impact of disasters, the destruction of biodiversity, the reduction of crops. they are also often the main targets of energy and economic transition processes which, while absolutely necessary, do not discriminate as they should, positively, discriminate against those who need it most. processes that force the most vulnerable populations and developing countries to pay the highest price for change, without the proper compensation of the wealthiest and developed countries. as a central pillar of our ambition to lead in the energy transition and in the fight against climate change, we, the european union, must mobilise and mobilise the international community to put in place a fairer and more effective strategy, one that strengthens the contribution of the more developed countries to limiting the impacts of climate change on the most vulnerable populations through humanitarian support measures and the financing of structural interventions, mitigation, training and economic and social skills, a strategy to which the report/debate makes a profound contribution and which cannot be ignored.
member of the commission. – mr president, i wish to thank the honourable members for this very good discussion. many of you have stressed that the most vulnerable populations are often the ones that are most affected by the effects of climate change. i’m convinced that together we can take forward the issues related to the impact of climate change on vulnerable people, including their displacement. the european union and its member states are one of the most important players in the fight against climate change. in 2019 the european union, its member states and the european investment bank supported partner countries with almost eur 22 billion in climate finance, and this included actively supporting vulnerable countries and vulnerable segments of populations in adapting to climate change and preparedness for disaster risk reduction. this makes the european union a leading force in this domain. rest assured that the european commission, with its external action, will continue to advocate and to take concrete steps for this priority issue, leaving no one behind.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the debate on the oral question to the commission by mr tomas tobé, on behalf of the committee on development, on speeding up progress and tackling inequalities in order to eradicate aids as a public health threat by 2030 (o-000027/2021 - b9-0015/21), will continue.
author. – mr president, as chair of the development committee, let me start by thanking charles goerens from renew, who took the political initiative in our committee, and also give my thanks to the whole committee for supporting this and making sure that we could move quickly. i think that today’s debate is very important, as it provides a timely opportunity to make a contribution ahead of the un high level meeting on aids. it is a historic moment for aids response, as this year marks 40 years since the emergence of the first cases of hiv and 25 years since the creation of unaids. in 2019, 38 million people were living with hiv and approximately 12 million people did not have access to life-saving treatment. in 2019 there were also 1.77 million new infections, and 700 000 people died of aids-related causes globally. these data show that hiv and aids remains a global crisis. in 2020, targets set by the 2016 political declaration were missed by a huge margin, and due to the covid-19 pandemic, many people have had no hiv or aids treatment, as hiv services have been severely disrupted. the covid crisis has reversed the efforts made in fighting hiv and has also exposed social inequalities and health system weaknesses. it is therefore crucial that we use this opportunity of this upcoming high-level meeting to review progress and challenges, to make commitments, to accelerate action if we are to beat the disease by 2030. in preparation for this important high level meeting, we would like to address three questions to the commission. firstly, how will the commission ensure that the eu contributes to the adoption of forward-looking and ambitious commitments in the 2021 political declaration on hiv/aids? secondly, what steps will the commission take to accelerate efforts to end aids and support partner countries’ efforts to build resilient health and community systems? thirdly, what will the commission do to address inequalities fuelling the hiv epidemic at country level? in the accompanying resolution, we also underline that the global aids response requires a multi-sectoral approach and multi-level cooperation. we state the need for partner countries to build strong and resilient health systems and for more eu funding to be devoted to global health and the fight against hiv. covid-19 has also shown that countries need to invest in pandemic preparedness and responses. evidence has also shown that progress in the fight against hiv is possible when human rights-based approaches are adopted and when services are responsive to the needs of key populations and other priority populations facing challenges in accessing hiv services. we should use the implementation of the eu human rights action plan and gender action plan iii to address the fight against stigma and discrimination, criminalisation of same-sex relations and other punitive and discriminatory laws, as well as access to comprehensive sexuality education. i also believe that there is a need for renewed eu commitment to the global hiv response, with more determination, accountability and resources. for me it is abundantly clear that what we need to do is to increase our efforts and that the eu has a leading role to play.
madam president, thousands of migrants arrived on the shores of italy last week, and the numbers keep rising. it’s been six years since the migration crisis began. we have had several debates. yet, the eu is still making the same mistakes. the crisis will never be stopped and solved unless a completely new approach is taken. sentimentalism is not the right answer here. the eu should clarify, once and for all, that illegal arrivals are not tolerated, either at sea or on land. decisions on applications should be made prior to entry into europe, and those who do not have the right to enter or to stay should be returned. europe has to send the right messages. ngo ships, for instance, that cooperate with human smugglers must be stopped, and it’s not acceptable to tolerate and to encourage the activism of these ngos as a transport service for illegal migration. the best way to avoid such tragedies on the mediterranean is to make every effort to ensure that those ships never leave the coasts of africa in the first place. we have to help where help is needed in africa, instead of bringing a problem into europe that we cannot solve.
madam president, since yesterday, more than 6 000 migrants arrived at the spanish enclave, ceuta. almost 30 000 people arrived in the union through one of the mediterranean routes during the first five months of this year, of which almost half arrived in italy. more than 600 migrants have died trying to cross the mediterranean sea. perhaps we will never know the real numbers. it is clear that we need – and it’s our obligation – to rescue distressed people at sea, but we must also effectively combat migrant smuggling networks which cold—heartedly put vulnerable people’s lives at risk, also leading to increased irregular migration. we need closer cooperation with third countries to combat, investigate and prosecute human traffickers. the impunity must end. we also need a better functioning eu migration policy, effective external border controls, fair and swift asylum procedures, and efficient return of those not granted status. we must distinguish between asylum seekers in need of protection and irregular migrants. there is no time to waste. the council must start acting. it is not getting any easier to break the deadlock if we wait. we need to start to talk now.
mr president, i would like to thank you. "the dates you ate yesterday, rip your ass today". i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to think about the turkish proverb. the european union has also supported the efforts of the turkish authorities to establish a european police force. eu-funded turkish coast guard vessels attempted to ram swedish and finnish ships patrolling for frontex in the mediterranean. yesterday, turkey submitted an application to join the eu's military cooperation programme pesco. today, therefore, a trojan horse full of dates stands at the gates of brussels, and the choice is ours. the eu's billions in aid to turkey may bring calm today. it's a false peace. in the long term, erdoğan is strengthened by the eu's fear of conflict. his ottoman and islamist projects are being funded by our tax dollars. the date-squashing has to stop. otherwise, it won't be fun tomorrow.
mr president, dear rapporteur, in the report you rightly mention that turkey mocks international law, and among many examples, the report says article 21, point 21. the turkish judiciary is also disregarding decisions adopted by the un mechanisms such as the un human rights committee and the working group on arbitrary detention. how do you expect turkey to take us seriously if there are european union states like spain that are doing exactly the same? this same working group issued two reports calling for the release of catalan political prisoners, but the spain did exactly the same as turkey – they ignored them. how can we criticize turkey for doing the same as eu member states are doing? i wonder what the answer would be if turkey asked us this question...
mr president, the report we are discussing today gives a very accurate description of the situation. suspending accession negotiations and exploring a new special relationship with turkey is the only realistic option facing erdogan. this new special relationship cannot be confined to the economy. one aspect of the currency may be the upgrading of the customs union. the other should include respect for human rights at home and respect for international law and the sovereign rights of neighbouring countries, as well as the management of migration and refugee flows, preventing the exploitation of human suffering. the inclusion in the report of the arms embargo by european states against turkey is a necessary step. finally, dear colleagues, tomorrow marks the 102nd anniversary of the beginning of the genocide of pontic hellenism, one of the mass crimes that took place in the collapsing ottoman empire between 1912 and 1922, with greek, armenian and assyrian victims. only the preservation of historical memory and its recognition can ensure that humanity will never again face such atrocities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i say to you and to the whole of europe: turkey makes turkey, turks make the turks. what is needed is for europe to be europe, for europeans to be europeans. it is a fact that turkey under erdoğan is a dangerous turkey for europe, that is the theme. and this is not just because it is led by the muslim brotherhood, which is considered by some to be a terrorist organization. it is not only because turkey is now expanding its markets, particularly the libyan market, but also because its actions have made it a point of reference for islam, and above all because it has become a point of reference for criminal organizations and for illegal immigration, not only along the balkan route but also along the central mediterranean route. the turkey-libya deal is supposed to scare europe: we must stop this mechanism. it is unthinkable that 15 libyan ministers go to turkey and do not come to dialogue with europe. europe must wake up, otherwise turkey will put us in a very difficult situation.
mr. chairman, please! there have been a lot of accusations against turkey in the report and in this room today on many levels, and i think that strategic partners should not talk like that. in foreign affairs, we need to be able to look at certain issues from a distance, so that we can assess the broader context of the situation, and the situation in the middle east, north africa and the mediterranean is currently extremely complex. turkey is a very important partner for us in this area, for the whole union, in terms of security and stability. if we as the european union want to be effective in the region, we should do so with the help of and in cooperation with ankara. of course, we also need to talk openly about our differences and concerns - it's perfectly normal between partners. however, hitting emotional notes or calling for a reduction in formal relations will not bring any positive results, and if we want to talk and cooperate with turkey, we should do so through dialogue, not confrontation. my general advice is less lecturing and more honest and open communication.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr sánchez amor on his thorough and well-worked report. the relationship with turkey is very important: a candidate country, a nato ally, a customs union partner, and turkey is a key player in europe. unfortunately, in recent years there has been a serious deterioration in the bilateral relationship: at home, the turkish government is moving away from the democratic values and principles which we share as members of the council of europe; at the external level, there has been a hyper-activism on the part of ankara, which is involved in numerous conflicts: syria, libya, nagorno karabakh, the eastern mediterranean, and so on. however, we must continue to make every effort not to break up our relationship, confrontation must not take precedence over cooperation. we must not confuse turkey with the authoritarian government of erdoğan, our vision must be long-term; it would be harmful to convey the idea that europe rejects turkey: we must not push it into the arms of russia or iran. fortunately, in recent months, the bilateral negotiations between turkey and greece have returned and steps have been taken to resume talks on a solution for cyprus: the way must be dialogue and de-escalation, and turkey must make efforts along these lines.
mr president, the title has been changed very correctly and we are not talking about a progress report on turkey. but we should be talking about a backward display of turkey. there is a backsliding on human rights within turkey itself with tens of thousands of prisoners, a backsliding on the istanbul agreement, a backsliding on relations with its neighbours, and even becoming a leading destabilising factor in the mediterranean, as far as libya and the caucasus, continuing the occupation in cyprus. the turkish regime is daily making a point of demonstrating its contempt for the values of the european union by blackmailing and using the refugee. if we want to change things and make it a true partner, we must help it become a democratic country by supporting civil society.
mr president, we are discussing turkey today. we must finally understand and realize what country we are talking about. we are talking about a country which has never respected the european parliament, the european institutions, the european principles and values. we are talking about a country which is daily and continuously violating european international law, the law of the sea, human rights and women's rights. we are talking about the country whose expansionist and aggressive policy starts against the armenians, from nagorno karabakh, and ends in the eastern mediterranean. i remind you that we are talking about a country which for 47 years has occupied a member state of the european union, my country, cyprus, and for 47 years has denied the inalienable right of 200,000 refugees, and my right, to return to the land of our fathers, to our ancestral homes. today, historical memory calls us to remember the genocide of 353,000 greeks in pontus, asia minor and constantinople at the hands of the young turks. i believe, mr president, and you should convey this, that it is time for 19 may, the day of the new turk genocide, to be recognised by the european parliament and the institutions as a day of genocide and to honour the memory of the 353 000 victims of new turkism. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, it is time to send a clear message to mr erdoğan. the european union is a place of freedom, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. we only speak this language and we cannot accept behaviour far from these values. it is time, mr erdoğan, to decide what road to follow. shall we prosper together and work for the well—being of the turkish people and of the european union and your country’s citizens? however, your attitude needs a radical change. stop illegal and unilateral military actions in the eastern mediterranean against eu member states. stop disrespecting institutions. how is it possible to leave the istanbul convention or to limit access to hagia sophia? choose freedom, choose democracy, and we will have negotiations again.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the world is full of people of turkish immigrant background who are constructive members of their societies. turkey has many citizens who are constructive members of their society and do not share what their political leadership is doing, do not approve of what the turkish government is doing. the criticism here from the european parliament in very large numbers is directed at the turkish leadership. the european parliament's report says many things that are true, such as that there is criticism of what turkey is doing in many parts of the world, in libya and the middle east, in cyprus and greece. we stand together, and we stand for justice and for the right way to treat each other. but the report does not say what i am asking for, namely a clear break in the accession negotiations. and the report does not say that pre-accession aid must end: no more money to turkey as a candidate country because it is not. i shall therefore not be able to support the report here in the european parliament. this is because of this content and not because president erdoğan curses austria, as he himself said. i can only send him the clear message from here, and that translates into turkish: a curse says more about the one who curses than the one who is cursed. and if you look at the economic situation in turkey, cooperation would be better than confrontation, for the many hardworking turkish men and women.
mr president, there is hardly any country in the world with so many journalists in prison. there is no free press in turkey, and no freedom of religion. you'd have to ask the american reverend andrew brunson. and what about the murderers in the christian bookstore on geske and his friends? those murderers were sentenced to life and only served a few years. and turkey is seriously suspected of supporting hamas terrorists. and then you write in this report that we are going to suspend relations between turkey and the eu! how is it possible, chairman! who the hell thought of that? and erdoğan is laughing his ass off at this divided europe. there's only one answer: turkey not a member of the european union.
mr president, turkey is a country which is unfortunately going backwards on all levels. in turkey today, democracy is in decline, the rule of law is in decline, individual rights are in decline. the public discourse in turkey is dominated by the revival of the ottoman empire, the revival of islam, from uzbekistan to andalusia in spain. hagia sophia is being turned into a mosque. the european parliament has been a party to the treaty of rome, but it has not yet been able to take a decision on the future of the community. today turkey is challenging yet another international treaty, the montreux convention, a treaty which defines the status of the straits and the demilitarization of the islands of the northeastern aegean. this turkey cannot be a full member of the european union. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, ministers of foreign affairs! the eu must be clear on turkey and president erdoğan. this is not the time to turn a blind eye to the long-standing democratic backsliding, the undermining of the rule of law and the illegality of turkey's drilling in the eastern mediterranean. the eu needs to be resolute in its support for greece and cyprus. but while we are clear in our criticism of turkey, turkey is and remains our neighbour. i am convinced that the eu and turkey need to work together on important issues such as migration, security, economy, energy and climate. turkey's membership of the eu is not an issue. let us therefore build something new, where the eu does not shrink, where we stand up for our values but also recognise the value of cooperation.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, sirens wail, rocket attack is imminent, you have precious seconds to run for shelter. millions of israelis often face this reality. would you tolerate thousands of rockets targeting your homes? would you ignore calls glorifying terror attacks against your people? would you accept an internationally recognised terror organisation attacking your democratic country? if, minister santos silva of the eu presidency, your answer is yes to these questions, then god help us if europe is ever attacked. if your answer is ‘no, i would not stand for it’, then, minister, you’re no better nor worse than israel. you’re normal. that is why we have to stand by israel against terror groups which seek its annihilation.
madam president, all actors, hamas and netanyahu, must end this hideous violence immediately for the sake of the people and for the sake of the children that are living in constant terror. over 200 innocent people in gaza, among them 59 children, were killed. nine innocent people in israel, among them one child, were killed. media outlet buildings, ap and al jazeera, were bombed in gaza by the israeli authorities. what is going on is nothing other than war crimes, and we must also dare to speak the truth. only through once and for all ending the everyday annexation and five-decade-long occupation of palestine will a lasting peace, where two states, israel and palestine, live side by side in peace and security, be possible. let us be clear: there is an occupying power here, namely israel, who has a big responsibility to end the root cause for the sake of the israeli and the palestinian people. the eu and the eu’s member state, should, once and for all, recognise palestine.
the submission of an opinion by the envi committee. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. one in four environmental organizations in the world with which the swedish society for the protection of nature cooperates reports that someone within the organization has been murdered for their commitment. every fourth organization! this has to stop! the threat posed by environmentalists to authoritarian regimes and unfree societies is not new, but it must be stopped. we must start talking about the role of democracy in sustainable development. without freedom of expression and media freedom, there can be no scrutiny of companies, authorities and decision-makers. without the rule of law and the protection of civil society organisations, environmentalists live dangerously, dangerously! without a free academy and free scientists, we will not have the facts and the truth about the state of the environment. the most important thing for a sustainable future would be for all countries to become democratic. among the 17 un global sustainable development goals, the most important one is missing - the right of all people to freedom and democracy. let's make it the 18th!
mr president, climate change already affects and will continue to affect every aspect of our lives, including our fundamental rights, and test our democracies. at the same time, the fundamental rights of the environmental defender must be protected. if we don’t step up our efforts, we might see over one billion people in forced displacement by 2050. environmental defenders have had and have an important role in our society. many times it is thanks to them that we open up our eyes to what is really going on. a sound, healthy and sustainable environment and climate goes hand-in-hand with the human rights and the free aspiration of every human being on this planet.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? erasmus is truly a flagship programme. for over three decades, millions of young people have been given the opportunity to broaden their horizons, develop, make friends and build important partnerships. the free movement of students is a very important part of our european cooperation. we social democrats have fought hard to make erasmus+ available to everyone. it is therefore very encouraging and important that the period now has a greater focus on inclusion, and it is important that we have climate change as a priority issue. in these times, when our democracy is under threat, this is even more important, because exchanges and cooperation open to all create understanding, bring people together and contribute to a more democratic europe.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! it is of the utmost importance that the eu acts actively to ensure global access to vaccines. this is a matter of both global solidarity and protecting our people, because no one is safe until the pandemic is stopped everywhere. the question of temporarily lifting patent protection is a reasonable one, and it is my firm view that we should not close any doors. the basic problem, however, is one of production capacity. therefore, the focus must continue to be on investment and increased support for covax. we must ensure the production and distribution of vaccines. it is also about removing export restrictions which unfortunately exist and which hamper the production of vaccines. the eu shall work to ensure global access. people's lives and health are at stake.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eu will lift all the stones and evaluate all the possibilities to contribute to the rapid vaccination of all people on earth. we're gonna win the battle against the virus today and the mutated virus tomorrow. trade barriers must be removed so that no one can sit and hold on to vital components. the covax system must be stepped up. licensing, knowledge, technology and financing are needed to increase global production. we must be able to rethink our positions and be pragmatic now, but we must not shoot ourselves in the foot. dropping patents may sound thoughtful, but it can be life-threatening. patents are crucial to the development of vaccines. if the united states is serious about joining the eu and leading the fight against the coronavirus, it's time to live up to that. start by removing trade barriers that make it difficult, expensive and impede the trade of vaccines. we don't need any more political games. we need a vaccine now!
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, this report, and i quote, ‘starts from the principle that migration is normal’. normal? six thousand migrants storming ceuta yesterday morning is normal? one thousand migrants landing on lampedusa over the course of a morning is normal? you must mean the new normal. well, let me tell you about the future normal. africa’s population will double by 2050, totalling today’s china and india combined. one-third of all sub-saharan africans would prefer to move, according to gallup’s world poll survey. in four west african countries almost half to two-thirds of the population wants to leave. we’re talking about a potential mass migration of one billion or more. so what if, commissioner, you want zones and the majority solution? legal pathways for medium- and low-skilled labour, legalise the illegal, normalise the abnormal. this is a pipe dream. legal avenues for migration will increase, not decrease the legal migration. why? diasporas that facilitate further migration will grow. in its wake so will segregation. we, the minority, firmly reject your new normal and your future normal. i hope the majority will too, before it’s too late.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. free movement is one of the cornerstones of eu cooperation. freedom of movement between member states, to live, work and reside is fundamental. however, in the eu we also have a proud tradition of welcoming and attracting labour immigration to our region. however, it is not a given that the eu will always be and remain an attractive region to visit. rather, the risk of the opposite is that cumbersome bureaucracy, a lack of political commitment and a declining awareness of the benefits of labour immigration. i want to make this right. i have been appointed rapporteur on a legislative issue on improving european labour immigration. my aim is less red tape and more harmonisation of the eu legal framework in this area. in sweden we have for some time now had a framework which has made it easier to apply for and come to sweden as a labour migrant. it has also made it easier for employers to recruit globally. this has helped our economy and strengthened our international competitiveness. i want to emphasize one thing: the free movement of persons is not a threat. but it does with bad legislation and slow bureaucracy. labour migration is important for the supply of skills in european labour markets. it is also important for the recovery of eu businesses and economies from covid-19 and for meeting future democratic challenges.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you. it is both sad and disheartening that the commission and eu governments are so focused on restricting migration instead of developing a more comprehensive and needs-based policy, one that would benefit not only migrants but also the eu economies. the lack of legal migration has led to parallel labour markets in some sectors, wage dumping, unfair competition and human exploitation. it is not migrants who have caused these problems. that's our policy. the fact that we lack a comprehensive policy based on the great need we have in europe for more labour and the difference that labour immigration could make to our societies is, taken together, a sad story of populist incompetence. there are decisions to be made for brave politicians decisions that benefit both the eu and migrants. i would urge the commission to read the report and to take inspiration from it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! as many speakers before me have said: the aarhus convention is of course very, very important, not least in terms of the principles on which it is based. we are talking about human rights, the right of people to a healthy environment, the upholding of the fundamental principles of the rule of law and, not least, the strengthening of transparency in decision-making and the impact of those decisions, not least on the environment in which we are trying to live. it should be obvious to have legislation at eu level which is fully in line with the convention which we have, after all, already signed decades ago. but we know that there are still major shortcomings in the eu's compliance with the convention. there are improvements proposed by the commission and the council, but they are not fully sufficient. environmental organisations and individual citizens should of course be able to influence decisions and legal processes on the environment, health and natural resources. it must be easy for people to participate in these decision-making processes, to gain transparency and even to be able to question when a policy is not up to par. we know that we now have several interlinked crises of urgency, and for those challenges we obviously need strong eu institutions, but strength must come with responsibility. decisions and the information on which they are based must be transparent and also open to challenge. we will, of course, live up to the un convention. otherwise, the eu will lose credibility as a leader on environmental and climate issues and as a champion of the rule of law and our efforts to promote democracy in europe.
madam president, member states are supposed to submit their national roma strategies by september this year. it is important to reflect already. let me give you an example of what is happening in one of our member states, hungary, a country with a significant number of marginalised roma population in europe. an only draft national strategy, seen by a civil society organisation that we in the anti-racism and diversity intergroup talked with, is not reflecting recommendations from the new eu framework. for example, the draft doesn’t even mention anti-gypsyism or discrimination or racism. there is no real consultation even with the independent roma and pro-roma organisations. no roma is participating in the implementation in, for example, the hungarian flagship programme ‘300 villages’. there is no transparent use of eu funds. to conclude, it is high time we ensure that the financial support aimed at supporting the roma communities goes to the communities, and is not being misused by some member states for other purposes.
author. – madam president, the acting osce chair and swedish foreign minister, ann linde, has called for ‘the sides to urgently complete exchange of detainees’. sides? how many azerbaijani prisoners of war does armenia have yet to return? minister linde, there is only one side in this conflict that completely disregards international humanitarian law, and that is azerbaijan. ann linde, as a foreign minister and acting osce chair, i ask you, as co—author of this resolution of the european parliament, to heed this resolution and to call upon azerbaijan to immediately and unconditionally release all armenian prisoners – both military and civilian – detained during and after the conflict. diplomacy is no excuse to conceal the truth.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is no doubt that climate and the environment are issues where european cooperation can make a real difference. this of course includes the preservation of biodiversity. that is why i support the ambition of the eu's new strategy. but to tackle all these challenges effectively, we also need a policy framework that respects the traditions of the member states and creates the right conditions for the whole of society to change. above all, we need a policy based on the interaction between man and nature, a policy which does not only see man as a problem but actually also as part of the solution. around europe, we have a long tradition of responsible and sustainable management of our nature. it is a tradition, and it must be both encouraged and strengthened. we see this tradition among farmers who cultivate their land with the goal of doing so not just today but for a long time to come. we see it amongst forestry workers who are working with a stewardship mindset to care for what they own for future generations, and we see it amongst dedicated hunters who are not only respecting, but actively stewarding, biodiversity. i therefore look with concern at the political voices that not only want to restrict the competence of the member states themselves but also to limit the individual's ownership and participation in sustainable nature management. i therefore hope that we can all in the european parliament stand up for a policy which encourages a long-term sustainable environmental policy that works for the whole of society.
mr president, i would like to thank you. species and ecosystems are threatened by climate change and human influence. it's not just a loss in itself; it makes us poorer and more vulnerable and increases the risk of future pandemics. as we move towards the necessary transition from a fixed fossil-based economy, there is a risk that we will increase the pressure on nature. the protection of biodiversity and the ecosystem services provided by nature in the form of food and water, wood and bioenergy, carbon sequestration, water purification and pollination must therefore be strengthened. high standards for the protection of biodiversity need not be a threat to the profitable use of forests and land. on the contrary, i think so. but we have to work together. we have a responsibility to ensure that our children and grandchildren can fish in the baltic sea. the same responsibilities we demand of other countries in the world. there is a need for a renaissance in nature conservation in sweden and in europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. unfortunately, we are now at full speed towards the sixth mass extinction. the last time that happened was when the dinosaurs disappeared. if so, it's certainly the first time that we humans have caused a mass extinction, but it's also the first time that any animal species on this planet is about to do so. to avoid this, of course, we must cooperate with nature, not work against it. we need biodiversity to put food on our table, to have clean water to drink and to have clean fresh air to breathe. moreover, biodiversity will be crucial if we, our societies, life on this planet - and not least our forests - are to have the ability to adapt to a warmer and changing climate. our political opponents sometimes remind us that we must also think about the economy when we talk about sustainable development, but then we must also remember that biology is the basis of the economy. without a well-ordered ecology, we cannot have a well-ordered economy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. free movement within the eu is one of the cornerstones of our european cooperation. protecting this freedom is critically important, as the pandemic has made clear. the agreement on the eu digital covid certificate is therefore welcome and very positive. it's a step along the way. the certificate will make it easier for eu citizens and their family members to travel more safely for work, to meet relatives, family and friends or for a first holiday in europe. it will also contribute to the economic recovery in the eu. i particularly welcome the eu's pledge of €100 million to make testing affordable for all citizens. no one should be forced to give up a certificate because they cannot afford it. it is now possible and it is now important that it be introduced as soon as possible.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we have repeatedly discussed the situation in belarus. we have pointed out the human rights violations that lukashenka and his regime commit daily against their own people, but this is also about europe. we must continue to show lukashenko that the eu will never accept the oppression and terror we are seeing. but the time for talking is over. the eu must react and we must act decisively. when lukashenko, like a terrorist, uses military force to hijack european airplanes to arrest journalists who are then tortured, the scale is off. it can't go unpunished. economic sanctions are important and send a clear signal, we will hit hard. it is clear that lukashenko no longer has any respect for the international system, but he must now understand that the eu is serious. all measures must now be put on the table, and i want to know what the commission intends to do further. at the same time, we must be vigilant against russian interference in this. it's no secret that lukashenka is in putin's pocket. but our message here today is crystal clear: the political prisoners must be released and free elections must be held in belarus.
madam president, i want to focus on the most vulnerable group in the world. the world health organization recently reported that 120 million girls and young women under the age of 20 have been victims of rape or other kinds of sexual abuse. furthermore, that one in one in five women and one in 13 men report being victims of sexual abuse before their 18th birthday is unacceptable. child sexual abuse and exploitation, both online and offline, knows no border and requires coordinated response. we must properly recognise and address these horrendous crimes with a multistakeholder approach. in this debate today i would therefore like to bring to your attention the idea to adopt a resolution in the upcoming united nations general assembly meeting, to establish a world day for child sexual abuse and exploitation prevention, healing and justice to raise awareness yearly.
mr president, i would like to thank you. 5060 yes, 5060 is the number of sexist comments that finnish prime minister sanna marin received daily during the months that nato monitored twitter messages to finnish ministers. the report shows that women ministers are subject to sexist abuse, regardless of their political position. i have had my own experience of this, and we are not alone. women politicians are constantly subjected to online abuse and hate just because we are women. this is a serious threat to our democracy and it is high time that the eu stepped up its work against gender-based violence, whether it is physical, psychological, sexual, financial or online. all people have the right to live a life free from threats and violence. women too.
mr president ! we know that cyberbullying is a part of everyday life for many women, especially young women. one in five women has been harassed online. this kind of violence not only creates insecurity and fear, it also prevents women from participating in the democratic conversation, from expressing opinions, from engaging politically. we must not stop at this, but we must fight against the norms which make it possible for men in particular to threaten, harass, beat and kill women. we need to make sure that we get legislation in place that criminalizes violence, online and offline. i therefore call on the european commission to present comprehensive legislation that obliges all member states to prevent and combat male violence against women in all rooms.
mr president, online harassment against women exists in the whole of society, including targeting women in positions of power. according to a study by the inter—parliamentary union, social media platforms are now the most common place in which violence and abuse against female parliamentarians is perpetrated. it is a shame that these platforms, originally intended to facilitate free debate, have now become outlets for hate. this toxic climate online not only creates a hostile environment for females, but also limits free speech. it limits our possibility to fully enjoy our democratic rights. the intersectional nature of these crimes must also be recognised. as a female politician of colour, i too have experienced attacks and threats online that i know my male counterparts will never ever need to go through. i also must admit that many times i hesitated to run for office because of the experiences that other women before me had experienced. gender—based violence should never be met with impunity. a swift response is required now. (applause)
madam president, i would like to thank you. marit paulsen, former liberal mep, is one of europe's bravest women - or aunt, as she likes to call herself. i cannot believe that it took a brave aunt to seriously bring the issue of how we treat animals to the eu agenda. she pushed for the right of animals to their natural behaviors, for the right of pigs to curl their tails, against the preventive use of antibiotics, against the torturous transport of animals, for an animal fbi that would put the animal torturers away. marit was fighting. marit won. thank you, marit! many animals are doing very well, and good animal husbandry makes better food. but the great battle for the good life of all animals is still ahead of us, and marit's issues must be addressed globally. the way we treat our animals is a measure of our civilization and a prerequisite for good public health. all livestock farming must guarantee animals a dignified life and a dignified death. thank you to all of you 1.4 million signatories of the citizens' initiative we're discussing today. now we have the work ahead of us.
madam president, i would like to thank you. there are over 300 million animals in the eu kept in cages for food, fur and other production purposes. it is completely unacceptable that we humans force these animals to live their short, limited lives in cages. we simply need a stop, a ban, on this. there are other alternative ways of raising animals, if you want to. contrary to what some others in the debate claim, this would not only be good for the health of the animals, but also for us humans. it would be a way of creating more resilience throughout the food production chain. we greens have put a number of amendments to the vote to strengthen the text even further. i really hope that many in the other political groups will also support these amendments. finally, a big thank you to all the citizens who have supported this citizens' initiative, which gives us the opportunity to work further on these issues. we're gonna take that and make the best of it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, morocco sent more than 9 000 migrants to ceuta. it has repeatedly weaponised migrants, both its own citizens and foreigners, holding spain’s borders hostage to achieve its foreign policy objectives. now over six million moroccans want to leave. what if they send 80 or 800 000 and refuse to accept the returns? suspend eu development aid transfers to morocco? sanction the administration? the european parliament today expresses solidarity with the people of spain, and indeed it should – ceuta es españa – but it’s time for this house to face the cold, hard truth. this is solidarity on paper only. with your migration policy we will remain hostages until we adopt a zero-tolerance policy towards illegal entry and fully secure our borders.
mr president, i would like to thank you. yes, after more than a year of a pandemic, we're seeing some positive developments. more and more eu citizens are being vaccinated, although we still face a major global challenge. slowly, we can open up our societies and with the eu digital covid certificate, we can facilitate free movement within the eu. but there's still a lot of work to be done. the coordination within the eu must continue and all, indeed all, member states must take their responsibilities. balanced action is needed to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, which has hit women particularly hard. it's about equality. it is about sustainable economic growth, as defined in the paris agreement, and a green and digital transformation. the pandemic has shown both strengths and weaknesses. now we must learn from covid-19 so that we are better able to deal with future crises for the sake of our eu citizens.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the fight against abortion rights, led by value conservatives and religious fundamentalists, is a threat to everyone's right to make decisions about their own bodies. for months we have been receiving terrifying letters and emails from the organized anti-abortion lobby urging us not to stand up for human rights. the right-wing nationalists here in parliament have listened to the letter writers and are now trying to stop the report on the importance of the right to abortion, the right to sex education, the right to contraception. they must not succeed. we must be able to show all those in the eu member states who are deprived of their rights and freedoms that we stand by them. tomorrow we're voting on whether to say, as it is, that sexual and reproductive health is a human right. this could be a historic day. this should be a historic day.
mr president, i would like to thank you. to have control over your own body. to make decisions about their own lives. to decide when and with whom to have children. to live a life free from violence. access to information and health care. to enjoy their human rights, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity. it sounds obvious, and it should be obvious. but around the world, here in europe and here in this room, we see strong opposition to this. there are those who are against sex and relationship education. there are those who oppose the right to safe and legal abortions. there are those who are against equal rights for lgbtqi people and against gender equality and human rights. but we social democrats are not going to be drawn into this. we are with you, predrag fred matić, in your work and we will not give up until every human being, every woman, every girl has full access to sexual and reproductive health and rights. tomorrow, like every day, i will stand up for women's rights and i want the rest of you to do the same. because the rights of women and girls are human rights. it's time now.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner dalli, this is the police. abortion policy is not part of the eu treaties, but it is a sensitive issue and something that is constantly debated here in the european parliament. these votes have been used as an opportunity for eu federalists to try to gain more influence against the treaties and to accuse parties defending democratic self-determination of being against the right to abortion itself, which is rarely the case. it is quite possible to protect national abortion laws and at the same time to recognise the democratic decisions of the people of other countries. as a swedish democrat, i defend both swedish abortion legislation and the right of swedes to decide for themselves on abortion policy. what would happen if abortion policy were to be transferred to the eu level and the decision-making in brussels harmonised? well, our liberal politics would be a memory. keep that in mind.
the talman! commissioner, please! the clock is ticking to declare, and act, once and for all, that women's rights are human rights. it's not a matter of opinion. this is not a matter of negotiation. i can't believe that one day in june of 2021, i'm going to have to say that in this bastion of democracy. the far right, dressed in an expensive suit with a conservative tie, comes today well organized, well coordinated and well funded. they're not the crazy people who had the bloody fetal signs outside the house. they're in the house. the fight for every woman's right to control her own body is not a new fight. but the future is up to us and we will never stop fighting. the eu is the guarantor of equal rights and value for all people - for you, for me, for those who have already fought and for those who will fight.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the commitment by the countries attending the 25th anniversary of the international conference on population and development were clear. it was about ensuring sexual and reproductive health and rights for women and girls, as well as eliminating gender—based violence. however, when evaluating the progress today, it is clear that in many parts of the world we have seen a bigger backlash in the last years than we have seen progress, including in the eu. colleagues, srhr and the right to be protected from violence is not to be taken for granted. even in this parliament we have anti—gender equality advocates, clunky anti—human rights advocates. these last days i have been, as many others, focusing on different resolutions. one of them is the resolution by my social democratic colleague fred matić in the report on srhr, and the other is a report i myself am shadow for the s&d for, and that is on making gender—based violence an eu crime in the whole european union. i must say that the resistance against a gender—equal world from the right wing in this parliament is not encouraging, if we really want a union for all women and girls and a union that takes global leadership. my question to the commission and the council is, how are we making sure to step up the efforts?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. today is truly a historic day: europe is the first continent to legislate climate neutrality. climate action is perhaps the most important task of our generation of politicians. if we don't act, we're going to reach dangerous tipping points in the climate system, and our children and our grandchildren will no longer be able to prevent very dangerous climate change. so i'm glad that we're likely to have a large majority for this bill today. i thank my group for its support and in particular mairead mcguinness, who helped draft the bill before she became commissioner. i thank the rapporteur, jytte guteland, and the s&d group. thank you to the chairman pascal canfin and nils torvalds for the renew. that will be the majority we are voting with today. it is understandable that the whole left and the whole right will vote against the law. i am really sorry that the greens are not voting, and i agree with jytte guteland: if you vote against it today, you are voting against the climate protection law. that is what is being put to the vote. it's the reasoning, it's not enough. but is that really so? mr president, i would ask you to explain again the commission's analysis of why what we are deciding here today is compatible with paris. and it's really ambitious. it took us 30 years to reduce it by 25 percent in europe. and now we're aiming to hit 30 percent in nine years. we must not only double our efforts, but more than triple them! this bill is a climate change turbo, and we need it. the epp now sees three things as important in terms of implementation: firstly, we rely on the market economy and incentives, on people's creativity, on emissions trading as a system that really helps us achieve our objectives, and not on detailed regulations where we dictate everything from brussels. secondly, we want to use the potential of agriculture and forestry in this area and activate the sinks. and we want to partner with industry to secure a climate-neutral industry and jobs in industry. we want to work with people to achieve this ambitious but achievable goal. and i look forward to working with all those concerned and with everyone in this house.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i’m not much for solemn speeches. when we look at the different amendments and votes, we see that there is a great consensus and that something radical has to be done. but if we look beneath the surface we see a certain division of how: the main lines, the main principles, and here the consensus seems to be breaking up and the division seems to be twofold. on the one side, we have those who are speaking for a market economy and free market, and we have those who are putting into force more and more regulation. this division can be put in the names of different congregations. on the one side, we have the ursulines, and on the other side we have the franciscans, preaching for the birds and for biodiversity but probably forgetting that if you look at the ipbes—ipcc triangle, yes – biodiversity, climate and the good life. but we can’t achieve the good life without taking care of the economy. therefore we need less red tape, and sometimes we need also less green tape. so when the commission is now sitting down for the last meetings for fit for 2030, i think they have a very great opportunity to show that the market economy, the free market, is the way forward – not too much red tape, not too much green tape. that’s my central message.
madam president, commissioner, the commission and the council have made a serious mistake in treating this negotiation on the european climate law as if it were a classic negotiation. in a classic negotiation, states try to minimize their commitments by relying on the patience of other states, or governments try to escape their commitments to the people, counting on them to resign. but to do this, with this traditional method in a subject like this, is to understand nothing, because nature does not negotiate, nature does not have patience, nature does not resign. if we break our commitments to nature, she will react by following her own unforgiving laws. and the consequences - we know - for natural and human systems can be devastating. many people will think that lowering the emissions reduction target from 60 percent to 55 percent is not that bad either, but to think that way is to go against the science and not to assume that we are in a climate emergency. we are not against the european climate law, some of whom we will vote against, but we are against the fact that its ambitions have been so much lowered. because reducing emissions is not an option: it's a necessity.
madam president, i would like to thank you. together, we in the eu have set ambitious targets. we have an ambition to become the world's first climate-neutral continent by 2050. we have set that goal because we know that climate is one of the most important issues of our time. but to do so will require a major effort to reshape the european economy. the new climate law we are voting on today is the heart of that work. by voting yes to this agreement, we commit to reducing our emissions by 55 percent by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. it's an ambitious goal. it is also a feasible goal based on extensive evaluations and analyses by eu experts. but for me, it is also a goal based on values, on optimism, on faith in the future and on the certainty of knowing that science is not only needed to see the problems, but also to be able to find the solutions. with the new legislation in place, the eu can now show that we are ambitious, we are effective in our climate action and that it can continue to be compatible with strong economic growth. we can show the world that we have sustainable development that is actually possible. with that, i would like to address those who are considering voting against the bill today. either you choose to turn a blind eye to the problems or you use it as a kind of cheap and counterproductive climate populism. we need a europe that pursues a policy where it is possible and that reschedules and does not close down.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is of course good that we have a climate law for the eu, but it is not good that the proposal we are voting on today is not enough. many describe it as a step in the right direction, but to be honest, it is another step in the wrong direction, albeit a little slower, a little shorter than the steps we have taken in the past and compared to previous eu ambitions. we know the emissions reductions that must be made if we are to live up to the paris agreement, and at least still have a theoretical possibility of keeping global warming close to one and a half degrees by the end of the century, and it takes much more ambition than this. but, yeah, it's good that we're starting to work on the carbon budget. but it's too late to do that by 2030. we may have reached one and a half degrees by then. we'd have to work on that now, and get the emissions down. it is, of course, a good thing that we are starting to work with a climate science council. then maybe we'll be better at listening to the science. of course, we should have done so decades ago, and if we had, then perhaps this proposal would have been ambitious enough.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the climate law clearly shows what often happens when politicians with little real-world experience want to solve a complex problem. the ideological blind spots are being left behind, the impact assessments are being neglected and more power for brussels is the solution. the phasing out of nuclear power and the focus on weather-dependent electricity generation will not solve the problems. instead, new ones are created. we're increasing our reliance on rare metals mined in countries with appalling working conditions. we're reducing the security of supply, raising the price of electricity, and creating new unresolved waste problems. no, in the spirit of socialism, they want to regulate everything in our lives. they want to control how we produce, consume, live, work, eat, build, design, heat, travel and transport goods. the commission itself also believes that the impact on global average temperature is, at best, minimal. no, we don't need a planned economy or misguided investment. we need thoughtful decisions, competitiveness, research and... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, i would like to thank you. today, we are about to make a historic decision that will affect the freedom and well-being of people all over the world for generations to come. a decision that is crucial to the very life of this planet. i'm proud of you. deeper european cooperation is exactly what is needed. ambitious and binding targets to reduce emissions that destroy the climate. the liberals would have liked to go further, but the eu's climate law is needed and is a big step forward. as a liberal, i'm a technology optimist, but innovation and cheerfulness alone will not solve the climate crisis. anyone who runs a marathon knows that the latest running shoes and a smile on your face are not enough. clear goals are needed for good results. the climate crisis is a long-distance race. we will use the best technology, take advantage of digitalisation and develop electrification. the clock is ticking. we'll reach our goals on time.
madam president! among the objectives of the slovenian presidency, two caught my attention. one very neglected one is the issue of negative demographic trends in europe that are likely to determine its future. the second objective, which has been a major focus for the last few years, is the rule of law. the slovenian presidency promises us equal criteria for all. it can be assumed that this presidency understands well the current lack of such equality. but i would like to ask whether this equality will also apply to the european commission and the other eu institutions. the day before yesterday, 29 german constitutionalists criticized the european commission for initiating a procedure for infringement of the treaty in connection with the ruling of the federal constitutional court. they accuse the commission of undermining the principles of european integration, of acting contrary to the provisions of the treaty on european union and of infringing the laws of the member states. as we can see, attempts to apply the equality criteria can lead to unexpected discoveries made in the past, including by german constitutionalists.
madam president, it is evident that the current migration policies do not work for anyone, not the people in right of asylum, not for our member states and not for our citizens. we are now at a crossroads. either we continue causing further division between member states with internal borders within our union, or we move towards a more responsible and harmonised common european approach to migration. the decision should be easy. the political deadlock cannot continue. we need to move forward. prime minister janša, i urge you to find a pragmatic way forward, try to unite the member states on a common position that will stop irregular migration, prevent secondary movement, stop the deaths at the mediterranean sea and rebuild trust that the european union can deliver on migration.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the commission, the prime minister. in march, the commission presented its annual report on gender equality in the eu. the report explains that the pandemic has exacerbated the lack of gender equality in almost all areas of life, both within and outside europe. the results of equality achieved through many years of hard work have been destroyed. yes, that is exactly what the commission is saying. when gender equality goes backwards, it affects the fundamental rights of both women and girls. it also affects the eu's economy and the conditions for building a strong and sustainable europe. but it's not just gender equality that's been affected. all over europe we see our fundamental rights, our democracy and our common values under attack. the latest, hungary's new law that violates lgbtq rights, is a frightening example. the values of the eu, as we know them so well, are those of inclusion, tolerance, justice, solidarity and gender equality. yes, europe is at a critical juncture and we cannot afford to put any of these issues on hold. so now that slovenia is taking over the presidency, the work on gender equality, the rule of law, democracy and our common values must continue. and that, i want to hear prime minister janša stand up for.
mr president i am confident that the approval of interinstitutional agreements and the simplification of ten-t financing and administration processes will help to build the missing links and strengthen north-south connectivity, especially between the eu's central and eastern member states. however, in order to achieve full european connectivity, the western balkans region must not be forgotten. the european commission's new investment plan for the western balkans already supports infrastructure projects in the region, such as the renewal of the railway line linking belgrade to north macedonia, with hundreds of millions of euros. these routes will be organically linked to the ten-t corridors and therefore the legal link between the ten-t regulation and the various western balkans projects needs to be established now. the process of revising the ten-t regulation is a good opportunity to do this, and the western balkan countries should be intensively involved. only then can we finally achieve a legislative proposal that reflects the european continent as a whole.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i am very pleased that the cef has been extended for another budget period until 2027. and above all, i am pleased that the emphasis has been on synergies between the transport, energy and digital sectors. it is important to accelerate the green transition. it is therefore very important to pay more attention to the development of alternative fuels infrastructure, but also to encourage the shift to combined transport. we have to remember that in some parts of europe, this infrastructure is almost non-existent, but instead, we invest in agencies that favor coal, for example. i think it is also very important that we complete the sections of the ten-t core network that have been started in a short time, especially the various transport corridors, because if we look at the state of completion, for example, of the very important via carpatia corridor, only 10% of the 700 km section in poland has been completed, or 75 km.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is appropriate to discuss this transport legislation at a time when large parts of europe are going on summer holidays. slowly but surely, it will be possible to travel again. but based on how the pandemic is developing and hopefully once it's over, we're going to have to change the way we travel. we need to fly less and travel more by train, the most sustainable way to travel. the vote we take today will help a small part of the way to change more to the train. i hope that the commission will take up our recommendations on how to use europe's railways more efficiently and that this law will make eu aid for new lines more flexible and less bureaucratic. but there is still much to be done. we must also look at what eu money can actually do in the transport sector. pipelines and rebuilding bridges to handle tanks is the wrong way to go. that's not what this fund is supposed to be for, not for the military, but for promoting sustainable transportation instead. the added value that the eu can bring is in the railways, and the effort should be to remove bottlenecks and missing tracks between european countries so that we can build a coherent european rail network. this is what we need to promote sustainable transport.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have finally concluded and happily concluded the negotiations on the connecting europe facility, for which we have 33 billion euro available, of which almost 26 billion is for transport, and what is more important is that we will be able to co-finance at a loss up to 55% of the investments of the member states. but physical infrastructure is not enough, we also need technology, high technology to ensure safety, especially in rail transport. that's why the ertms challenge is central. today we are actually applying this technology only at high speed and in a differentiated way between the various member states. the point now is to harmonize the ertms systems so that they can talk to each other in the various countries. my country, italy, has experimented on the genoa-rotterdam route and has even invested heavily, putting some 3 billion into its pnrr. like having shared governance? we propose an agency and why not an ertms agency in italy which is investing so much in this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable member for the commission, the honourable member for the council, the honourable member for the commission, the honourable member for the council, the honourable member for the commission, the honourable member for the council, the honourable member for the commission, the honourable member for the council, it is extremely positive that agreement has been reached on the cef and i would urge all colleagues to vote in favour of ratifying the agreement. this is an important tool to support the connectivity of the outermost regions to the rest of europe through the development of infrastructure networks. the competitiveness of the european union globally depends on the competitiveness of all member states. convergence between member states is therefore in the interest of the union as a whole. it should also be borne in mind that the development of infrastructure is not incompatible with climate objectives. the environmental performance of a vehicle depends primarily on the fuel used, not on the infrastructure it travels on, be it road or rail. investments in infrastructure are in any event investments in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? transport policy is one of the areas where the eu can create the greatest added value for its citizens and businesses. by working together and co-financing robust transport corridors, we can make it easier for businesses to create new jobs and for people to access the jobs that are created. it is very good that we are today securing the continuation of the connecting europe facility so that we can roll out more double-track rail, widen more roads to motorways and increase the capacity of the eu ports. this is how eu money should be used, for things that generate real competitiveness. because when we remove bottlenecks on the busiest routes, it will be easier for industries to get their goods out, and citizens will not have to waste hours in car queues and on delayed trains. this is therefore of great importance as we look to restart europe's economy after the crisis. so let us use this opportunity to equip europe and put a higher gear in the transport network. then we can build a strong and united europe.
madam president, democracy is under attack right now, both by internal forces in our union as well as by foreign forces, and both offline and online. offline we see erdoğan and turkish authorities spreading their tentacles into our union in their aim to pursue dissidents, many times kurdish dissidents. and xi jinping and chinese authorities send threatening emails to eu journalists like the freelance journalist jojje olsson at the swedish newspaper expressen. online we constantly see how putin in russia, but also chinese authorities, spread fake news about the eu, elections in member states and parties that are not pro-putin. even worse is that some of the foreign dictators link arms with their like-minded in the eu: orbán in hungary and kaczyński in poland. i now ask mr borrell: how is the commission ensuring that the policies that aim to combat foreign interference also lead to consequences for those eu government leaders who link arms with foreign leaders that attack our democracies?
madam president, the eu global human rights mechanism regime was adopted just six months ago, and it is without a doubt one of the most forceful tools in defence of respect for human rights. it is hard on people and companies responsible for human rights violation, but spares innocent citizens that might otherwise have been hit by other kinds of sanctions. in these six months, the mechanism has already been applied to individuals and companies in several countries. however, the potential of the mechanism is much greater and we should strive to enhance it as well as increase parliament’s involvement in the process. i also want to join the call for the inclusion of crimes of corruption in the sanctions regimes, as corruption, bad governance and human rights violations often go hand—in—hand.
mr president, 2019 – a country going towards the right direction. 2020 and still in 2021 – a country with negative development. it is enough. all the people of ethiopia deserve democracy and equality now. the spiral of war and conflict must end. tigray and other regions are suffering from violence and human rights violations, regional and ethnic tensions. there needs to be an independent investigation into the war crimes taking place in tigray, and international organisations must access tigray to provide the people with emergency needs. the ethiopian central government needs to facilitate an inclusive national dialogue with minority communities, political parties and wider civil society to try to find a lasting political solution and peace for the country, peace for the people. genuine and constructive engagement by all actors is the only way to restore peace and stability in ethiopia. here the eu can have an important mediating role.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, like ostriches, the left continues to bury their heads in the sand to avoid seeing all the plight and misery of open borders. this annual report on schengen does not contain a single reference to terrorist attacks, migrants entering europe illegally, drug smuggling, human trafficking or the organised crime groups from abroad that burglarise and terrorise swedish homes and property owners. are you really so ignorant now? your ignorance, like the ostrich, with its head buried in the sand to avoid predators, is a myth. you do know what’s going on. to my centre-right colleagues, if you, especially those who claim to be tough on crime, vote for this report, then either you know but you don’t care, or your devotion to eu integration far surpasses your concern for your constituents.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, just before the council, i urged the members of the european council to be concerned with one thing only, namely the preservation of the union's values. values which, i remind you, are the foundation of our common home. i said in my heart, a house without foundation shall fall. i am naturally pleased that for the first time, or at any rate for one of the first times, a real debate has taken place in the council. this is all the more so since, even if the trigger was the situation created by the hungarian government, it is true that the rule of law and the fundamental values of the union are in retreat. as manfred weber said, it is not just hungary or poland, which are often mentioned here. the same decline is observed in the north - i am thinking of the measures adopted by the danish government on asylum and immigration. i am thinking of the corruption and money laundering that can be seen in the mediterranean basin. i am thinking of the collection of personal data that we see in a country like france. i think that many european states today are trampling on the union's fundamental values. it is therefore high time that we move beyond the indignation, the consternation, the worries and concerns that we may have. it's time to move on. so what does it mean to take action? i note that very often the governments which impose retreat on the rule of law use as an argument the defence - and i quote them in their recent statements - of the traditional christian values of the union against the monster in brussels. as a christian, i cannot help but remind mr orbán, mr bay, that the gospel calls us to welcome the stranger, to care for the most vulnerable, to unite rather than divide. but beyond this false fight, what is happening is that the attacks on the law, the rule of law and the fundamental values of the union have in fact an objective: to cement the power of a party, the power of a man, with the exclusive purpose of taking advantage of the exercise of this power to enrich themselves, to enrich the leaders, to enrich their friends. so contrary to what some people say when they say that we should not make a link between money and defending values, i think we should hit those who try to abuse our good faith with the wallet. so, madam president, i am glad to hear what you have decided to do, but please show us some action. i know you're planning a lot, but at some point, you have to see them. they must be visible and the impact, especially the financial impact, must be felt by the states which are in breach. mr michel, i want to tell you one thing, and that is that i have noted the protests of 17 heads of state and government in the council. i remind them that they are also free to go to the european court of justice individually and that they might be a little more credible if they took action. and on that, a final word. thank you, mr president, for letting me conclude on that. i understand the concern to ensure the collegiality of the european council, but at some point we must accept the fact that there are conflicts. it's true about the rule of law, it's true about migration, it's true about climate. we cannot always want unanimity. you have to accept that at some point, a majority decides.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, three billion more for turkey is the decision taken by the council which you, mrs von der leyen, were very happy to announce. you may be hoping that erdoğan will show his gratitude by reserving a seat for you at your next meeting. this new envelope extends the agreement between the european union and turkey on migrants. while ankara is supposed to control the flow of migrants in return for this money, it is in fact given a new means of pressure. our parliament is quick to denounce the exploitation of migrants by morocco and belarus. it would be good if he finally decided to punish turkey's actions. the council also welcomes, and i quote, the 'de-escalation in the eastern mediterranean'. this is probably one of the reasons for the new billions. when erdoğan shows the fangs, the european union does not dare to respond. when he calms down for a very short time, without admitting his wrongdoing, brussels rushes to congratulate him, hoping to soften him up. but neither money nor appeasement will stop him from spitting in our faces. turkey immediately reacted, saying that three billion is not enough. erdoğan wants more, always more. it is also attacking once again the sovereignty of cyprus, whose territory has been occupied by the turks for almost 50 years. turkey, which continues to colonize the island, demands the creation of two states. by refusing to play the game of force against this country which openly threatens us, sends us thousands of migrants and violates the air and sea spaces of european countries, the european institutions are not up to the challenge. they continue to believe that they can get along with erdoğan by making more and more concessions. what will brussels give him this time? visa liberalization or, of course, a modernisation of the customs union. it is time to say stop and finally put a formal and irreversible end to the process of turkey's accession to the european union. finally, since the subject was raised by the council, i cannot help but mention the scandalous lawsuit brought against hungary over its draft law against paedophilia. the allegations of discrimination and homophobia are pure disinformation, as can be seen by taking the time to look for two minutes at the actual content of this text. hungary wants to protect its children from the delusions of gender ideology and transidentity. the hysteria surrounding this case shows that budapest is right to want to limit the propaganda of an increasingly aggressive and demanding lgbt communitarianism.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council at the end of june was supposed to be an opportunity for real change on a number of issues. listening to the debate this morning, however, i must say that perhaps we, mr sassoli, have the wrong title because it seems to me that little is said about the outcome of the european council and much is said instead of what happened a few hours before the european council and that it is therefore very curious that a debate like the one we are witnessing has been launched, which is certainly a very questionable debate in some aspects, even formal ones, mr president of the commission, because if the chairman of a parliamentary group, mr cioloş, officially announces that a national plan has been suspended, obviously in the absence of a decision by the commission, this is very serious, because the commission should and could initiate a procedure in this regard, but it has certainly not decided anything from what officially appears. and it is also very serious that today there are a number of speeches and positions which have nothing to do with the actual contents of what we should be discussing here in the chamber today, mr president michel, with regard to certain matters. and i refer to the issue of immigration to make a very clear reference, which is an issue where, once again, it was preferred not to decide by postponing every solution until october, when we would have needed immediate, urgent progress, but this is little talked about. we will talk about it hypocritically in the coming months when we may see tens and tens and tens of thousands of people landing on the coasts of southern europe from italy, and there we will tell the whole system that in october the european commission will make a proposal, but in the meantime we attack hungary because this is more convenient at the moment, rather than tackling the real issues, the issues for which also on the issue of immigration nothing is done on the one hand, but much is done on the other, because it is decided to renew the 2015 agreement and disburse about three and a half billion euros in contributions to turkey, highlighting once again the contradictions and the hypocrisy that reign within the european institutions, because in that case, the issue of condemning the lack of respect for human rights and above all the state disappears from our range of action. let's not talk about it anymore. we are giving three and a half billion euros and we are moving forward with regard to an urgent need which concerns parts of europe and which does not address the overall context in a serious and credible way. and so i think it is unacceptable to look at the situations we are facing in this house, ignoring what is happening, because at this moment there are some ngos that are cruising around the mediterranean full of illegal immigrants and we do not know where the landing point will be and above all we are not in a position at european level to give a response in this sense, because the situation is being dealt with with an agenda that does not look at the real and true needs. we would have liked to have spoken more about this in this debate, we would have liked to have spoken more about national recovery and resilience plans than about the effectiveness of their action, we would have liked to have spoken about economic recovery and what a system of interventions on the subject of enterprises, in particular small and mediumsized enterprises, must be and must be the focal point of the relaunch of economic action in the european context. we must try to look at a context in which i think that today's debate has missed a great opportunity to deal with the real issues and above all to take refuge in questions of principle and of a general nature on which no one is called out. we shall be discussing the rule of law, we shall be discussing the issues that are being raised, but it is not possible that in a parliamentary debate such as this one a solution is indicated, a judgment is given, a decision is taken in advance on something on which there is no real discussion, but above all there has been no detailed discussion and no opportunity to open this debate. that is why i am disappointed by this debate and would have preferred that today's debate focused on the issues that really concern the citizens and above all that there was, within these institutions, a concept which is that of respect, even for those who think differently and not the idea of pushing forward with strength and determination a single thought to which we personally can never in any way convince ourselves and surrender.
mr president, i would like to welcome back president von der leyen and president michel to the european parliament. presidents, you both spoke about the protection of european values and about the rule of law. this is very important and it is very good. let me be very clear. hate and exclusion have no place in the european union. europe means integration. it means diversity. it means protecting all citizens, including all types of minority. at the moment, we tolerate hate and exclusion in the european union. we can all fall victims. this is exactly why we all together have to protect our european union. and we as european institutions have a special responsibility because whenever people speak up for the values of the free world, they do that with the flag of the european union in their hands. they tell us very clearly, ‘we expect you as european institutions to defend european values’. this my first point. secondly, on the rule of law, the european union means that people can travel freely, they can choose where they work, where they live and where they study in the european union. and this is exactly why we have to make sure that the law applies in every corner of the european union and that people who respect the law are protected in every corner of the european union and those who breach the law are sanctioned. this is exactly why the european union has a special responsibility in protecting the rule of law in every corner of the union as well as protecting the eu budget. during the coming years, the european union will spend more money than ever. the more we spend, the more we need to make sure that money really reaches its intended beneficiaries. the more we spend, the bigger our duty to be transparent also is. transparency is sometimes difficult to achieve, but it is the right thing. this is why we also, as the european parliament, want to make sure that whenever money is being spent, it’s being spent for the good of the people. people expect to see concrete results. for the recovery and resilience facility, president michel, president von der leyen, you mentioned that we provided for a strong goal for the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo), for the european anti-fraud office (olaf), and we also ask for the transparency of all final beneficiaries. the european commission has to insist to member states that this happens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's news was that 250 million european citizens have downloaded the covid pass, a good start for the certificate which will allow the return to safe free movement throughout europe from 1 july. at the same time, the first national recovery and resilience plans have been approved by the commission and member states will soon be able to get an advance of next generation eu financial resources to put in place measures to support citizens and businesses. two achievements, the green pass and the next generation eu, achieved by putting european solidarity, cooperation between member states, in the foreground, whereas even after the last council meeting we continue to see neither european solidarity nor common solutions in the field of migration policies and the management of asylum applications. it is indeed strange that, while the summer season brings a renewed wave of shipwreck tragedies in the mediterranean, the conclusions of the last council make no reference to the deadlock in which the revision of the dublin regulation continues to be left, much less have they dealt with the issue of coordinated management of rescue operations at sea and the compulsory relocation of asylum seekers with the necessary urgency. intensifying the union's external action through partnerships and cooperation with the countries of origin and transit of migrants is important but not enough. we must look at ourselves and be clear: we cannot continue to leave the countries of first arrival alone. we therefore make our values prevail, they do not accept derogations from shameful laws that discriminate against the homosexual community, but among our values is also to defend the dignity of the human person from wherever in the world he comes.
i have to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when i think of the themes and the outcome of the june council meeting, i am struck by the famous film from the 1990s: 'and the groundhog says hello every day'. now, most of you may remember the movie with bill murray, where a person was also caught in a time loop and experiences the same thing every day. and many people here probably feel the same way, where the same issues have been raised for many months, if not years, but the corresponding solutions have not been presented. on 24 and 25 june, the topics of migration and turkey were discussed again. and again, there are no satisfactory solutions. we know from recent studies that up to five million people from africa and the middle east are pouring into europe. we also know that two thirds - if not more - of the people here will not have the status of either a convention refugee or a beneficiary of subsidiary protection. and it will be that of those who came here and do not have this status, the overwhelming majority - two-thirds to three-quarters - will also stay. so, no solutions from the european union. the next one is turkey, where we know that turkey does not want to join the european union and there is not really room or consensus for this. but they're still getting paid. you're setting the subject wrong. in this context, i am very, very pleased that a coalition of 15 different countries has recently been formed: 16 parties that want to bring europe into a good future, that want to signal the light at the end of the tunnel, that want to move europe away from centralism back to pluralism and more democracy.
madam president, president of the european council, president of the commission, all my solidarity to our dutch people, to our dutch colleagues and to all the journalists today. gostaria de começar por dizer que, para o ppe e para o psd, a lei húngara que discrimina as pessoas lgbti é intolerável e, por isso mesmo, pedi hoje palavra no debate que se segue para tomar uma posição que seja diferente da posição tíbia de neutralidade que a presidência portuguesa do conselho começou por tomar. e agora permita-me, a respeito do conselho desta semana, dizer que é inaceitável a situação que vivemos agora com o certificado digital covid. porquê? porque há, neste momento, países, e eu posso dizer que isso me aconteceu a mim, e vi centenas de cidadãos portugueses a quem isso aconteceu, que, vacinados, com certificado digital, com teste negativo, com declaração de viagem essencial e dispostos a fazer a quarentena se necessário, foram impedidos de entrar nos aviões com direção a frankfurt ou a baden- baden. não foi para isto que nós aprovamos o certificado digital. um cidadão que tem certificado, que tem teste negativo, que tem uma declaração a dizer que é necessária a sua viagem, é impedido de entrar num avião com que argumento? qual é o estado-membro que tem poder ou capacidade para fazer isto depois de termos aprovado o certificado digital covid da ue? é justamente por isso que eu julgo que é fundamental que a comissão tome uma posição dura para com todos os estados. restrições são admissíveis, mas devem ser proporcionais e devem ser uniformes. o critério que os estados-membros utilizam deve ser igual para todos os estados-membros. se têm de restringir devido à pandemia devem restringir. mas se as pessoas têm certificado, teste negativo, e têm um motivo para viajar, não há razão nenhuma para as impedir. só assim seremos capazes de restaurar o espaço schengen.
madam president, madam president of the commission, mr president of the council, i would like to begin by paying tribute to samuel luis muñiz, a 24-year-old man beaten to death while being called 'gay' - a crime that has shocked the whole of spain, europe, the lgbti community, and a crime that should remind us that we are far from equality and that we must protect ourselves from hate speech. we also saw recently in tbilisi, georgia, what has happened with the pride march and the persecution of the lgbtq community. this cannot be tolerated in europe or anywhere else in the world, and the european institutions must send a clear message: we are with them and we are going to protect them. and that starts with taking strong action against the new hungarian law. moreover, because in this debate on the new hungarian law we are playing with something fundamental, which is the foundations of the european house. some autocrats in europe would like our fundamental rights, the treaties, to be something that is done by hand, that some days are fulfilled and some days are not. we've been playing this debate too hard and we're a little late. it is time for strong action, and the commission must take and use all the powers it has in its hands to prevent this from continuing in this way.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on illegal immigration europe has scandalously abandoned italy. 21,000 illegal immigrants have landed in italy in the last six months. 800 dead in the mediterranean. the commission and the european council have decided to leave italy completely alone. the most scandalous thing is that brussels, instead of helping our country, has decided to give billions of euros to the islamic dictator erdoğan's turkey. i am not going to go into the details of the situation. stop treating italians like fools. in a year and a half, only 2.2% of the immigrants who landed in our country were relocated. if you want to turn italy into europe's refugee camp, say so clearly, and do not be afraid of european solidarity. the italian government must act quickly and must proceed with border controls, closure of ports, expulsion of illegal immigrants. because if we wait for help from europe, which there will be, in the coming months italy will be overrun by an invasion of illegal immigrants.
madam president, we agree that it has not been an easy six months for the portuguese presidency. but the results of the last meeting with the portuguese leadership are frustrating to say the least. frustrating because, in the face of the clear violation of the rule of law by the hungarian government and the passage of a law that discriminates and attacks the lgbtiq+ community, the portuguese government has decided to maintain neutrality - as if there could be neutrality in human rights. frustrating because once again, we continue to make progress in the fundamental decision to lift the patent and fight covid-19 on a global scale without creating more inequality and more difference. frustrating because every step that is taken, and a very modest step towards an asylum protection law, is taken while at the same time continuing to negotiate with erdogan and paying turkey to continue to detain migrants and suspend their rights. we'll also agree, for all that, it wasn't a good goodbye.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure for me to make this speech in italian today. at the last council, president michel said that non-discrimination against lgbti people is part of the dna of the union. no country can therefore claim to be part of the union if it does not respect this principle. however, hungary recently passed a homophobic law that bans the mention of homosexuality in textbooks and in tv programs for minors. in poland there are municipalities that declare themselves free of lgbti people. this week in spain, the supreme court banned public buildings from displaying the lgbti flag. these public actions encourage the most intolerant sectors of our society to intensify their hate speech against the lgbti community, which ends up legitimizing physical violence, threats, beatings, group attacks and even murders, as in the case of samuel, the 24-year-old gay man who was brutally beaten to death in galicia just a few days ago. we need a union that acts strongly against lgbti-phobia. we need more than words and speeches, we need concrete action and bold policies.
madam president, the current migration policies do not work, neither for the migrants, the member states, nor our citizens. as chair of the committee on development and the rapporteur on the regulation on asylum and migration management, i do share the view of the council conclusion that mutually beneficial partnership and cooperation with our countries are important to prevent the loss of life, reduce the pressure on the european borders, and to address the root causes of migration. the external dimension of migration needs to be an integrated part of the migration policies, but also in the development aid policies. the european union is the world’s largest donor of development aid. it gives us financial and political means for a global responsibility to address injustices and inequalities in the world directly with third countries. we can and should do more to help people in the countries of origin and transit, which also gives the necessary assistance to the developing countries. in turn, this will reduce irregular migration to the union. debate on the external dimension of migration and asylum, including effective ways to address the root causes, should not be taboo in the european union. we have to face this and we have to find pragmatic ways to go forward. the council’s conclusion, i would say, is a first good step and i now welcome that we will have a focus on the external dimension of migration. i really think that europe can step up our game and try to deliver better.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the commission and the council! as a social democrat, i would like to speak today on the point which was not on the formal agenda of the european council. i want to speak about the fundamental values of the equal value of human beings, about the rule of law and that it is totally unacceptable that we have member states that violate these. the latest: the hungarian government, which is introducing a new law that violates lgbtq people and the eu's fundamental values. then this should be a priority on the council's agenda. the hungarian government has attacked academic freedom, freedom of the press and civil society. the council of ministers has refused to ratify the istanbul convention, and orban has repeatedly violated other lgbtq people. time is passing without any concrete action by the eu. the conditionality mechanism must be put into effect. the president, ursula von der leyen, has said that she will use all the powers of the commission to ensure this. but now these measures must be specified. now they must be carried out. now the eu must protect once and for all our fundamental rights, our democracy and our common values.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, minister, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. when poland and hungary wanted to join the eu, you committed yourselves to certain values. you entered the eu by meeting the copenhagen criteria. it is not an entrance ticket; it is a contract that must be kept, day after day. you entered the treaty of lisbon with your eyes open, where the second article already guarantees the human rights of all our citizens in the eu. values of the rule of law, women's autonomy to control their own bodies, lgbtq rights that are also human rights. mr. secretary of state. i have to say it one more time in front of everyone. swedish taxpayers' money should not go to authoritarian governments that systematically undermine the rule of law, systematically discriminate against lgbtq people, undermine media freedom and build corrupt systems. my eu is not to be an atm for orbán in hungary or kaczyński in poland or any other illiberal leader in the eu. it is time to show by action, commissioner. the eu must make the democratic lock on the eu budget a reality and choke money off authoritarian states that do not respect the human rights of their citizens.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i have to ask you. on monday, i went to strasbourg with my new covid certificate. it was made possible after a rapid procedure in parliament to safeguard the free movement of people in europe. we are now making it easier for eu citizens to travel more safely for work, to see relatives, family, friends or for holidays. the urgent work to get the certificates in place was important and it is gratifying that millions of people now have access to their certificates. but at the same time i am concerned about the numbers of people who are willing and able to get vaccinated. a survey carried out in the eu in may shows that one in five citizens do not intend to get vaccinated at all this year. the covid certificate is an important proof that you have been vaccinated, tested negative or recovered. but it is also important that we ensure that all citizens have full access to reliable and accurate information about why it is good and important to vaccinate. vaccinations are of the utmost importance, and we always say it: no one is safe until everyone is safe. i would therefore ask the commission: what initiatives will the commission take to ensure that all eu citizens are properly informed about the importance of vaccination?
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. commissioner, please! the covid-19 pandemic has undoubtedly demonstrated the importance of strengthening our collective preparedness and response capabilities. we need to build on the lessons of the pandemic and create a balanced and efficient structure within the eu, so that we are better equipped for the future. the citizens of the eu expect this of us. in that perspective, it is entirely reasonable and logical to also strengthen the european medicines agency, to enable the agency to act more quickly and more safely and in a more coordinated way in crisis situations. this is about supporting and preventing shortages of critical medicines and medical devices. but it's also about speeding up the development of drugs to fight the diseases that are causing a crisis. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to strengthen the role and mandate of the european medicines agency. i would like to take this opportunity to thank mr gonzález casares for the excellent work he has done on this report. the pandemic has shown that the authority did not have a strong enough mandate or sufficient resources, and this must not happen again. it is therefore good that the report highlights and strengthens preventive measures, as well as the role of healthcare professionals and the importance of good cooperation between different eu agencies. a stronger ema means better opportunities for the eu to address future challenges and pandemics, and that is why we in the s&d group hope that we can adopt this regulation as soon as possible. we need it now and our member states need it.
the committee on agriculture has tabled an opinion. the president! a very big thank you to my colleague, grace o'sullivan, for working on this report. the programme was somewhat overshadowed by the commission's green deal. that's too bad. we know that legislation weighs heavier than the green deal strategies, and we have also seen in other policy areas how strategies and legislation itself do not always go hand in hand. i therefore sincerely hope that the commission and the council will take up the suggestions for improvement in the report put forward by my colleague, mrs grace o'sullivan. unlike the commission's proposal, we emphasize systemic change and a global perspective and call on the commission to develop indicators beyond gdp. we really need to have ways to measure economic progress, how it's connected to both our well-being, the well-being of people, but also the well-being of the planet. we need it to be able to succeed with everything from the 2030 agenda, the paris agreement, the un convention on biological diversity and so on. ecology should be the basis of the economy and not the other way around. nor, to do justice to its name, should it be merely a monitoring mechanism that provides information. it must also be forward-looking, with concrete actions, tools that identify problems and solutions and contribute to change, real change.
author. – madam president, commissioner, this is a dark period for the iranian people, the people that, just like us, deserve to live in freedom, dignity and democracy. the recent sham elections are reason enough to act. but the fact that mr ebrahim raisi was elected president makes action imperative. mr raisi has blood on his hands. he was a member of the death panel that ordered the executions of thousands of political prisoners. he must be investigated for crimes against humanity, including murder and forced disappearance and torture. as co-author of this resolution, i and the ecr group support the use of the eu magnitsky act against iranian officials. the ecr calls on the european institutions to join with international human rights organisations to hold those responsible for human rights violations to account. finally, the eu must demand the immediate release of our fellow citizen, dr djalali. it’s a moral obligation. i’m therefore pleased the resolution calls for targeted sanctions on those involved in the arbitrary detention and sentencing to death of eu nationals. i urge you, commissioner, to enforce the resolution with the utmost dedication and persistence.
madam president, i would like to thank you. my colleagues. when fundamentalism and extremism are allowed to rule, democracy, freedom of speech, freedom of the press, equality and dissent become the enemy. the iranian regime has demonstrated this time and again. iran has the highest per capita execution rate in the world. swedish-iranian ahmadreza djalali and other prisoners of conscience must be released immediately. it is good that the eu has, among other things, extended previous measures such as banning the export of technology that could be used for the purpose of interception and other means of suppressing opposition dissent. it is also good that the eu's new global sanctions mechanism has now been used against eight individuals and three entities. this means that 89 individuals and four entities are now sanctioned for human rights violations in recent years. but it is not acceptable that since our last discussion last year on the situation in iran, no member state of the eu has been able to meet its citizens who have been deprived of their freedom on purely arbitrary grounds. many of them are even in danger of being killed. unless ahmadreza djalali and all other prisoners of conscience are immediately released, not a single representative of the iranian regime will be able to set foot in our union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. freedom of expression and of the press has always been and will always be a threat to dictatorships and oppressive regimes. that's why the attacks are the most intense, even in hong kong. according to the 2021 reporters without borders press freedom index, the communist dictatorship in china continues to lead the league in the number of imprisoned press freedom defenders worldwide. since last year, they've also been running hong kong under the national security act they put in place. those who do not kneel before the dictatorship and xi jinping are imprisoned and many are murdered. the only crime they committed was to thirst for freedom and to let the power of the word speak its own language about the oppression in hong kong by the regime in china. most recently, the apple daily newspaper was shut down on june 24, and founder jimmy lai is in jail on trumped-up charges of participating in the 2019 demonstration that was said to pose a security threat. the national security laws must be abolished immediately and political prisoners must be released. for the eu, business as usual in trade relations cannot continue as the situation continues to deteriorate.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in a country where human rights are still a dream and arbitrary detention is a reality, the situation for children and young people is becoming even more alarming. saudi arabia is a country that has clearly shown how signatures on international commitments such as the convention on the rights of the child are not enough. with commitments comes the obligation to implement. today, children and young people are being imprisoned and murdered by the regime. the execution of mustafa hashem al-darwish and the continued imprisonment and death sentence of abdullah al-howaiti are hideous examples of the age-old methods used by the saudi regime, even against children and young people. the saudi regime's promises of improvements in human rights certainly sound good. but so far, little has been seen in reality. saudi arabia must ensure that it immediately begins to respect the commitments it has made itself, to protect children by ratifying the convention on the rights of the child, but also to respect human rights. the un and the eu have an obligation to all children and young people in the country: the death penalty must be stopped and those behind the executions must not go unpunished.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. while the pandemic has brought the problems of the aviation sector to the fore, the social problems are far from new. since the 1990s, we have seen a serious deterioration in working conditions, through increased outsourcing and a growing share of atypical forms of employment. an important principle of the european labour market is the principle of equal pay for equal work at the place where the work is carried out. this must also apply to the aviation sector. the remuneration of foreign staff shall not be lower than that of local staff. it is also crucial that we define the terms home base and operational base. workers must be covered by the wages, working conditions and social security systems of the country where they are based, not the country where the company is registered. an airline should not be able to register in a country where it does not have an operational base, simply to benefit from low taxes and weak labour laws. in this way, the eu becomes a threat to the wage earners. the swedish airlines are not without fault. in order to avoid re-employing its employees after the crisis, bra chose to set up a staffing company in order to circumvent its employer responsibility. the commission notes that the commission has not received any comments from sas on the restructuring plan. their operational base is in london. the only reason you're in ireland is to avoid taxes and employment. in some low-cost airlines, we know that not even half of the pilots are directly employed by the airline. this is not the kind of business model we should accept in the european union. however, airlines are not the only ones to blame. the european commission also has a responsibility for continuing to duck and delay the much needed revision of the regulation on common rules for the provision of air services within the eu. so my call to the european commission is to stop delaying this and present without further delay a revision of the regulation.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? when the pandemic broke out, it became clear that the eu did not have the tools required to manage a pandemic. in some cases, the tools were there, but they were not used in the best way. we've faced some tough challenges, and no one could have been prepared. now we know more. we know what a global pandemic can mean and the demands it places on the eu, on our member states and on our citizens. we also have a joint vaccination strategy. at the same time, we also know that there is much we do not know. we can't predict everything, but we can prepare for a lot. we can prepare for future pandemics and challenges. i think the eu should take responsibility for the shortcomings that have become apparent during the pandemic and the knowledge gaps that we have seen. we in the s&d group see the need for a stronger eu. we need to harness knowledge and data to effectively prevent, prepare and act. the eu ema has played an important role during the pandemic in providing scientific advice, which is good. however, data from the member states are rarely standardised or comparable. it is therefore important that we now take another step to strengthen that work. more coordination is needed between the eu bodies, between the national and international counterparts. dealing with the current pandemic and dealing with future threats to human health will be crucial for our future. we need good eu coordination and a common readiness for the future. it is indeed what our citizens in the eu expect, and it is also, in order to take the step fully, what is important for the people of the whole world.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? the increasing digitalisation means that the platform economy is growing and becoming an increasingly important part of our european economy. it opens up new possibilities, but unfortunately there are many examples of abuse and insecure relationships. the rules and standards of the labour market are being circumvented, which is completely unacceptable. the starting point must be to combat all forms of social dumping. regardless of where and how a job is done, our workers must be given good and equal conditions. that's the only way that free movement can work. in my country, sweden, we have collective agreements that regulate platform workers. i see how important this is. i know and understand that action is needed at eu level to deal with the crossborder problems. at the same time, it is clear that this must always be done with respect for national labour market models which are proven to work well.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it has come to our attention that you have written about trade union issues in one of the company's chat groups. so said the first line of an email in which a swedish gig company called an employee to the regional manager. you guys! a hundred years ago, the workers of europe stood with their hats in hand, waiting for work - without security, without rights, without a stable income. trade union struggle is the way to win the right to decent working conditions. now the hat is back. this time it's in the form of a cell phone. while there may be reason to praise gig companies for innovative apps, it is not innovation to oppose union organizing. it's not an innovation to pay starvation wages. it is not an innovation to let employees take the financial risk of missed trips. it's not the future. it's like taking the band back a hundred years. the eu cannot and should not solve all problems. but the eu must guarantee the fundamental rights of its citizens. this includes the right to organise in trade unions. it is a right which platform workers should also be able to exercise.
mr. president, i have to ask you... there is no question that we need to shift to environmentally friendly production and lifestyles. but this must not be done on the basis of ideology, but rationally, without undermining the union's competitiveness, without destroying industry and without making exports more expensive. we cannot make it more difficult for european citizens and businesses. the cost of the transition is not borne by them, but by the big polluters. if we do not do this, we will discredit the whole green policy for a long time. i therefore ask the commission to finally draw up an impact assessment of the burden broken down by member state and not to introduce a single carbon price in the private sector and in road transport because of its price-increasing effect. re-engineer the carbon tax in a way that is compatible with wto rules and find ways to compensate our companies in difficulty, especially smes. finally, the commission should resist political pressure, give fair and equal treatment to the member states and not hold back on political and ideological grounds from approving the hungarian and polish recovery plans. they should know that hungary will fulfill all its commitments, even from its own resources.
mr president, i would like to thank you. two months ago, the european parliament voted to approve the new european climate law. in doing so, we sent a strong signal and an important message, namely that we believe that climate and the environment are issues where european cooperation can and must make a real difference. the goal of climate neutrality is more important than ever. this is particularly true of the past summer, which saw extreme weather and new challenges for us - something that the latest ipcc report also showed and clarified. the new climate policy framework we are discussing gives us the opportunity to do so, and the decisions we make in the future simply have to be the right ones. we must reshape the european economy in a way that combines high ambition with guaranteed growth. we need a transformation that safeguards jobs, that safeguards prosperity, with a particular focus on market-based solutions. otherwise we will never have the legitimacy and support of our european citizens. it sounds like many people are content to have very high ambitions, but that's not really enough. we need achievable ambitions, high targets where businesses and people need to be helped and have a common understanding, so that we can achieve this together. we must respect the traditions of the member states and create the right conditions for the whole of society to change. it's the only way we can meet the climate challenge.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the climate challenge is the great destiny of our time. if we're going to succeed, we need to reshape the transportation sector. the commission is therefore encouraging ambitious proposals on sustainable aviation and maritime fuels. the commission will continue to work on the implementation of the new energy policy, and will continue to work on the implementation of the new energy policy. however, in addition to technical solutions, we will need popular support for climate change adaptation, and therefore we must share the costs of the transition fairly. the one with the most emits the most and therefore has to pay the most. climate change cannot be financed by car-dependent rural workers or the electricity bill of the nurse's assistant. all these people who live on the small margins, working poor, poor pensioners, those who need the car in their daily work, cannot bear the high cost. without public support, with a just transition as the guiding principle in the drafting of the legislation, we will never be able to become a climate-neutral union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! the eu is already the world's most climate-efficient region. even though our share, at just 9 percent of emissions, is decreasing and much of the rest of the world is increasing, there are now myriad regulations being put in place. whether our efforts will have any effect on the global climate we do not know, but what we do know is that the eu's expensive climate policies will lower our standard of living, increase energy poverty and make everyday life more expensive for ordinary people. we also know that european industry will have a very difficult time competing globally. the truth is that the eu is now creating a protectionist trading bastion, while the rest of the world, not least china, will be able to continue to consume cheap oil and gas. just because we choose to abstain, the outside world won't. we have never had more opportunities to make the right decisions, both for the climate and for prosperity, but instead we are betting on an irrational and anti-market model that the rest of the world will not emulate.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? forest fires, floods, too little water or too much water. climate-related disasters have increased fivefold in the past 50 years, according to the world meteorological organization. for me and others who have been following the climate issue for a long time, this is no surprise. we've known for a long time that continued global warming is leading to more and worse extreme weather events. it's going to get much worse -- already in the next decade -- when we go past 1.5 degrees, and then even worse when and if we go past 2 degrees. yet here in parliament we are discussing climate policy which is not even in line with the 2 degree target. this is the reason why the ambitions of the climate law and our climate policy are insufficient and why we must take several big steps now, raise our ambitions, not least in the run-up to and during the climate summit in glasgow in november, in order to also put pressure on the united states and china.
madam president, i would like to thank you. high representative borrell! why don't you help us deport afghan criminals? why do you not want to help the swedish people get rid of the serial rapist who raped a disabled woman in upplands väsby this spring, or the afghans who gang-raped a swedish mother of small children all night long in an asylum in mariannelund? the taliban have signalled a willingness to take in these afghan criminals. but returning afghans is not one of your five requirements for taliban contact. i'm giving you a chance here and now. now, assure the families of the victims that the eu is doing everything in its power to send serial rapists and other criminals who have no business in europe back home.
madam president, i would like to thank you. everyone knows that the lives of girls and women in afghanistan became a nightmare the day the taliban took power - a life without human rights, without the ability to move freely in the streets and squares, a life without being able to choose for themselves how they want to live. all of us who have listened to women in and from afghanistan in the last few weeks have heard the desperation. we can all take part in the testimonies and the evidence showing how those who protest against the taliban's insane coercion are beaten and killed. everyone knows that we are faced with a choice. are we going to let down the afghan girls and women and the human rights activists, lgbtq people and journalists? or are we going to show them and the rest of the world that the eu's foreign policy is based on values that are more than just pretty words?
madam president, i would like to thank you. the taliban terrorists' takeover of afghanistan is a failure for the free and democratic world. to call the international retreat, with the united states at the forefront, a failure would be the understatement of the century. the terrorist organization the taliban has already begun to systematically and deliberately trample on human rights, to erase women from public space, to attack and torture journalists. the next group is the minority groups, which form the historical and social fabric of afghanistan. many years of commitment and work by the international community, afghan organizations and citizens have been totally demolished. we need to take time to reflect and ask ourselves the questions: was it betrayal of the afghan people? what did we do wrong? we have the ability as a union to fight for the most vulnerable in afghanistan, but we must ensure that no money goes to the bloody hands of the taliban. we need a clear strategy and a long-term plan for humanitarian aid. it is not possible to legislate the removal of the taliban or to remove them with a press release from the commission ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. lebanon is currently in one of the world's, one of the century's worst economic crises. the lack of policies for ordinary people through socioeconomic improvements was clear when i was in beirut last week, together with my social democratic colleagues. lack of basic necessities such as food, clean water and basic medicines is the daily life of the lebanese people. the people are suffering the consequences of a thoroughly corrupt political system that must be changed from top to bottom. the tragic explosion last year made the situation even worse. the system in the country showed its worst side, and to this day no one has been held accountable. the explosion embodies the current situation: a chaotic situation, in which the people are the victims, with a lack of political will to solve it. it is good that a new government is in place, but it must now also deliver: combating poverty and inequality, eliminating corruption, ensuring that free and fair elections can be held as scheduled and that those responsible for the explosion in beirut are held accountable. a country that welcomes the most refugees per capita in the world needs support. that is why it makes me angry to hear that some in this parliament want to stop supporting the un agency unrwa. at the same time, i welcome the work to sanction those actors who do not take their responsibility for the good of the people. friends, i believe it is time for us to join the lebanese people in their demand for stability, justice and a secure future. and to the people of lebanon i want to say: (the speaker uses a non-official language).
madam president, i congratulate rapporteur vautmans on a good report. now, the eu funded the wuhan institute of virology. the purpose? a european virus archive, expressly aimed at, and i quote, ‘the production of viruses’. that is a fact. those eu funds may have contributed to the dangerous gain-of-function research that could be the source of covid-19. if the pandemic was indeed caused by a lab leak, ensuring this never ever happens again must be at the heart of our eu-china strategy. no more cover-ups. a full investigation. that is why this house should launch a special committee to examine the origins of covid-19 and whether any eu funding provided to the wuhan institute directly or indirectly contributed to, or enabled, gain-of-function research.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank you, mr von der leyen, for your speeches and your important promises. freedom and security, equality and gender equality, a green and sustainable europe, where people can feel confident about the future. yes, that is how we social democrats describe the world we want to live in. if we are to achieve this, it is time for the eu to step up. the un's climate panel shows that the climate situation is more serious than we thought, and that it is man who is the cause. the european institute for gender equality predicts that it will take over 60 years for the eu to be gender equal if we do not raise our ambitions. my granddaughter, who is seven years old and has just started school, should not have to wait until she is 67 to see europe equalised. it's urgent now. we need a faster climate change, with more green jobs for everyone. today, one in three women in the eu is unemployed. we must strengthen social europe and give real priority to gender equality. a directive on violence against women is needed if women are to live their lives free from violence. we must ensure that all member states stand up for our common values otherwise: no money. freedom and security, equality and gender equality. i want to see a green and sustainable europe, where people can feel confident about the future. then we must act now!
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu faces a choice: to look forward to a modern and democratic future or to look back to the past, after a time when democracy shone with its absence. the right-wing conservative government in poland is clear about where it stands: medieval ideas of misogyny, anti-lgbtq, lack of media freedom, politicization of the judiciary. this is no longer just a dream for these conservatives, but a reality, where they gain power. they are trying by all means to change polish institutions, laws and the constitution to benefit their power grab. one of the first things they do is to get a grip on the media. that's how dictatorships are born. the european union must now flex its muscles. it will be a pain in the ass for rogue governments that refuse to respect fundamental rights. fine the rogue government in poland. the european union's financial support for it. instead, increase support for the freedom-loving people, journalists and civil society organisations in poland, who are taking up the fight against forces that risk throwing us back decades.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. you guys! we are currently experiencing a pandemic that has existed longer than any other: men's violence against women. the reluctance of society to fight it has led to women and girls paying the ultimate price: their lives. if we listen closely enough, we can hear all the women and girls who are crying out for our help. society has turned its back on them for too long. instead of responding to the calls for help, some have been silenced at the hands of the perpetrators. others have had their freedom curtailed by living in hiding, and many live in fear for their lives. in our modern europe, dictatorships are allowed to flourish, but we women and girls suffer. there is no such thing as a fully democratic europe as long as people are murdered because of their gender or gender identity. a democratic europe requires a feminist europe. the work must begin at an early age. men's violence against women begins with boys' violence against girls. it is good that the commission will be presenting a proposal on gender-based violence. it's important, you know. colleagues, politics is about wanting change and direction. today is a very busy day. today we have to take a stand to ensure that the commission's legislative proposal is strong and that it includes not only all women and girls but also lgbtq people, who are exposed to murder, hatred, threats and violence every day.
madam president, i would like to thank you. now, you listen to me. one in three women in the eu has been the victim of violence at some point. every third woman! so crazy is the reality we live in. men's violence against women is everywhere. everywhere. in every room. it is violence that hurts, that creates insecurity, that divides families, that kills. it is unacceptable that the eu, which is founded on the principle of equality between men and women, does not have common and powerful tools to combat violence against women by men. we cannot, we must not, continue to betray the women who are abused, who are raped, who are denied the right to decide about their own bodies. everyone should have the right to live free from violence and oppression, and we must defend that.
mrs dalli, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one in three women, one in three of us have experienced gender-based violence, one in three has been in the position of the victim and had to prove that the responsibility lies with the perpetrator. one in three has seen the darker side of human relationships, sometimes even within the family home. the question is how many of the women who have experienced domestic violence, how many of the women who have experienced domestic violence, have found protection in the end. it is essential that gender-based violence is addressed with the strongest legislative framework that will act as a deterrent to anyone who feels that they can attack women, that they can attack lgbtqi people. today we must, today parliament must send a clear message, we must, without exceeding our powers, take the first step towards creating that legislative framework which will be a model for the whole world, a model for the protection of women, a model for the protection of lgbti people against gender-based violence, which will show once again that europe is a union of values. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we're already late.
madam president, when i was minister of justice in the czech republic, i was involved in the fight against violence against women, and i know very well that this is an extremely serious crime that often goes unpunished. female victims are afraid to go to the police, their requests are often dismissed by the community, and the legal proceedings themselves often fail to result in a conviction of the aggressors. it's hard to prove the perpetrator's guilt in court. i therefore believe that it is right that we are discussing this initiative today, i support this initiative and i am convinced that a unified european approach will lead to all member states starting to punish violence against women and that violence against women will finally be if not eradicated , then significantly suppressed from our society. i am convinced that this is necessary and that a uniform european approach is needed, because there are countries, including those in the european union, which do not have sufficient legislation in their legal systems to regulate this extremely dangerous practice.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? i'd like to repeat the most important sentence of the evening: one in three women in the eu has been a victim of violence. that is more than 90 per cent of the women in this parliament. every time a man violates a woman, it is one too many, and it must be stopped. the eu must act with vigour. this week is our chance. we are voting on a report which could be the basis for making gender-based violence a crime in the eu. we each of us here can stand up for the eu's fundamental values. it's about demanding human rights. women's rights are human rights. we're writing 2021. let us stand up for every woman and man, girl and boy, in all their diversity, to live a life free from violence. vote this one right!
i have to say, madam president, yes, there's a lot of talk about the pandemic, but not enough about the much longer shadow pandemic of violence, violence against women, violence against lgbti people. and so it is good to hear that you, commissioner, will be introducing a law to combat violence against women later this year. it's about time. because in our democracy we cannot simply accept that in austria, for example, almost every week a woman is murdered by her partner, ex-partner. i just got back yesterday. we therefore urgently need legally binding instruments, better cooperation across national borders, clear definitions, minimum standards and money. and we do this by adding violence against women as a eurocrime in a broad definition. hate online is one of them, and femicide is one of them. and yes, violence against women is a crime. let's put an end to this shadow pandemic once and for all!
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you and thank you all for your contributions this evening, and i totally agree with ms łukacijewska when she said that more men should have participated in this debate. that is exactly what i was thinking as i saw woman after woman take the floor. i feel that we are preaching to the converted here when we are between us women, so i agree with you totally. the past year and a half has been drastically marked by the pandemic, as we have all been saying, and millions of people around the world died because of the virus. but millions of women and children have suffered from gender-based violence and domestic violence because they were locked down with their offenders under the same roof, and had limited access to support. today we draw lessons from the pandemic. and today more than ever the commission stands behind the european parliament’s commitment to do everything the eu can do to fight gender-based violence. in addition to the two initiatives, which i mentioned before, the commission also takes numerous non-legislative measures that were also requested by parliament. i will mention just a few. we will be able to fight gender-based violence more effectively thanks to our increased funding under the new citizenship equality rights and values programme. we will benefit from improved statistical data, which many of you have mentioned, that will be collected by eurostat, the european institute for gender equality (eige) and the fundamental rights agency (fra). and our citizens, including victims of course, will be better informed about their rights thanks to currently prepared major eu awareness-raising campaigns. all these actions demonstrate that we share common goals. i look forward to continuing our good cooperation in achieving them for all women and girls across europe and beyond. as the president said this morning, this is about defending the dignity of each individual. it is about justice, because this is the soul of europe.
rapporteur. – madam president, i agree with commissioner dalli that, of course, we would like more men also to participate in this debate. but i want to thank every and each woman in here, every feminist, who is raising her voice, who does it in this hemicycle, at home, and who works every day tirelessly to end gender-based violence. you are the motors of this change. and yes, we speak about domination, discrimination, patriarchal power, sexism, gender, because in order to eradicate gender-based violence, we have to encompass this understanding. it is structural. it is not a random threat or random event. so any way you twist and turn to say that this is ideology, no: it’s about human rights, and we have the responsibility vote here and now to put an end to it. with this report we outline the way we expect the commission and the member states to step up actions. we are saying that our lives, our rights, our bodies will not be a battleground any more. we have defined what we need in terms of laws, prevention, protection of victims, and promotion of gender equality. i want to thank my co-rapporteur diana riba; i want to thank the shadows that worked with us all the way; and i want to thank everyone who votes in favour tomorrow. let’s eradicate gender-based violence.
it is my duty, in accordance with the rules of procedure, to inform you that even t-shirts with text on them may be interpreted as banners which are not allowed in the chamber. i'm sorry about that.
this conversation is over. the amendments are voted on today. the final vote will be delivered tomorrow, thursday, september 16, 2021. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. gender-based violence, offline and online, is the most serious form of gender discrimination and an unacceptable violation of the rights and principles enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union: the right to life and to physical and mental integrity, the right to human dignity, the right to liberty and security, the principle of non-discrimination, the principle of equality between men and women. according to the largest survey carried out at eu level, one third of women have experienced physical and/or sexual violence, and three quarters have experienced harassment at work. the pandemic has further exacerbated this situation, with the number of domestic and gender-based violence incidents increasing alarmingly. the european union must therefore act to eliminate this unacceptable phenomenon, with uniform action. to this end, the inclusion of gender-based violence as a criminal offence under article 83 tfeu can no longer be postponed in order to provide a legal basis for the adoption of a comprehensive directive, ensuring common definitions and standards. the directive will have to strengthen the prevention of gender-based violence, including by stimulating the cultural change needed to tackle its causes, ensuring protection and support for victims, and establishing uniform rules for the fight against and repression of these crimes.
before today's second vote, i would like to give the floor to mr juan fernando lópez aguilar, chairman of the libe committee, pursuant to rule 59 (4) of the rules of procedure, to refer the following reports back to committee for interinstitutional consultation: firstly, the report by mr jeroen lenaers amending council framework decision 2002/465/jha to bring it into line with eu rules on the protection of personal data (a9-0236/2021) and, secondly, the report by mrs marina kaljurandi on the european investigation order in criminal matters: bringing it into line with eu rules on the protection of personal data (a9-0237/2021). i now give the floor to the chairman of the libe committee, mr juan fernando lópez aguilar, for one minute. these requests will be voted on after the votes on the commission's proposals.
chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – madam president, thank you for the kindness of giving me the floor at this late hour of this plenary session in strasbourg. but with all respect, i would simply state that as chair of the libe committee, i’m requesting that the two following files are referred back to the libe committee (the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs) for interinstitutional negotiations under rule 59(4). first is the lenaers report amending the council framework decision regarding its alignment with eu rules on the protection of data, and the second one is the kaljurand report on the european investigation order in criminal matters, aligning also this piece of legislation with the rules on the protection of personal data.
i repeat that these requests will be put to the vote after the votes on the commission's proposals. i'm opening the second vote today. we are voting on the procedures announced on today's agenda. the vote will take place at 8.00 p.m. and 11.15 p.m. the voting procedure is the same as in previous elections. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i now declare the second ballot to be admissible. so you can vote until 9:15. the results of the second round of voting will be announced tomorrow, thursday, september 16, 2021, at 9:00 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 8.30 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission (o-000043/2021 - b9-0031/2021) by mr tomas tobén, on behalf of the committee on development, and mr norbert lins, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the eu contribution to the transformation of global food systems to achieve the sustainable development goals (o-000043/2021 - b9-0031/2021) (2021/2750 ((rsp)).
author. – madam president, let me introduce this oral question on behalf of the committee on development (deve) and the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri), which is shared by my colleague norbert lins, who could not be present this evening. the fact that our two committees joined forces shows that fighting hunger and malnutrition in the world is not only on the development agenda, but basically it is also our internal homework that we need to do in europe, linked to the green deal and the farm to fork strategy. food systems are complex and include the production, distribution and consumption of food. without eradicating hunger and malnutrition, we cannot make any progress on the 17 sustainable development goals. transforming the way we produce, distribute and consume our food is highly topical, also thanks to the food systems summit that will take place next week at the un general assembly. the attention is absolutely needed because we are far from reaching zero hunger by 2030. in fact, hunger has kept increasing since 2014 and malnutrition rates are very worrying. both have, of course, been made worse by the covid pandemic. in 2020, hunger went up. the report on the state of food security and nutrition in the world provides a very worrying global assessment. one in every ten people on our planet is currently undernourished. in africa, it is even double that, with one in five africans undernourished. the same appalling number is estimated globally for children under the age of five, with 22% of them suffering chronic malnutrition. we are talking about 150 million children. as we know, achieving sdg 2: ‘zero hunger’ is about ending hunger, but also about fighting malnutrition. that is why we look ahead to the nutrition for growth summit in tokyo in december. this parliament already adopted a resolution in november 2014, calling on the commission and the member states to mobilise investments for nutrition and especially to fight child malnutrition. i am proud to say that the european union was a nutrition champion at the first nutrition for growth summit in 2013, which pledged eur 3.5 billion until 2020. ahead of the next summit, the financing gap is significant so of course we need to continue the european leadership on this issue. however, our ambition should not stop there. it is not only a question on how to feed a growing population, reaching 10 billion by 2050, but also how to protect the livelihoods of nearly 500 million farmers worldwide and preserve the natural resources to secure food production. let me now read the question that we expect the commission to answer today. firstly, how will the commission ensure that the eu can take a leadership role in reaching sdg 2, including by making financial commitments for nutrition under the 2021—2027 budget, given the current huge global funding gap? secondly, how does the commission intend to use eu trade policy to support the global transition to a sustainable agri—food system in accordance with the farm to fork strategy? thirdly, what measures does the commission intend to propose to support partner countries, and their local farmers, fishers, foresters and food producers in moving towards more sustainable practices in key areas such as animal welfare, the use of pesticides and the fight against agricultural resistance? we know that financial programming for the new global europe instrument is under way. resources will be limited and some hard choices will have to be made. i want to be clear and also to remind you that food security, peace and stability go hand in hand. the right to food is a human right, but it is not guaranteed for all today. i welcome that the european union aims to lead by example in taking forward the transformation of the food system. we will follow the action launched at the food systems summit and would like to see strong accountability from the governments and a clear role for the un agencies. in addition to this, let me just mention that the committee on development will very soon start working on a report on food security in developing countries and the commission’s answers today will of course already feed into that. let me conclude by saying that a substantial transformation of the agri—food system is required at global level. the european union must actively promote this global transition to a sustainable food system in multilateral fora and international events such as the un food systems summit next week. i am confident that, by working together with stakeholders across all domains, we can move towards the transformation of the eu food system and be more resilient and more sustainable. i look forward to hearing from the commission now about how europe will actually deliver this transformation. on behalf of the committee on development and the committee on agriculture and rural development, i am pleased to open up this debate now and i look forward to having the input from the members and the commissioner.
mr president, i would like to thank you. ahead of the big un summit next week on global food security, a report was released that shows that as much as 90 percent - 90 percent! - of all agricultural subsidies are actually degrading our health and degrading our environment. last month another report on agricultural subsidies in the world came out showing that if it continues as it is now, in the long run it risks, and i quote: 'making vast areas of healthy land worthless'. this is precisely the kind of criticism that we greens have always had and still have against eu agricultural aid. if we change this type of investment, then instead of degrading our environment and our health, the support could actually be used to enhance ecosystem services, slow down climate change, eradicate poverty, eradicate hunger -- things that i hope we all agree we should be doing. of course, we should use the tools we have to support sustainable food systems outside europe, but we must clean up at home too. this is further proof that we need a completely new agricultural policy within the eu.
madam president, madam commissioner, colleagues, we see a worsening situation for lgbtiq+ people in many parts of the world. it is alarming. they are even being deprived of their human rights when seeking refuge. the responsibility to protect vulnerable groups is enriched in the mandate of all humanitarian interventions. in march 2021 chriton atuhwera, an activist and refugee from uganda, was killed in a homophobic attack in the unhcr kakuma camp in kenya. this is and unimaginable and unacceptable failure for the international community. this year, several lgbtiq+ refugees had to be relocated or forced to flee the kakuma camp due to threats of being attacked, injured and even killed. let me stress the absurdity of refugees having to flee a refugee camp where they are already seeking shelter, because their human rights cannot be secured there. as an ally of the lgbtiq+ community and a firm believer in the humanitarian system, i call on the unhcr and the kenyan government to act immediately to ensure sufficient protection in place for those subjected to homophobic violence. i also urge all safe countries around the world, including the eu member states, to take their share of responsibility and increase their resettlement quotas in order to ensure that international protection of the most vulnerable groups is their shared responsibility.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner dalli, this is the police. yes, all children have the right to a safe and loving childhood. no child should have to be subjected to or experience violence, abuse or degrading treatment. when we talk about men's violence against women and about parents who are violent, we must always have a child's perspective. when a parent takes the step of leaving an abusive partner, there must be a safeguard for the children. the convention on the rights of the child is clear. article 3: 'in all decisions affecting children, the best interests of the child shall be a primary consideration' and article 12: 'children have the right to express their views and to be heard in all matters affecting them'. we must ensure stronger protection for children against parents who have been violent. that is how we work in sweden and i want us to do it in the whole of the eu, because the best interests of the child should always come first.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is the matter? in sweden, one out of ten children lives in a violent family and is forced to watch a parent beaten. no child shall be forced into the company of a parent who threatens, violates, beats or kills. it's not that hard. the new child abuse that we have had to fight for in sweden makes it a crime in sweden to subject the mother of her children or her partner to violence in front of the children. it's a big step in the right direction and a protection for all children. and it should be a protection for all children, not just in sweden but in all 27 member states. putting the children's best interests first may seem like a matter of course. at the same time, there are politicians who pursue a very different policy. they're taking away children's rights. i hope that the work we've done now will lead to change.
for the renew group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? my wall calendar says 2021. yet, in some places, the union feels more like the 1950s when it comes to the rights of disabled citizens. the coronavirus pandemic has hit our communities hard. but it has struck even harder against a certain group in our union, namely people with disabilities. and now, as we move towards greater freedom of movement and the lifting of restrictions, this very group of citizens continues to be discriminated against. the problem is no longer that we have a bad situation. the problem is that in several parts of the union there are countries that are making the situation worse for people with disabilities, for example access to health care, for example preventing the spread of the coronavirus among this group of our citizens. countries such as bulgaria and romania should step up and fully comply with the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. it would give our citizens the opportunity to report any violations of their rights in their home countries. it's time to demand action for real, once and for all. to end all forms of discrimination, to guarantee the right of everyone to participate and stand as a candidate in democratic elections, to give all citizens the full opportunity to exercise freedom of movement within the union. only then will we have a union without restrictions and with free movement for all our citizens.
mr president, i would like to thank you. over 400 people lose their lives on eu roads every week. it is truck drivers, bus drivers, families with children, someone's friend, parents or children, and it is important to remember that road safety is also a work environment issue. in sweden, 66 truck drivers have died on the job in the past ten years alone, and a survey by the european transport workers' union showed that 60 percent of truck drivers regularly drive tired. the problems also risk increasing with the growing platform economy where workers are often pushed to the limit. if we are to reduce road deaths, we must focus on all the men and women who drive trucks, buses, taxis or carry out road works. finally, i would also like to stress the importance of standards for dummies that are representative of the whole population. the fact that female crash dummies are not used today is unacceptable and contributes to road safety.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the high representative! free trade based on rules is a prerequisite for growth, prosperity, development and innovation, but is also a tool for ensuring peace and security. when we look at the world trade map, it becomes clear that countries that share democratic values and the vision of freedom must work together, not against each other. it is in the common interest of the eu and the us to work together towards a functioning wto, more sustainable trade with carbon pricing integrated, and to shape standards and consensus on technology development and data transfer. we must, together, strengthen human rights in trade policy and extend a hand to other democracies, such as taiwan. 'trade needs democracy', said the us secretary of commerce when she visited us this summer. true, but i would also like to say that democracy needs trade. now we expect the united states to live up to our high expectations and those of the world. europe, the eu, is ready.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. once again, i stand here to give my support to the struggle for freedom in belarus. once again we must show our disgust at the human rights violations that lukashenka commits on a daily basis, which are now also a cynical and inhumane way of exploiting migrants in his desperate power game. since i was last here, the list of persons deprived of their liberty has become even longer and the deprived of their liberty even younger. since we last debated the situation in belarus, 17-year-old artiom has had his home searched just for following a regime-critical news channel on social media. he is then forced to record a new video posted by the regime, under threat, in which he explains that he is now a law-abiding citizen. he's not the only one facing the same fate. the eu must impose tougher sanctions on those who feed lukashenko's reign of terror. the eu must increase its support for the opposition and we must raise the red and white flag in solidarity with all freedom fighters. as long as it takes, i'll say it again. the eu can and must do more. mr borell, today i would like to ask you what is your message to artyom, to victoria, to marca, to tatjana and to all the other young belarusians who are being deprived of their youth? how will they get their freedom and their future back?
mr president, we have witnessed a historic, brave democratic movement in belarus. even if we are not there yet, the efforts from the opposition hopefully mark the beginning of the end for lukashenko’s regime, and the european union must continue to stand up for the belarusian people. but also, as we have seen, lukashenko is now also using migrants as human tiles in a game with one clear purpose: to destabilise the european union. this must stop! we must show full support for our baltic states. we have to control and protect our own borders. there is no room for uncertainties. we must be crystal clear in acting against lukashenko, and i urge and trust that the commission will hold that line with no flexibility. the european union has an obligation to support the belarusian people.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. pandemics and health threats will continue to be part of our future. covid-19 is not over, and there are new crises coming. we cannot prevent future health crises from occurring, but we can coordinate our efforts to prevent and manage these threats. we can learn from this. we can support the research, development and production of critical products. we can mobilize tools and resources. to achieve this, coordination is required, coordination where all the parties concerned are involved in the coordination. there must be a basis for cooperation between the eu bodies and their national and international counterparts. it is therefore regrettable that the european parliament is not fully involved in the coordination of hera. the s&d group supports the strengthening of the mandate of the european parliament, but we call for higher and greater ambitions and for the european parliament to play a role. this is necessary to ensure appropriate tools to identify, develop and procure measures to respond to future crises. hera is an important part of the european health union. it will be a central authority in the prevention, detection and rapid response to health risks. this work must be well coordinated, with all parties able to contribute fully to strengthening the resilience and the eu's preparedness. because this is the time when we have to take responsibility, when we learn from a pandemic. we must do it for the sake of the citizens and we must do it within the eu.
madam president, i would like to thank you. friends, i'm proud that we are the world's largest donor to a better world, but in an increasingly turbulent world, we need to increase and improve the toolbox for us to become proactive and for people to be able to live a good life where they are. humanitarian development aid is an important tool. unfortunately, in recent years we have gone from improvements globally to a decline and more crises in many places. the world's crises are sometimes sudden, and our ability to react quickly must be improved. the funds for administration in different countries and the facilities for refugees in turkey are important, but they are far from working well to ensure that human rights are actually respected. the recently adopted instrument for neighbourhood policy, development cooperation and international cooperation, europe in the world, is a good instrument and offers more flexibility than was previously lacking in responding to sudden crises in the world. however, we must at the same time ensure transparency and openness in the use of the funds for the administration and the facility for refugees in turkey, to ensure that the purpose is fulfilled and people get the support they need.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? what we see happening in tigray is an unimaginable tragedy, an unimaginable evil and an unimaginable inaction from the outside world. many times we have said: never again, never forget. but equally, for almost a year, we have seen the civilian population of tigray being attacked in cold blood, rape being used as a weapon, child soldiers being sent to certain death, starving people having to sell their bodies for a little food and water. human rights watch has called these acts war crimes. those responsible must be held to account by an independent international inquiry. it is absolutely inconceivable that the un has not used its responsibility to protect mechanism to protect the civilian population. the eu is ethiopia's largest donor, and that is binding. we must use all our collective weight to immediately force ethiopia to open tigray to humanitarian aid before it is too late.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the arctic and the people who live there are literally on the front lines of the climate crisis. i am thinking not only of the melting of snow and ice, but also of the rapid loss of biodiversity and what this means for the reindeer industry in sweden, for example. when you understand this larger picture, it actually becomes completely disrespectful to describe the arctic as some kind of treasure chest that we could open up to extract even more natural resources in the future, as unfortunately many of my colleagues on the right are doing. this is on a full collision course with the climate and sustainability goals that we all agree on. and no, it's not enough to throw in words like sustainable over mining to solve these problems. the arctic is one of the few places on this planet that has not yet been ravaged by the oil industry, mining companies, and other environmental destruction. let us work together to make sure that it remains so.
madam president, i would like to thank you. members of the house! i'm going home on thursday. 2,000 kilometers, then i'm in the arctic. some people look at the arctic as a museum. it's gonna be the way it's always been, and nothing's gonna change. others view it as a storehouse where raw materials, battery metals, and other items can be freely taken. for me, it's home, and for millions of others, it's home. we live our lives. we're trying to raise our kids. we want to evolve, and we also care about the climate. what we're seeing now is that climate change is coming to us first. we also note that it is in the arctic that the great powers meet and that the security situation changes. it's getting more worrying. we see that the northeast passage will change, and also contribute to increased interest in, the area. it is good that the eu has started to work on arctic issues, but what is important now is to recognise that everything is happening locally. we need to intensify the dialogue with the people who actually live in the arctic, otherwise we will not succeed as well as we could. thursday i'm going home and i don't want to end up in a museum or a grocery store.
madam president, i would like to thank you. friends, knowledge is power and the power of knowledge must belong to everyone in full-fledged democracies. the new digital tools and social media platforms have enabled access to knowledge in a way that was never possible before. it's not just the few, but the many who have access to information today. but with new opportunities, we also see new challenges. we must therefore step up our efforts to ensure that democracy is respected in our society and that our individual integrity is respected, and to combat lies, hatred, threats and violence. we are witnessing a decline in democracy in some eu countries, and we are also witnessing an increase in attempts to interfere in the eu by foreign powers, by manipulating information and, in many cases, by spreading lies and fabrications on social media. we're seeing parallels with how hate and threats and violence are being spread online without the social media platforms taking responsibility. this is happening while women's and girls' bodies are being censored. we also see how our privacy is violated when information is sold to third parties. it all comes down to the financial interests of the owners of the social media platforms. but it is the people who suffer the consequences. it is time for the eu to stand with ordinary people and not let the platforms play the wild west. yesterday when facebook, instagram and whatsapp were down, it was an indication of how these platforms are in the hands of a few actors. so that means that a few players right now are playing wild west with our democracy and our lives.
madam president, i would like to thank you. you wanted to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and avoid a dependence on russia. so what were you thinking when you decided to shut down a working nuclear power plant? now, the need for both fossil fuels and russia has increased. you also want to build wind and solar power at any cost, a cost that has now fallen on the citizens. energy poverty is rampant. i know that many here want to do more of what has not worked, that is to say, invest even more in weather-dependent electricity generation before the problems of power transmission, storage, raw materials supply and waste are solved. it's too late to do everything right, but it's not too late to do the rest right. repeal the requirement to build weather-dependent power generation regardless of the consequences. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear industry is not left behind. never let a good crisis go to waste. learn from this crisis before it's too late.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the current crisis of skyrocketing electricity prices will not be the last. many similar ones will follow with the policies now being pushed by green parties around europe and which unfortunately are in great danger of being adopted by us here in the house. our climate policy is guided by a quasi-religious movement that is becoming more and more purist, where everything except the most sacred and pure is to be phased out, banned or punished. when nuclear power, forest biofuels and hydropower are not considered to be good enough alternatives to coal and fossil fuels, it is no wonder that we have reached the point where we are, with insufficient resources. even under the most favorable weather conditions, solar and wind power today cannot generate enough energy to meet 100 percent of demand year round. anyone who knows the most basic economic rules knows that when supply is less than demand, prices rise. businesses and households will continue to face skyrocketing prices if nuclear power plants continue to be shut down, and that's just based on our current energy consumption. everyone knows that the real transition will require a massive electrification and increase our electricity demand, in sweden by at least 60 percent. the green party's policies are harmful to the climate, because the lack of realism in the nuclear issue has forced us to use fossil fuels, and it is now also punishing families and businesses all over europe.
madam president, i would like to thank you. members of the house! i've lived in the arctic all my life and i've hardly ever had a cold. the times i've been cold have often been when i've traveled south. cold house. high energy prices. bad heating. no one in europe should have to freeze to death today. but it is a complex problem, and therefore there is no single solution. there are a number of things we must do to avoid what is happening now. first of all, we must become better at conserving energy. a kilowatt saved is worth a lot more than a newly produced one. we need to get more energy efficient houses and buildings, among other things. we need to be better at storing energy. the energy we now over-produce when it blows, to no avail, must be stored and used when we need it most. we need to get better at transferring energy. energy must be able to flow freely from where there is a surplus to where there is a deficit, which will vary over time. we also need to speed up the processes, faster investments in a green transition and faster innovations, more resources there. no one in europe should have to freeze.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the conditions for the application of this regulation. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the conditions for the application of this regulation. this is the system price for electricity in northern europe from last weekend. why would you do that? because wind power is driving down the price of electricity. and if we are serious about worrying about high energy prices in europe, it is dishonest to lock households into fossil fuels and stop the transition. renewable energy has the lowest prices, and that is why we must phase out fossil fuels. it's expensive, it's dirty, and it's bad for our planet. the recent discussion that the transition is due to climate change is fake news. it's russian gas and it's putin who's keeping energy prices high in europe. this shows us that we have to stop subsidizing fossil fuels. we must strengthen emissions trading and we must speed up the transition, because we need new energy in europe.
i have to say, madam president, that russia is not happy with europe switching to renewable energy, that russia is not happy with our green deal, may come as less of a surprise here. the fact that supply shortages are driving up gas prices and thus energy prices is a direct attack on the green deal of the european commission and the european parliament. i'm not surprised that our colleagues on the right are taking over russia's propaganda. i am surprised that some of my colleagues in the conservative party are doing this. if you haven't understood by now that we need to reduce our energy dependence, you haven't learned your lesson. we need a rapid switch to renewable energy, we need a rapid start on the isolation and renewal offensive in europe. the citizens can be supported by the additional tax revenue our countries have from the increased energy prices. this increased tax revenue is intended to be used for those people who actually have a problem with these geopolitical conflicts. and we can cushion that.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the sharp increase in energy prices observed in recent months is due to several reasons. first, the disruption of supply chains, the accelerated growth of economies that are making up for the downtime caused by the pandemic, the announcement of a drastic tightening of the european union's climate policy, and finally, what to hide here, vladimir putin's gas blackmail, carried out primarily in western european countries. germany pushed for nord stream 2, wanting to become a gas hub for western europe at all costs, but now, in order to put it into operation bypassing the provisions of the third energy package, putin is using gas blackmail, which is inflating the gas prices in europe. my country has experienced this kind of blackmail from russia many times. we have warned the western european countries and the eu institutions. they didn't listen to us, they listened to the germans. now we're dealing with the consequences, but there are still some things we can control. and let's take the right lessons from that, but not the ones that were being taught in this room. it's true that renewable energy is relatively cheap, but if you add to that the need to build up reserves, which we have to have because the sun doesn't always shine and the wind doesn't always blow, then it's the most expensive.
madam president, i would like to thank you. colleagues, it is time to start talking clearly with each other. it's clear that we need to lead the climate change. it is clear that we need to take steps to make ourselves more competitive. this is so obvious that we must become less dependent on coal in energy policy. we must make sure we become less dependent on russian gas. and yes, we need to invest heavily in renewables, make sure to reset much of europe's economies. but can we ensure that we have reasonable costs, that we maintain europe's competitiveness? then this house must drop its ideological opposition to nuclear power. because nuclear power will be absolutely crucial to our ability to both reduce our emissions and keep europe competitive. we cannot afford to have our own ideas about which energy type we like best. that time is past. we need to ensure that we have both renewable and nuclear power to reduce our emissions, to keep jobs in europe and to meet the common challenge. nuclear power is climate-smart.
madam president, i would like to thank you. electricity prices in europe have reached levels we have never seen before. shocked electricity customers have received bills more than doubled from normal. but this is no coincidence. under the red-green government in sweden, six out of ten nuclear power reactors have been closed. other countries are also in the midst of early retirement from nuclear power, despite the fact that it is stable, safe, cheap and emission-free. it is incomprehensible that such a thing can be done at a time when electricity shortages are becoming more and more obvious and prices are skyrocketing. the only short-term options are to mine dirty coal and restart oil-fired power plants. good luck with the air conditioning. this energy policy is downright harmful, and it is characterized by shadow politics and the opposition to nuclear power in the 1980s rather than genuine concern for the climate. anyone who really cares about the climate would never close zero-emission nuclear power plants before coal-fired power plants, and it is the electricity customers and the manufacturing industry who should take note. the solution to this is not new equity funds or grant carousels. such people have never built genuine prosperity. eu countries must now come up with a plan to avert the electricity crisis. otherwise, we're headed for a dark, cold, and very expensive future. the situation only makes me more certain of what i already knew: we need more nuclear power in europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. members of the house. i come from a border region. it shares borders with both norway, which is not in the eu, and finland, which has been in the eu for as long as sweden. it has always been natural for us to interact across regional and national boundaries. i remember my first trip abroad, which we didn't really think of as abroad, but it was to finland. we took the ferry from skellefteå to jakobstad. when i was a kid, it was amazing to get on a boat that big. it was hassle-free, we didn't need passports, even then, long before we joined the eu. since then, we have developed cooperation in the north. the swedish city of haparanda and the finnish city of torneå, which lie on opposite sides of the border river torne, see themselves as one city and cooperate in everything they can. umeå in sweden and vasa across the water in finland felt the need for a new ferry, so they formed a joint ferry company and in august launched the world's most environmentally friendly passenger and freight ferry, financed by the cities, because cooperation is so important. we have set up an egtc up there, the quarken council, to eliminate all the hassle that can be eliminated. because we want to hang out. we want to make connections. we want to exchange both human contacts and goods and services, and we take that as far as possible. i would like to say that we have come a very, very long way. but we still see that borders are a barrier. they're messing with it. they don't make it easy. they are hindering the development of our region and, therefore, the development of europe. i appeal to the council of ministers: come to dialogue! let's get this over with. let's find a framework where we could try to take the next step on a voluntary basis, and then we'll develop that framework. the european project, somewhere, is ultimately about bringing people closer together. when i get home, i can't wait to get on that new ferry.
author. – mr president, a country that in previous years had taken important steps towards democracy is once again in the hands of the military junta and facing violence and constant oppression every day. that is what the people of myanmar are living under. the illegitimate regime of the military junta is committing horrendous crimes against its own population. continuous violent attacks are being reported against dissidents, civilians, labour unions, journalists, religious representatives, and peaceful democratic protesters. additionally, the humanitarian crisis is worsening every day. more than 210 000 people have been internally displaced only this year; 3 000 000 people are in need of urgent humanitarian aid, and approximately 20 000 000 people risk living below the poverty line. with these deteriorating circumstances, the united nations high commissioner for human rights now warns the situation in the country is at serious risk of escalating into a widespread civil war. the international community has to step up its demand for an immediate end to the military junta and its violence towards the civilian population, including all ethnic and religious minorities, such as the rohingya. colleagues, let us ensure that silence is not an option and action becomes a reality. we must continue to implement targeted sanctions against those who are behind the coup earlier this year, those people, entities and companies behind human rights violations and those responsible for crimes against the rohingya. eu companies must ensure that they by no means support the military junta to conduct their human rights violations, directly or indirectly. in line with the wishes of the people of myanmar, we must also support the national unity government as the only legitimate representative.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. imagine that you are the parent of a 14-year-old daughter. she's been raped and it turns out she's pregnant. she doesn't want to continue the pregnancy, but because of the law where you live, your daughter can't make her own decisions. imagine you are 30 years old. you're married, you have a kid, you get pregnant. you don't want to continue this pregnancy, but because of the law where you live, you can't make that decision for yourself. abortion being illegal means you have no opportunity to make your own decision. whether you're 14 or 30 years old, whatever your life situation or reason, it must be the right of every individual to control their own body. today we are voting on a resolution condemning the abortion law in the state of texas in the united states. they have a law that prohibits abortion from the sixth week of pregnancy, a ban that also applies to those who have become pregnant through rape or incest. let me be clear. the abortion ban doesn't stop abortions. instead, it results in more unsafe and often fatal abortions. abortion is best prevented by full access to sex and relationship education and modern contraceptives, because it is about knowledge and information and access to sexual and reproductive rights. today we received news that a federal judge has temporarily halted the law. that's fine, but it's going to be appealed, so our resolution is very important. i would like to thank all of you who have contributed in the negotiations and in various ways to this important resolution. now we in the eu can decide that every person has the right to decide about his own body.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. last year we condemned the polish government's attack on abortion rights and we showed solidarity with the tens of thousands of brave poles who took to the streets and squares to protest the policies of the right-wing conservative government. today, one year later, it's time again. in texas, the same forces that have gained ground in poland have gained ground. the new abortion law passed today bans all abortions after six weeks, and it makes no exceptions. it doesn't matter if you've been raped or incested. the law even calls for a tip-off. anyone who can identify a person who has performed an abortion or someone who has helped to make an abortion possible, that person, the person who did the identification, can be rewarded with thousands of dollars. we know that this bill will have devastating and life-threatening consequences. we know that banning abortion does not lead to fewer abortions. it leads to life-threatening abortions. what happens in poland and texas doesn't happen in a vacuum. the same values-conservative forces that are restricting the rights of women and lgbtq people and minorities in texas and in poland are also trying to gain ground in other states and in other countries, including in your country. in our country. these are movements that span national boundaries and step by step challenge the advances that women have fought for for generations. equality, gender equality, the right to make decisions about their own bodies. it's exhausting, and it's too fucking hard. but we must continue to protest. to sound the alarm. to condemn every step in the wrong direction. we owe it to all those who have gone before us, and it is our responsibility to those who come after us.
madam president, i would like to thank you. my colleagues! my body, my choice. how hard can it be to understand? men's violence against women and girls seems to know no bounds. the fact that we are not even allowed to have our wombs and ovaries in peace is a clear example of the extent of violence in some countries and what conservative forces want to throw us back to when they come to power. texas lawmakers are sparing no effort in their quest for total control over the lives and bodies of women and girls. and now they want to use the civil guard in a system of indication. the aim is to reward those who are prepared to violate the right to health of women and girls and to punish doctors, taxi drivers and nurses who do their job. i'm going to be pissed. it's also a class issue. those with big enough pockets can go out of state to get abortion services, but working women and everyone else suffers in conservative texas. but what happens in the united states happens in our union too. the last example is spelled poland. colleagues, what we don't need right now is more old men and men to dictate to us women and girls.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. why are we discussing what is happening in texas in the european parliament? you ask. well, because the right to control one's body should be self-evident here in the united states, in the world. but it's not like that for women. the right to abortion and access to it is threatened, questioned, restricted both in the eu and in the world, most recently in texas. having a womb never seems to stop being political. i would like to ask those of you who think that the eu is going too far if we have views on the oppression of women in other parts of the world: what is that, compared with taking the liberty of deciding over another man's life and body? the right to abortion must be won, protected and defended. small constraints quickly become a sloping plan. decisions in one country affect another. that's why we're debating this today. this morning, we woke up to the news that the texas law was temporarily suspended. let it go on like this, forever.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. now the constitutional judiciary of the united states has come to life and announced that this terrible abortion law is being temporarily halted. now let us hope that the supreme court will also wake up from its conservative slumber and realize that banning abortion is not only a violation of women's human rights, but also quite stupid to be honest. women of all ages have found ways to get rid of an unwanted pregnancy in various ways. banning abortion is really banning safe abortion for women's health, nothing more. let me say this one more time. a woman's right to control her own body is a human right. it's not a matter of opinion, it's not a matter of negotiation. but let us not for a second think that this is just happening somewhere else. it's happening here in our union and in this house. a few weeks ago, the visegrad countries met for a summit where it was free to put the responsibility for the survival of the continent on us wombbearers. i'm gonna pay for it and say, keep your paws off our right to control our own bodies. my womb doesn't owe you, or you, or anyone, anything.
madam president! the authors of the analysis mentioned today of the impact of the strategy on the union's agriculture say that agricultural production could be reduced by 20% or even 30%. if that were to happen, it would be a real disaster for the food security of the european union. that would be a real disaster for farm incomes and a serious problem for consumers. how does the european commission intend to check and guarantee that imported agricultural products will meet the very strict health and environmental requirements imposed on european farmers? there is no commissioner wojciechowski, but i must say at this point that the symbol of commissioner wojciechowski's activities is the priority support for small farms with extensive production. that is good, but medium and large family farms are the foundation of food security in the union. these farms will bear the brunt of the ambitious objectives of the strategy. unfortunately, these farms are treated by the commissioner - to put it mildly - in a macho way. what's the proof? the commissioner very often refers to statistics from poland: 1 300 000 farms, an average of 11 hectares. the problem is that these data are completely disconnected from the realities of polish agriculture. experts i emphasise experts in poland say that 80% of those receiving direct payments are not engaged in agricultural activity, and active farmers cannot even benefit from direct payments from agri-environmental programmes, and in the future from eco-schemes. if this problem is not solved, how can we achieve these goals? the commissioner is not helping, he's hurting. it's worse than not having the means.
mr president, the main advantage of the 'call to action' strategy is that the whole food chain is finally considered as a whole. it is clear that security of supply, food security or strict climate and environmental requirements for agriculture are not achieved if farmers' incomes are at a disadvantage. that is why farmers must be paid a fairer price for their products. environmental measures must also be reflected in market prices. ensure that the entire food chain - transport, processing, trade, consumers - takes responsibility for reducing emissions. it is not possible to blame the farmer and agriculture alone, because the farmer is one of the few who captures carbon and there must be more incentives for that. the food industry is rightly concerned about the impact of the commission's targets on food production. we therefore demand that any future legislative initiative be based on a comprehensive impact assessment. it is the commission's responsibility to ensure that profitable food production is possible throughout europe in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. without a different agricultural policy, there will be no green deal, and that is why the 'from the farm to the table' strategy is the right answer for the future. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. but also: 25% organic farming as a new agricultural model. but what we also need is a different trade policy - to put it bluntly. we must move away from the export orientation of european agriculture. we also do not need a mercosur agreement, and that too must be clear. but we need a qualified outside protection for our farmers. another thing we have to deal with is that we waste 30 percent of our food. we cannot accept that in the future either. the new cap will be essentially a continuation of the old cap. so let us quickly incorporate the 'from the farm to the table' strategy into a new agricultural policy. it's no wonder to me that the food industry is resisting. if the pesticide industry, the chemical industry, makes less money from agriculture, that's a good sign for me. what we do not need - and i and all those who have said it here say it very clearly - is new gmos. there is no place for that in europe.
madam president! first, a point that has been made here many times before. in particular, if the european commission presents a strategy without assessing the impact on the sectors concerned by the strategy, and above all on farmers' incomes, this is unprofessional and does not create the conditions for the creation of good law. it's been a couple of months, and there's still no impact assessment. and then there's this incident involving the withholding of data. this is a situation that does not inspire trust. but of course there are good solutions to this strategy, including reducing the use of plant protection products, but this must be done in consultation with the member states and with farmers when examining the impact on their incomes. it can't be a reduction for the sake of reduction. and finally, the last point about our relations with third countries: if we tighten up the operating conditions for european farmers, this must be reflected in the trade agreements. we talk about it all the time, we remind the committee on agriculture. unfortunately, the european commission does not monitor this. the subsequent agreements we sign do not include this element of protecting european farmers.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it's a very large document. many proposals to be taken on, but i would like to highlight two points in this report. it is about how to create a sustainable future of work and about reshaping europe's food production. firstly, europe must open up to innovation in general, but also simplify plant breeding in particular. it is clear that the regulatory framework for gmos needs to be updated and modernised. if europe is not to lose research and development to other parts of the world, we must change our rules to fit the future. it will be crucial to how we meet challenges such as climate change and pests. secondly, it is about antibiotic resistance. that is a crucial question. we've seen what pandemics can do. we've seen how this can affect our communities. we have a good regulatory framework in place, but we need to work together to continue to reduce use in a sustainable way. i am absolutely convinced that we can do this, that we are on a path to success, but we must do it together.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we are in three different crises right now: climate, environment and health. i think we all understand that these are interrelated, that they are affected by our food production system and that they also affect the same. the brutal attacks, which i have heard from some on the right, but especially from the lobbyist organizations of industrialized agriculture, are therefore completely incomprehensible. are we going to argue about goals that ultimately are about having enough food for everyone in the future? those who still try to describe the sustainability goals and the goals of having food to eat in the future as something opposite to each other have not been at all involved in education and research. so i really hope that all the attempts that will be made now to weaken the text which has after all been negotiated in committee will be voted down tomorrow. the strategy is not perfect, but we certainly don't want to weaken it. and the next step is not just going from soil to table. we're also going to go from words to action.
madam president, this report in connection to the european semester is a yearly exercise for parliament. i am sorry to say that it gets worse with every year that passes, and more dominated by leftist ideas on economics and how we create the basis for social progress. while i too, of course, support many of the goals in this report, i have to say that the leftist writings in it do not make it easier for us to achieve those goals – the opposite. this report is highly unbalanced and amounts to an attack on fiscal responsibility, european competitiveness and the principle of subsidiarity. in the extraordinary circumstances following the covid-19 pandemic and the adoption of the nextgenerationeu package, we need sound and responsible fiscal policies more than ever before. those policies are necessary for european competitiveness and european jobs, and they are necessary to make sure that the next generation of europeans are not born into inheriting overwhelming levels of debt. in this context, it is far from responsible that the report calls for a total remake of the european semester as well as the stability and growth pact. the challenging situation that we are in deserves much better and, first and foremost, an insight on how poverty is defeated, how jobs are created, and how we will be able to fund our welfare systems in the future. sound economic principles will not hold back social progress. economic growth and responsible fiscal policies is the foundation for social progress.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. commissioner schmit, i have to ask you. i was born the same year asbestos was banned in sweden. next year it will be 40 years ago and yet asbestos is still the single biggest cause of work-related death in sweden and the rest of europe. how we act now will determine whether that is still the case when my own children reach my present age. this is a responsibility that we legislators bear very heavily. it is our responsibility to ensure a world with both less asbestos in our buildings and fewer people getting sick from exposure to asbestos. the report now before parliament is an ambitious step in the right direction. firstly, we are calling for the limit values for exposure to asbestos to be lowered. the basic rule in the eu must be that asbestos should never be handled without adequate permits, knowledge and protective measures. we also want public asbestos records. the safety representative, workers and employers must be able to inspect the buildings where work is to be carried out and take the necessary measures. thirdly, as many have already mentioned, the energy prices of the autumn and the crisis we are seeing there have shown the need to make the housing stock more energy efficient. if we're going to do this safely, we have to handle asbestos safely, too. large support programmes are now being launched at eu level and in the member states to support this renovation. but with generous support, it must also meet tough standards. if you violate any of the laws and regulations we have in place regarding asbestos, you will be liable for a refund. public funds should not go to companies that put workers' lives at risk. no one should have to die for their work. finally, to commissioner schmit, a big thank you for the ambitious answers and far-reaching commitments you have made today. i hope that what you said, what we are setting out in parliament in our report today, will lead to concrete measures to protect the lives of workers.
mr president, yes, europe is united in diversity, and yes, sometimes we have different views, but we have common ground rules, and not least we have the rule of law. the verdict of poland’s constitutional tribunal, but also, i must say, prime minister, of your speech today, is not only worrying, it is, frankly speaking, unacceptable, and it is traumatic for poland and for europe. i must sincerely ask you, prime minister: why are you pushing for this short—term adverse political strategy of the pis party? why is the small majority that your current government has more important than the polish people? don’t you take any responsibility for opening the door to take your country out of the european union? be honest with what you are doing. this is a political strategy, and you need to take some responsibility for what we are seeing right now. we need to keep europe together, and we need to keep a strong poland in the european union. please respect the rule of law and come back to europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. madam president, i have to say something. prime minister! your speech today frightens me. because we have our fundamental values in the eu of freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights. everyone should have control over their own body. i think everyone should be allowed to be themselves and love whoever they want. this should be self-evident throughout our union, because our union is based on the rule of law. poland has joined the eu and ratified the treaty. poland has therefore also agreed to play by the common rules. it is your job as prime minister to make sure that it is done. this means that poland, like everyone else, must respect the human rights of women and lgbtq people. it is time for the commission to act and for poland to follow our common rules, for the sake of the polish people.
mr president, i would like to thank you. madam president, i have to say something. prime minister! every day that passes without the eu acting, we allow the polish government to return polish democracy. it is unacceptable that the european commission does not use all the means at its disposal to do its job, to safeguard and defend the eu treaties. we may be frustrated that the polish government is shamelessly lying and betraying its own people, but we cannot accept that the european commission is not doing what it is supposed to do. we can't just sit back and watch. the eu must ensure that the polish people have the same rights as all other eu citizens.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? the prime minister! what we're talking about today is your people. what we're talking about today is how your government is consistently dismantling the rule of law and turning courts into political megaphones. how you and your party are cutting down on the media. it is you and your government who say that polish women do not have the right to control their own bodies. it's you and your government who say that rainbow families aren't worth as much as your own family. it is you and your party who say that lgbtq people should be banned from certain places in poland. prime minister, in this house, it is the interests of the polish people that we have in mind. in this house, it is their human rights, the human rights of the polish people, that we are fighting for. the polish people belong in the eu. the question is whether you and your party will. commissioner, what is it? you have the tools. you have the support of this house. use them. it's time to turn words into action, and now.
madam president, colleagues, i’m going to focus on one thing today, peace between israel and palestine. in the heart of peace lays the well-being of the people directly affected. unrwa is a un agency that i hope we will not need in the future, since i hope we will be able to provide also the palestinian people with statehood through a two state solution with two democratic states, israel and palestine, side by side in peace and security. but today, millions of palestinians are living under catastrophic conditions, and many are refugees, internally displaced in palestine, in syria, in lebanon and jordan. unrwa has been lifesaving for many of them. every person in this parliament should want to support unrwa, but instead i’m shocked to hear that so many, especially from the right wing groups here, believe in lies spread about the palestinian textbooks and the work of unrwa. at least trust in the eu funded report by the georg eckert institute, which clearly states that the palestinian textbooks adhere to unesco standards. i hope that all of us contribute to stability, solidarity and peace. i hope you all vote for the amendment tabled by the s&d group that ensures continued support for unwra.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank all shadow rapporteurs for their excellent and positive cooperation. i believe that through our very constructive work we were able to present a report that will be supported by a large majority. colleagues, this report is historic. it is the first time that the european parliament discusses and votes on a comprehensive report that focuses solely on eu—taiwan relations. the parliament truly paved the way with this recommendation. while the commission was formulating its indo—pacific strategy, the ep made its voice heard about the great importance it attaches to taiwan’s inclusion in the eu’s policy towards the region. dear high representative, i would like to stress several points from the report that calls on you, on behalf of the eu, to put into action. taiwan is a like—minded partner with whom europe shares many common values. in a region where this is not always a given, in light of taiwan’s robust democracy and technologically advanced economy, it is crucial that the eu and taiwan pursue a comprehensive and enhanced partnership that underpins the rules—based order. therefore, in order to prepare for negotiations to deepen our economic relations, the eu needs urgently to begin an impact assessment, public consultation and scoping exercise on a bilateral investment agreement with the taiwanese authorities. the eu must also more strongly condemn china’s continued military belligerence against taiwan. we must stress the need for freedom of navigation and overflight in the east and south china sea, as well as the importance of pursuing peace and stability across the taiwan strait. just a few weeks ago, china sent over 150 warplanes, including fighter jets and nuclear—capable bombers, into taiwan’s air defence identification zone. despite china’s empty words seeking a peaceful reunification with taiwan, such actions signal the contrary. taiwan’s defence minister, chiu kuo-cheng, has stated that given the continuous and significant military build—up, china could be capable of mounting a full—scale invasion of taiwan by 2025. dear high representative, the eu must condemn china’s action in the strongest possible terms and stress that china’s actions against taiwan will have consequences for eu—china relations. the eu must, despite chinese pressure, strongly advocate for taiwan’s meaningful participation as an observer in meetings, mechanisms and activities of international bodies, including the world health organization. let us not forget that while the chinese communist party tried to deceive everyone, it was taiwan that brought the covid—19 outbreak in wuhan, china, to the world’s attention. dear high representative, in order to better reflect the broadened scope of our ties with taiwan we call on you to change the name of the european economic and trade office in taiwan to the european union office in taiwan. dear colleagues, on behalf of the ecr, i would like to thank you once again for the excellent cooperation, and i look forward to today’s debate, a debate that will be conducted in the democratic tradition of europe, despite the chinese communist party’s attempts to stop us from doing so.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the overarching goals of the eu’s taiwan policy have always been stability, peace and respect for the will of the people, and therefore we have consistently opposed unilateral changes of the status quo in the taiwan strait. but these worthy goals are under assault from the people’s republic of china. beijing is undermining peace and stability through aggressive actions in many different dimensions. the threat of a military attack against taiwan is openly being peddled by chinese ultranationalists. the chinese dictator xi jinping has promised to conquer the island during his lifetime. taiwan, a vibrant democracy and a society with many progressive achievements, needs and merits our strategic solidarity. the weimers report which we’re discussing here spells that out. it also formulates perspectives for wide—ranging cooperation as partners which is very much in our own interest. our message to the people of taiwan is clear: we will stand with you. our message to beijing is: reconsider your policy. historical patience will be better for china than any other hypothetical alternative. our message to our european citizens, not only in lithuania, is let’s stay united on china policy. i thank charlie weimers for his report and all the colleagues for their good cooperation, and i thank vice—president vestager for her remarks too.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this afternoon we are certainly discussing a european parliament report of historic significance. i would like to commend charlie weimers, the rapporteur, and all the shadow rapporteurs, for a very comprehensive, good and, at the same time, balanced document. i would like to express the hope that the commission is going to take on board the important recommendations the rapporteur was able to prepare. i also hope that, despite mounting pressure, so well described during this debate, from the side of the people’s republic of china (prc) in the air and in the waters of the taiwan strait, the community of taiwan, the people of taiwan, are able to develop a vibrant democracy and a very innovative economy. this enhanced relationship is going to benefit all of us.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, in this context of great tension, of rising tensions, europe must stand its ground. and in the face of chinese provocations in the taiwan strait, to which the united states has responded by strengthening its own military capabilities, europe cannot remain indifferent. it must not only promote all the steps that can be taken to ensure peace and stability in the region, but also defend its interests in that region. because yes, we have interests in the indo-pacific region and europe must invest more autonomously, that is, without subordination to the united states and without naivety, of course, vis-à-vis china. i agree with the main points of the report, including the democratic, institutional and cultural links and the deepening of our ties with taiwan. i think it is good that the island is participating in international organisations as an observer, but on the other hand, in economic and trade matters, i have doubts, especially about a hypothetical investment agreement. i don't think the situation allows it. and then, above all, the real challenge is the restoration of industrial sovereignty. and that's what we're going to talk about today, particularly the history of microprocessors. it is by developing its own path that the european union will succeed in building lasting strategic partnerships with taiwan and other regional actors.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, increasing political, economic and trade relations with taiwan is a strategic priority for our union today and a key step towards becoming a major player on the global stage, through solid agreements and links with partners who share our principles and values. i would like to stress this point. taiwan is a bastion of democracy and freedom in the indo-pacific region, a region where authoritarianism and aggression are becoming increasingly strong and evident, not only at the dialectical level but also through the use of increasing military exercises and direct interference in the political life of individual countries. i therefore believe it is essential that our parliament and the whole union activate all the political and diplomatic channels at their disposal now so that any negotiations between taiwan and the other regional actors can be conducted in a peaceful manner, avoiding the bullying of the threat of the use of arms. similarly, the eu must work to ensure that taipei can finally be admitted to all multilateral fora, in particular the who, by pushing for the anachronistic and unjustifiable political vectors that stand in the way of inclusion to be overcome. confucius reminds us that the wise man prefers to be slow to speak but ready to act; a piece of advice that we should definitely take to heart and value very highly.
the commission has already done so. these are the things that happen when you don't understand the language of the chairman. but i think it's not that bad. human rights, civil rights, democracy, these are the values that define us, which are actually the basis for our coexistence in our society, in the european union. yes, these are the values with which we can form a common partnership in taiwan. these are the values that we can use to ensure that freedom is also a possibility for the future in this region, even in a region where this is not a familiar story. yes, we have to be concerned - very, very concerned - about the aggressive way the chinese government has been acting in this region lately. we must use all the means at our disposal, madam commissioner, to ensure through diplomatic channels that there is peace, freedom and democracy in this region and that we can help ensure that the citizens of taiwan can continue to live in freedom.
mr president, the political ambitions and growing global assertiveness of communist china pose an increasing challenge and strategic threat to taiwan’s democratic future and wellbeing of taiwanese. a notion of peaceful coexistence has been replaced by political intimidation, military pressure and hybrid provocations. we rightly commend taiwan as a trusted partner in promoting human rights and freedoms, as a shining regional example and appreciate its cooperation in tackling global challenges such as the covid-19 pandemic. our mutual membership in the world community of democracies requires further common actions in extending eu and taiwan relations in various fields. i call on and encourage the eu institutions to make a timely decision to rename the eu representation in taiwan as the european union office in taiwan. let us use this chance and expand our support to the island of democracy.
mr president, commissioner, the authoritarianism of the beijing regime challenges our concept of democracy. we're all saying it. the minorities (uighurs, tibetans, hong kong citizens and also the democrats who have been fighting for a better country under the chinese regime) suffer a systematic violation of their fundamental rights. europe must abandon the 'one china' policy or rather, it must recognise that china and taiwan are, for all intents and purposes, two different countries, and treat them as such. this is what the taiwanese people have said repeatedly at the ballot box, and we must therefore respect this from the european institutions. from catalonia, taiwan has our full support and hopefully in the coming months we will vote again in this house on taiwan, but this time on an investment treaty that will strengthen relations between europe and taiwan. europe must give priority to alliances with other democracies. if europe wants to be a global power, it must make geopolitical bets that reinforce democratic systems with civil, political, labour, environmental and so on rights. i hope that this resolution will be a milestone towards much closer relations between taiwan and the european union.
mr president, as the commissioner knows very well, this house has many times requested that we should start with the preparation of the eu—taiwan bilateral investment agreement. we want to see concrete steps from the commission, but also from the council, especially the scoping exercise and the impact assessment, in preparation for the formal launch of the negotiations. taiwan is a close partner of the eu. we share core values such as democracy, freedom and the rule of law. developing closer investment links would not only create economic benefits for both sides, but also allow us to strengthen strategic cooperation in critical sectors like semiconductors. for more than a year, we have been discussing how to reshape and reconfigure our supply chain for the post—covid era. when we do this, i think it’s very important to consider factors such as democracy, trust and the consequences if we pursue closer cooperation and alliance with like—minded countries like taiwan. it’s very strange that the member states expressed solidarity with lithuania, but some of them are very hesitant to give the mandate to you, madam commissioner, to the commission, to start even the scoping exercise and impact assessment. what we are afraid of? i understand that some countries are afraid of reactions from mainland china, but this is something that is against our autonomy, and we always think that we should be autonomous as a european union.
mr president, it has now been six years since we pledged to end the ‘trade for all’ strategy, to reach an agreement with taiwan. six years, and we are still not there. we concluded an agreement with china, yet taiwan is still waiting. and this is not right. we need to have a bilateral investment agreement. there is no single reason not to have this. china shouldn’t be used as an excuse to prevent us from pursuing our own interests in the region. taiwan shares the same values as us. our business leaders are overwhelmingly in favour of this, and as is clearer today than ever, this house is calling for a deal. for a deal now.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. china's unbridled economic and military expansion is without doubt one of the greatest threats to our western community of values. it is therefore very welcome that we are talking today about the intensification of relations between the eu and taiwan. both the eu member states and taiwan in particular are suffering from the global quest for power of the totalitarian regime in beijing. here in europe the people's republic of china is deliberately driving entire nations into economic and technological dependence and then using this with all the severity it can to exert political pressure. taiwan is facing increasingly blatant military aggression from beijing. the question of the possible reunification of the two states is certainly not one for us europeans to answer, but certainly much less by military force. we are convinced of taiwan's right to self-determination and we have a strong interest in peace and stability in the far east. we must not be complacent when china threatens this. no, the people's republic of china is not a fair partner, not economically china's rise in recent decades, which is not as rigid and does not comply with the rules of fair competition, has already cost many thousands of jobs, especially in germany and certainly not politically. taiwan is. it is therefore good and right that we continue to develop our trade relations with this high-tech country. as a trading partner and a bastion of freedom and democracy, it deserves our wholehearted support.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? taiwan is asia's great champion of democracy. a country now under serious political and military threat from the one-party communist state of china. china's recent power-hungry and repressive behaviour in hong kong has created all too much concern in taiwan that they may be next. the west must show its strong support for the taiwanese people and their democracy. this is why we need a clear political signal from the eu that our democracies do not accept china's policies. taiwan is an open and international trading place of great importance to world trade. taiwan is also a favourite destination for innovative european companies wishing to get closer to asia's many emerging markets. the eu must therefore speed up work on a bilateral investment agreement. an agreement will help to strengthen economic growth, increase global competitiveness and ensure a strong, robust investment landscape for european companies.
mr president, democracy, human rights and the rule of law are core values of the european union. agreements and cooperation are primarily done with the like—minded, or at least with those with the same goals and intentions. taiwan is a role model in its region. through deeper cooperation, we will acknowledge the leadership for fundamental rights it takes, including social, economic, political and cultural rights, but also lgbti rights and the rights of the indigenous population. while we see improvements in taiwan, we see the total opposite in china. the chinese oppressive communist regime does not fear to take measures against anyone, in china and beyond. a few months ago, i received a threatening letter from the chinese embassy in sweden, stating, ‘we express strong discontent and firm opposition to your support to the so—called ‘eu—taiwan political relations and cooperation report’. we hope that you withdraw your support immediately and do not pursue this course of action. otherwise, you shall be held responsible for all consequences’. my conviction is clear. i will proudly vote in favour of the report today in defence of democracy and freedom, regardless of the threats of consequences by the oppressive communist regime.
rapporteur. – mr president, it has been an honour and a pleasure as a swede and democrat to steer this recommendation through parliament as rapporteur. thank you to all those who participated in today’s debate, which was conducted in the spirit of free speech, free thought and true democratic deliberation. moreover, i’d like to thank the commissioner for devoting her attention to this matter. kommissær vestager, det glæder mig, at de bemærkede den overvældende støtte til den stærke forbindelse med taiwan. let this parliament and its unwavering support for strengthened ties between europeans and the free taiwanese people be your guide in this work, not least when you face the same kind of pressure from the chinese communist party as the european parliament did. thank you, and let us now continue this work.
madam president, commission and council! this debate is about solidarity and about human life and health. global access to vaccines is crucial to managing the pandemic, and it is in everyone's interest. the eu must act vigorously to ensure global access. we must help others and fight the pandemic in the world. in discussions about pandemics and vaccines, global access needs to be brought up much more clearly. the council will also discuss migration. the eu has not a day to lose. all member states must stand up for a responsible migration policy. but i would also like to mention the item which is not on the agenda for this week's meeting. it's about poland. yesterday we listened to the polish prime minister. a frightening figure which once again shows that the decision-makers in poland do not respect the foundations of our cooperation. we social democrats expect the council to give priority to this issue. we expect all member states to stand up for our common foundation of values, for the rule of law and for the human rights of women and lgbtq people. we all have a responsibility and we cannot allow exceptions. we have many tools. the conditional mechanism is one. it is time for the commission and the council to strike back hard.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the least we can do is as much as possible. for over 30 years now, climate science has been very clear about what we need to do. for over 30 years, climate policy has done too little, too late. actually, we're running out of time. the latest report from the un climate panel has a compilation that shows how the likelihood of us actually reaching the paris agreement is just getting smaller and smaller, and the carbon budget, especially the 1.5 degree target, is shrinking very, very fast. it's almost over. it is, of course, the poor of the world and the young of the world who bear the least responsibility for this and for their sake it is really the least we can do, as much as possible from now on. unfortunately, the speech by ursula von der leyen in this house a few weeks ago showed that the european commission is not at all prepared to deliver what is required. how are we going to convince other parts of the world to deliver on those assumptions when we don't even have a climate policy that's in line with climate science? today and tomorrow we will be taking a position in parliament on a resolution with many good, sharp demands on the world's leaders. demand that all the 2030 targets must be raised, that we must put more money into climate change and climate adaptation in poor countries, and that we must finally, of course, put an end to fossil fuels and first of all put an end to fossil subsidies. this is good, but where were those voices when we were hammering through the eu climate law or when we were discussing our common agricultural policy or emissions trading? unfortunately, it still seems very easy for large groups in this assembly, in this room, to blame other parts of the world without delivering fully. but i would like to ask you all, finally, to do everything possible from now on, to at least preserve the possibility of success with the paris agreement.
mr president, i would like to thank you. just weeks before cop 26, we see news that global fossil fuel production is increasing. it's a development in the wrong direction if we're going to reach our climate goals. at the moment, we also hear many skeptical and anxious voices when it is necessary that entire societies actually need to change. they're voices that are controlled by fear. fear of losing your job, fear of a worse future, fear of being thrown into uncertainty. i understand that fear. but i also know that asking if doesn't have to mean shutting down. the green transition represents enormous opportunities, not just for the climate, but also for jobs and growth. i can see it in my hometown, västerås, where investments in new battery technology are creating hundreds of new jobs. i can see it in the north of my home country of sweden, where sustainable industries of the future are emerging, creating new opportunities and new job markets for entire communities. it takes courageous people who dare to bet and believe in the future. that's why courage must replace fear. hope must replace shame and anxiety. it's when we lead with examples that we can really make a difference. that's when we show that climate investments can also be investments in jobs and growth. that is when we can bring other countries into our important work.
mr talman, colleagues and commissioner! we can't say we don't know, that we can't. the responsibility to save the climate is ours. we can if we want to. i am proud that the eu has decided to be the world's most ambitious environmental organisation, that europe is leading by doing. we need to reduce emissions globally. nothing would be as effective as a global price on carbon dioxide. the polluter must pay even outside the eu. imported emissions can no longer be free. it's just gonna be expensive to get out. we have to stop sponsoring carbon emissions. all subsidies to fossil fuels must be abolished. every day that passes without meeting the climate targets, the situation becomes more urgent. electrification, new technology, modern nuclear power, a move away from fossil fuels is what is needed. we can if we want to.
madam president, i would like to thank you. being a democrat comes with the task of reacting instinctively to those who use threats and violence to try to intimidate other people into silence. we, the elected representatives, have a very special responsibility to be at the forefront of the fight against racism and extremism. we shall be giving concrete expression to the zero tolerance of the democratic opposition towards those who do not respect the democratic rules of the game. the politician who relativises and does not clearly distance himself from the anti-democratic forces is a politician who gives these forces power and opportunities. so who do you want to be? the one that enables racism, hatred and violence? or do you want to be the one to resist?
madam president, i would like to thank you. my colleagues! the attacks on the italian trade union cgil on 9 october are an attack on democracy and the fundamental values of the european union. i'm afraid history is repeating itself. the first concentration camps in germany were intended for trade union activists. under mussolini, the fascists waged war against the trade union movement in italy and on october 9th of this year, the cgil was attacked by the same old darkness. when right-wing extremism is normalized, words quickly lead to action. fascism, nazism, or whatever we choose to call it, is not an opinion. it's a crime! to all of you in this room who claim to be democrats. i hope you will not normalize these disgusting views by collaborating with these right-wing extremists, either in this parliament or at home at national level. in my country, sweden, there is unfortunately a dangerous development in which traditional conservative parties, including the liberal party, have embraced the far-right sweden democrats. let us protest loudly in words and deeds, because today it is the trade union movement in italy and tomorrow it will be each one of us in here.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! since the ban on abortion was introduced in poland, tens of thousands of pregnant women and girls have been affected. a ban on abortion threatens more than just people's health and well-being. it threatens the freedom, dignity and self-reliance of people. sexual and reproductive health is a fundamental part of the health and well-being of all people. it's about choosing when and with whom to have children. this is about the right to safe care. it's about empowerment and sexuality. it's about equality and equal relationships. poland's ban on abortion violates women's fundamental human rights and is contrary to the rule of law. we cannot wait for another anniversary of this terrible law. because the rights of women and girls are human rights.
mr president, regional cooperation and european integration is very important, especially during a time when we see a backlash of our core values. i welcome that the western balkans summit reaffirms the mutual interest and goals of the european union and its western balkan partners. but the actions are absent. yes, some of the countries, such as serbia with its authoritarian president aleksandar vučić, have a long way to go before the common values are respected. but other countries are making serious efforts towards our common values. some of the successful examples are albania, north macedonia and kosovo. two of the countries showing that they not only by words but also by deed, want to be a part of the european family had elections last weekend; one is north macedonia and the other is kosovo. it is impressive to see the democratisation process of, especially, kosovo, where i was last weekend during the elections, as well as it’s important for them to continue the reform processes that must continue. but when genuine steps are taken and achieved, processing the cooperation must be made, also from the side of the european union. the next step in the case of kosovo must be celebration and for north macedonia and albania it must be accession process, to not lose credibility.
mr president, i would like to thank you. my colleagues! commissioner, what is it? in april this year this parliament decided that frontex did not do what can be expected of what is the largest and best funded agency of the eu, but also one of the most important agencies we have. a large number of very worrying deficiencies were pointed out and therefore the discharge decision is postponed. the authority, headed by its director, fabrice leggeri, was given a further six months to remedy these shortcomings, but unfortunately with too poor results. since then, the court of auditors has confirmed the picture we have had in this parliament. since then, too little has happened in the positive direction. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs therefore concluded that neither frontex nor leggeri should be discharged. frontex is an important agency. without effective external border controls, we cannot have the free movement of people within the union that we have today. that is why it is so important that frontex lives up to the high expectations we actually have. it's about treating taxpayers' money with respect. it is about respecting people and their rights and having the courage to tackle the problems that de facto exist. director leggeri has been given a long time, a lot of resources and countless chances to make amends and to do the right thing. for a few years now, frontex has been burdened by accusations of participating in operations that violate human rights, involve pushbacks and violence against migrants. instead of focusing on fully developing functioning complaint mechanisms, time and, above all, money has been spent chasing citizens to pay legal costs in cases concerning requests to obtain documents from the authority. we are also still short 20 human rights monitors. there should be 40 of them, and 20 are done, but another 20 are missing. where's the accountability from director leggeri? to get a discharge, you have to actually take responsibility. i have higher expectations than this for the eu, our governments and their top officials. my colleagues! i wish, as many of you here do, that frontex could be given a discharge, but not this time either, and at this stage it is a reasonable response.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? ladies and gentlemen, today the debate is not about whether the eu's external border authority frontex is or is not. we all recognise the importance of this authority, this eu authority, which is financed by the money of the eu taxpayers. this is not an attack on authority. this is a sensible way of holding its management to account. today the debate is about how the eu's face towards our immediate neighbour works, or rather does not work. when i was elected to this house in 2019, i asked about this with the discharge. what is it, how does it work? and i was told that this is something that we do just as an aside from what we do. i accepted that answer then, but not today. i'm not gonna take that answer today. today, this is a heavy responsibility: that we, who are directly elected by the people, must show that we are using one of our democratic tools to demand accountability, as citizens demand accountability from us every day. frontex is an agency that has had many internal problems. i don't know where to start. first, we had the very serious accusations against the authority that it was involved in pushbacks of asylum seekers. the investigations into what happened end up in a word-for-word situation. you couldn't prove that pushbacks had happened, but you couldn't prove that they hadn't happened. after this, they've just dropped the question. then there is the whole situation where they would hire officials to ensure that the eu's fundamental rights are respected in the exercise of their authority. they were supposed to hire 40 more this spring, but they failed there, too. a few months ago, they had barely hired half of them and blamed it on various reasons, as they always do. now i'm just mentioning a handful of concerns and a handful of things that the agency has had problems with during leggeri's tenure. for that reason, i cannot support granting frontex a discharge this time, and the lack of ambition and the desire to actually show that one is genuinely concerned about what one is accused of, makes it very difficult... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, mr high representative, colleagues, we must admit that our actions at the polish, latvian and lithuanian borders have failed. the migration did not start today, but the means to solve the problem in a fundamental way have not yet been found. i don't understand why we're putting out fires on the european union's border and doing so little to keep those fires from spreading. belarus, with the help of russia, is trying to destabilize the situation in the european union. lavrov, for example, is proposing that the european union pay money to belarus, as it does to turkey, to stop the migrants. we're being openly mocked, and we're still debating what to do. how long is this going to last? the countries guarding the external borders of the european union must receive maximum support as soon as possible. we need to know the european union's clear position on how to deal with migrants and have the means to deal with people who are included in mr lukashenko's dirty plan. thank you. thank you.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in this debate, it was repeatedly overstated that what is happening on the belarusian-polish border is part of a hybrid war being waged by the lukashenka regime and supported by putin and his staff. so we need real sanctions against both regimes, commissioner. we can't just punish belarus. we should also punish the hand that pushes belarus to this kind of action, and from what we hear, the european union is close to accepting the certification of the nord stream 2 gas pipeline, which will provide yet another billion euros to the budget of russia, which will put pressure on the countries of western europe. i would like to thank very warmly all those members of parliament who have thanked my country, poland, and the soldiers who are defending your security at the border - the people sitting here and your voters. yes, 20,000 border guards, soldiers, police officers, defend this border every day against an invasion of immigrants, not refugees. we help refugees: about two thousand people are in the centres that poland helps.
chairman of the counting session. last week, the two dictators, putin and lukashenko, met to reaffirm a joint military doctrine between russia and belarus. today it is clear that lukashenko, who has pledged his eternal allegiance to putin, has been particularly zealous in implementing this doctrine. the attacks on the european union's external border are part of a broader strategy to attack the western value space. to break the divisions and to break the solidarity within europe. putin is leading the charge, and lukashenko is his loyal vassal, trying to negotiate better rental terms from moscow. today we must send a clear message that we stand in solidarity with poland. poland is not a problem, it's a breast country today. what we are seeing is not a refugee crisis, but an attack on the european union using women and children as human shields. the european union shall finance the establishment of border infrastructure, if requested. the sanctions must be moved forward because many european companies that make money and pay taxes in belarus are supporting the criminal regime. the airlines that transport people to belarus should also be sanctioned. similarly, strong pressure must be put on source countries to end their facilitation of organised trafficking in human beings. thank you.
mr president, high representative borrell, when a humanitarian challenge reaches a critical juncture, precisely at the most difficult and unmanageable moments, it is useful to return to the principles, and the first is to remind us that if there are unscrupulous rulers who 'weaponize', as we used to say, the unspeakable suffering of defenceless human beings, whether on the african continent's sea or land border with the european union, whether in the east, whether in the aegean islands, in turkey, whether in the north, whether in belarus, lukashenka's endless and corrupt dictatorship over his own people, shaking up the border in poland, lithuania or latvia, it is because they believe they can gain an advantage from a european response which is not the united thing. the second lesson is that the european response must be united and also consistent with its values, in solidarity with poland, lithuania, latvia and the whole of southern europe, but above all consistent with its own legislation. so the third lesson is that law matters: human rights matter, the fundamental rights of those desperate people who are being exploited at the external border, but also european asylum law, the common european asylum system, which is binding on all member states and must be respected. and of course there is also the external dimension, the protection of the external borders of the union, which must be unitary: not in solidarity with poland and latvia, but in the awareness that it is the border of the european union as a whole, as in the african continent ceuta and melilla, or as the aegean islands: of the european union as a whole. and so the important message is that it must be known that it is an ironic lesson for poland, which has questioned the consistency of european law, that the very unity of the european union is being tested on poland's border with the rogue lukashenka regime in belarus.
mr president, mr high representative, mr josep borrell, the situation on the polish-belarusian border is appalling. children, women and men are being used as weapons to destabilize our common european space. in the face of this new hybrid threat, the pillars of the european project, the integrity of our common borders and our humanist and peaceful values, are shaking. the person in charge - several colleagues have said - is called lukashenko. it is against him that we must take a firm stand. with my colleagues from the renew europe group, we, mr high representative, want a strong and swift european response in support of poland and lithuania, stronger sanctions against the lukashenko regime and sanctions against airlines that increase flights to belarus. in substance, we will also have to revise the schengen code to establish a rapid response to these new hybrid threats. and then, with my colleague, róża thun, i would like to call on the polish government to refuse the support of our agencies frontex and europol. the protection of the external borders is everyone's business, and i want a union that is united and solidary.
mr president, humanitarian catastrophe: that is what this is about. people are stuck in no man’s land. we have the dictatorship of lukashenko on one side, and then on the other side we have the authoritarianism of kaczyński. the tool of dictatorship is the same regardless of if we talk about lukashenko in belarus or erdoğan in turkey. using human beings who are already in vulnerable situations is a disgrace. lukashenko’s dictatorship doesn’t have very long tentacles beyond its own borders, and we should therefore not show any mercy. it’s all about sanctions, sanctions, sanctions. and we also need to continue supporting the democratic opposition of belarus. it is people’s lives we are talking about. the even sadder part is the action of our own member state. the polish national conservative party in government, we already know, knows no borders. and they do not know how to spell rule of law, nor democracy, and nor do they know how to spell human rights. it’s not acceptable that journalists, frontex and the unhcr are banned from working in the border area. and finally we need a common migration and asylum policy in place so that no dictators can dictate our way of acting.
mr president, let us be clear what this is about. this is about a dictator that uses all means possible to cling to power – the power that he has stolen from the belarusian people. this is about lukashenko trying to destabilise the european union, and this is a goal that he shares with the regime in moscow. this is not about migration policy. this is now a question of whether europe can stand strong or whether europe is weak. so, high representative, i must say that now is the time for europe to show that we will support poland, that we will support latvia, lithuania. we have to protect the european borders. and yes, we should always protect european values too. but this is not the time to give in and be weak. so please, high representative, be strong and defend europe.
president, when the people's republic of china joined the world trade organisation in 2001, it was intended that trade would increase and china would gradually become a liberal market democracy. however, this is not what we expected. china is choosing its own course, combining state capitalism with a very assertive trade policy. the recent eu-us trade and technology council meeting in pittsburgh, where the eu and the us demonstrated that they can meet the technological challenges of the 21st century and that they can best address them at the transatlantic level, was therefore of great importance. to protect our prosperity and way of life, we must maintain the technological edge of the west. for example, the netherlands is at the top of the global semiconductor market, which is a geopolitical advantage. the current supply chain problems therefore need to be addressed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let pittsburgh therefore be the starting point for closer transatlantic cooperation, with other like-minded countries also joining in.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have an enthusiastic narrative, rightly enthusiastic, in the comment we make in the light of the agreement underlying the establishment of this us-european trade and technology council. the enthusiasm is legitimate, the political subjectivity of the european union consists in belonging to the atlantic axis with the united states, but this agreement also documents the existence of a wound. the wound that has been plaguing this axis politically for some time: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, including the one on afghanistan, the one on the fight against climate change, and the one on defence, with the aukus agreement. so the point is, on the one hand, the technological presidium -- algorithmic transparency and everything else -- and commercial, but on the other hand, who will take the political lead in this huge game. who will be the political leader of europe in exploiting the content of this new agreement with the united states?
mr president, it has been an exciting couple of weeks for transatlantic relations. after a turbulent summer we are picking up on the positive momentum – from lifting the travel ban, joint environment commitments in glasgow, meetings on the highest level, suspension of the aluminium and steel trade dispute, the pittsburgh meeting – to name a few. in my capacity as a standing rapporteur for relations with the us, i fully recognise the importance of the ttc for our overall relations. it’s one of the key pillars. we want to see sustainable, ethical and inclusive digital and green transitions that benefit our citizens. i would like to underline the issue of transparency and parliamentary cooperation. even though the ttc is not negotiating a new comprehensive trade agreement, we learned our lesson from the transatlantic trade and investment partnership. this is why i join calls to involve parliamentarians from both sides in your work. we are ready to contribute to this positive agenda.
mr president, while this council is a major opportunity, there is no doubt that the european union and the united states have a lot of potential for common action and cooperation. and our agenda is finally on the right track. but we must ensure that this doesn’t become just a talking shop. we need to prioritise. we need to make tangible suggestions. the goal of each meeting should be a concrete result and concrete action. the procedure to implement any decision will, however, take time, so we need to move quickly, or it may be too late. some have pointed out that the ttc should not turn into just a china-bashing exercise. they are right, but we cannot ignore the geopolitical reality and who our main competitor is.
mr president, i would like to thank you. trade is a prerequisite for growth, prosperity, development and innovation, but it is also a tool for ensuring peace and security. 'trade needs democracy', said the us secretary of commerce when she visited us this summer. but democracy also needs trade. when we look at the world through the lens of trade policy, it becomes clear that democracies need to work together, just as the eu and the us are now doing in areas such as digitisation and technology. we should have high expectations of this cooperation, that it will increase competitiveness, deliver less hassle and less bureaucracy which benefits both businesses and consumers and stimulate green technology development that helps us reduce emissions. we expect new common rules to be based on democratic values with respect for human rights and privacy. every new bond between the eu and the us is important. the world's leading democracies are strong. we are stronger together.
mr president, madam vice-president, the united states, by its history and its values, is a natural ally of europe. our economies are already closely interlinked, but the need to strengthen that relationship has grown as the world has become more global; the trade and technology council has opened up new prospects for strengthening that partnership, especially in such a crucial area as digitalisation. i want to focus on five areas where a common effort is urgently needed: finding solutions to the semiconductor supply crisis; promoting the development of trust-building artificial intelligence; developing coordinated cybersecurity policies and actions; working on a crucial and decisive area such as standards; and moving towards a transatlantic data space that will enable our researchers and our businesses to realise their full potential. a delegation from the committee on industry, research and energy was in washington d.c. a few days ago, and the renewed interest was evident: this momentum cannot be lost, madam vice-president, and the trade and technology council must start to bear fruit.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i have to say that i am very pleased. global trade is being disrupted by increasingly protectionist winds, and we must change that now. global trade is the solution to many of our challenges. people, jobs and our prosperity depend on trade. i welcome the ttc as a new start to chart our common values and to deepen the eu-us alliance. we will work with all allies who want to maintain free, fair and rules-based trade. it is therefore important that we now weave our ambitions together, that we maintain secure and resilient supply chains for digital products and services and that we fully support globalisation. of the ten working groups, i would like to focus on the one on small businessmen today. my question to the commission is this: what is the commission's objective in the work of the trade and tech council for european smes?
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. coordination of eu action to address the covid-19 outbreak was on the agenda as early as march 2020, when the european council met. it now stands for 'coordination of measures in the light of the increasing number of covid cases in the eu'. yes, it is on the agenda today, 20 months later, but the discussion is as important now as it was then. now, the number of cases is rising across europe, but there's a big difference between the discussion from march 2020 and the discussions we're having now, because in 20 months, the institutions and the member states have increased their knowledge, and in the eu, we have a common vaccine in place. we must now show that we are taking responsibility, and it is critical that we make use of the lessons we have learned. our focus will continue to be on containing the spread of the infection. we're here to protect lives, health and jobs. vaccination is obviously an important part of this. each individual must take his responsibility and each member state must do its part. the eu must take advantage of the lessons we have learned about the importance of coordination and cooperation. this is critical. we can only solve this together and now we must continue to act.
mr president, i would like to thank you. already today, our geostrategic dependence on china is very great. for example, china accounts for 98% of the eu's needs for rare earth metals and controls to a large extent the trade in cobalt for electric car batteries. the new climate targets and massive investments in e-mobility and weather-dependent energy will further increase this dependent diversity. it is becoming increasingly clear that china is the big winner in the eu's climate change transition, because we are already seeing the effects of the eu's aggressive ambitions in the form of rising energy prices, inflation, reduced competitiveness and increased dependence on the outside world, as china both increases its emissions and consolidates its geopolitical position in the supply of raw materials and the manufacture of vital components. i regret to say that the transition which the commission believes should make us successful and independent of dictatorships is not adequately analysed. it's time to rethink.
madam president, ‘you europeans care more about protecting endangered frogs than about us endangered christians’ – these words were uttered to me when i met the syrian orthodox bishop of mosul at the height of the isis offensive in iraq. of course, his community has sunk from 1.5 million to about 200 000 people in just 15 years. so, for him to see how the eu just stays passive and silent is a sheer provocation. it took the commission two years to appoint a special envoy for religious freedom of belief, and now the position is again vacant. while we have experienced the terrorist attacks in sri lanka, the rohingya in myanmar, the uyghurs in china, the slaughter of christians in nigeria, how much more time will it take, commissioner, before you appoint a special envoy?
mr president, i would like to thank you. that's the amount the eu spends on agriculture every year. that is why i am particularly incensed when investigation after investigation reveals how unscrupulously, and most crudely, businessmen in the sector exploit people on our continent. it is about people forced to sleep like animals in cold stables or in collapsing barns, with broken protective clothing and dangerous machinery. and perhaps worst of all: accidents and deaths that are covered up and silenced. it is an insult to all those who work in agriculture and forestry and it is an insult to all serious businessmen who are struggling in the sector. i am therefore glad that we are finally getting a powerful economic leverage in the eu's agricultural policy. fraudsters, criminals and pure slave drivers will not have a share of our tax money. together we can thus bring order to european agriculture and forestry.
madam president, if you use human beings, children, as weapons in your political game, if you steal young men and women’s freedom, and when, like the dictator of belarus, you act as a terrorist, you should end up in court. lukashenko’s contempt for human rights has no limits, nor does his disrespect for international law, peace and security. to all victims of trafficking, to all of you 884 political prisoners today, i want to say we are with you. to all of you who have someone you love detained, i want to say we stand with you. it’s time for the people of belarus to decide about their own future. it’s not a matter for putin or anyone else. it’s time for tougher sanctions and it’s time for my country, sweden, as well as the european union, to hoist a white and red flag in solidarity with a free belarus.
rapporteur. – madam president, we are 27 member states in the european union. our region ranks as one of the most prosperous and wealthiest regions in the world. our member states are always ranked as some of the best countries to live in and work in worldwide. our economies are strong thanks to our businesses and their workers, who continue to improve our daily lives. but the truth is our economies are facing challenges that we have not experienced before. today, a challenge that is becoming more and more pressing is the demographic shift in our continent. the shift will exert greater pressure on public budgets when it comes to funding while fewer people will be working to generate tax revenues for social security systems in the budget and more people dependent on social security systems. you do not have to be a mathematician to understand or realise that the sums don’t add up. the mismatch of skills on the member states’ labour markets causes our economies to lose over 2% of productivity every year. businesses are struggling to find adequate skilled workers within our member states or within the union. when our companies and businesses struggle to find skilled workers, they struggle then with growing and expanding. that means losing out on creating more jobs, opportunities and on tax revenues to fund our welfare services. the demographic and economic challenges that our member states are facing is an urgent issue. we need to address it properly and with adequate solutions. to properly address the issue of mismatch of skills and difficulties in recruitment of workers, the eu needs to become a more attractive region. a more attractive region and the notion of becoming attractive for labour migrants of all skill levels who are considering moving abroad for work. but how do we become as a region more attractive? how do we avoid falling into economic stagnation? how do we tackle our demographic challenge? in my report, i have included several proposals that provide solutions to these problems. with the talent pool, third-country nationals will be able to register and express their interest in migrating to the eu. employers will be able to quickly search and find the workers with the right set of skills that they need. this will improve matching of the labour markets of the eu member states and meet their different needs and even help businesses grow. in this report, i have also addressed the issue of medium- and low-skilled labour migration, and it is simply because of the fact that over 13% of key workers in our societies are labour migrants, especially in the agricultural and health sectors. the businesses of our member states have large differences in terms of needs, and that is why we need an admission scheme for all skill levels. we cannot, to be honest, speak of creating opportunities to fill vacancies in the labour market without also addressing the issue of exploitation and abuse in our labour markets of labour migrants. seasonal workers are often prone to be exploited by their employers. by allowing them to leave an abusive employer and find a new one without having their work permit revoked for a three-month period, we will give them an option to leave an exploitative employer without having the risk of losing their legal right to stay within the eu. council representative, dear commissioner and dear colleagues, in the debate on labour migration let us not forget one thing. labour migration means that a person arrives in the eu, in a member state within the eu, and starts working directly, pays their taxes, and contributes to funding our welfare states and being an active part of our societies. it should not be compared or mixed up with other parts of migration or asylum policies, as a well-functioning legislative framework for labour migration can be described as a triple win: a win for european businesses, a win for the employee, and a win for the member state. i would like to take this opportunity as well and thank my dear shadow colleagues with whom we have been negotiating to achieve this file. they have been very constructive, and although we sometimes had some difficult discussions touching upon sensitive issues, we have always shared a common goal and it is to find a final agreement, even if we had to make some difficult compromises. i do hope that you all will vote in favour of this report.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the complex question of how to secure demand for labour and how to eliminate exploitation and the more or less slave-like conditions of the labour market we call the black market has been on the eu agenda for decades, but few significant steps towards change have been taken. the lack of legal pathways, especially for migrants working in low- and middle-wage sectors, combined with the growing number of closed borders and restrictive migration policies, are forcing people to make life-threatening journeys to reach their dreams of jobs in safe conditions for decent pay. the green group therefore welcomes the report presented by our colleague, mr abir al-sahlani. if the report's demands are implemented, it will clearly improve the conditions for migrants coming to the eu to work. however, we have tabled an amendment to reflect the need for an intersectional approach to migration legislation. immigrant workers are not a homogeneous group, and we know that women, for example, are particularly vulnerable and at risk of exploitation. anyone who does not support the report by mr al-sahlani is accepting the exploitation of human beings at the cost of their lives. i hope there are many of us who want to see a change.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, commissioner, this report from our ‘swedish open border brigade’ isn’t just out of touch with hard working europeans, it’s completely detached from reality. it believes that illegal migration – quote – ‘requires the development of legal and safe migration pathways in order to reshape rather than prevent migration trends’. considering that this report concerns low— and medium—skilled labour migration, that sounds like eu speak for legalising illegal migration. is the european parliament’s solution to turkey and morocco opening the floodgates? let them in? to belarus, weaponising migrants? let them in? now, hundreds of millions of people wish to come to europe if given the opportunity. such volumes will only exacerbate unemployment, stagnant wages, not to mention that migrants with incompatible cultures will bring about even less social cohesion. it’s not just last night in sweden, it’s last night in amsterdam, it’s last night in paris. european leaders seem to have finally smelt the coffee. they realise that we’re losing control. president michel has called for eu funding of external border barriers. president von der leyen praised greece for being europe’s shield. even commissioner johansson acknowledged that lithuania’s border barrier is a good idea. we, conservatives, opposed this report. if you want to take back control, then you should too.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i must say that i do not agree with the previous speaker one word, i think. but that is not what i was going to say, but i would like to say that the world trade organization is our most important arena for achieving a freer, rules-based and fairer global trade. at the same time, the organization is now weakened by the dark clouds that have been cast upon the world order. we must not least resolve the situation that there is currently no dispute settlement body to resolve trade disputes. at the same time, the covid-19 pandemic has accelerated and focused attention on the importance of trade in addressing health challenges and the importance of intellectual property rights. nevertheless, we can hear in this house how the votes are now being raised to temporarily lift the patent protection. it is a dangerous road to take, because patent protection is a crucial incentive for companies to invest in innovation and produce new medicines. so stripping the drug companies of their patents would diminish the availability of vaccines. the way forward is to remove export restrictions and tariffs on medicines and medical devices. that's how we're fighting this pandemic and future pandemics.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the 26th un climate conference in glasgow has just concluded and now the world's countries are coming together in the wto to tackle the problems facing the world trade organisation. europe has a key role to play in this and the eu must show that it stands for free, rules-based trade and that it is a stable trading partner to be reckoned with in a digital world. open trade is more important than ever. the pandemic has demonstrated the need to keep trade routes open and not to stop or impede trade in medicines, vaccines and medical supplies. trade policy can make a major contribution to achieving the crucial climate goals, but it must never become an obstacle to biodiversity. sustainable rules can stop fossil fuel subsidies, promote free trade in climate-smart goods and make the polluter pay for imported emissions too. the trade summit must pick up where the climate summit left off. we need more sustainable trade, not green protectionism.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu learned a clear lesson from cop26: our policy is inadequate. the emissions gap must be closed, and fast. all countries were called upon to raise their ambitions for the 2030 targets at cop27 next year, including the eu. we must now demonstrate this with concrete emission reductions. not just some kind of figure whistle for possible carbon sinks, but concrete emissions reductions here and now in this decade. it is often said that the eu is the leader in climate change, but we must also acknowledge that if the rest of the world were to pursue our climate policy, we would see global warming of 3 degrees rather than 2 degrees by 2100, according to independent assessors. is that leadership? leadership must be about having a climate policy that takes responsibility for future emissions in line with science and withstands scientific scrutiny, and that also takes full responsibility for the emissions we have already made. frans timmermans, you mentioned in glasgow on a few occasions and just now also your grandchild and your children. i have grandchildren of my own age, and i am convinced that we really want to be able to look them in the eye and say that we as adults have taken our responsibility to solve the problems that we as adults have created. but then we'd all have to step out of the sandbox. i still hear some of you wanting to blame others. if others want to sit in the sandbox and blame each other, let them, but we must rise up now and take full responsibility for what we have done and what we are going to do.
mr president, we desperately need a food revolution. globally, food and farming systems contribute up to 30% of our greenhouse gas emissions and contribute to an even bigger proportion of biodiversity loss. why is this ignored in the global climate negotiations? again, cop26 failed to address this crucial issue. again, the big cow in the room was ignored. we cannot save the climate crisis if we don’t address one of the biggest drivers of climate change: our overly intensive farm-animal production system and the promotion and consumption of meat, dairy and eggs. our food system is a ticking time bomb, and if we don’t fix it now the food security will be at stake. so let’s talk about food, commissioner.
mr president, i would like to thank you. climate change is a global problem that also requires global solutions. the meeting in glasgow a few weeks ago is an important reminder that international climate action is what can really make a difference. as a union, the eu accounts for one tenth of global emissions. so it is quite obvious that to make the transition, we simply have to get others on board. it requires forward-looking climate diplomacy. we could see at cop26 that several steps were taken that were important and in the right direction for us to be able to implement the paris agreement in practice. but while we see a growing consensus on the need to limit global warming, there is no doubt that the measures taken so far are insufficient. we need to do more. we need to set high standards not only for ourselves but also for other major emitters, especially those that still oppose important reforms. the eu must step in. it is neither sustainable nor reasonable for us in europe to do all the work ourselves while others try to slow down. there's a lot of work to be done. an important step would be to seriously work towards a global price for carbon dioxide, something which the un panel of experts also highlighted as a necessary instrument to reduce global emissions. at the same time, different countries have different conditions for change. we therefore need to do more to help others to take action on climate, not least through our aid and development policies. more countries also need to move their foot from the brake to the gas in climate action. i think cop26 proves that all the countries of the world need to do a little bit more.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the 26th un climate conference in glasgow has just concluded, but instead of focusing on the disappointments, we must now look ahead. in a few days' time the world's countries will be meeting in the wto to address the problems facing world trade. europe has a key role to play in this, and the eu must show that we stand for free and rules-based trade, that we are a stable trading partner and that we are serious about making trade more sustainable. trade policy can contribute to the crucial climate goals to a much greater extent than it does today. it must never become an obstacle to biodiversity. through sustainable regulations, we can end fossil fuel subsidies, promote free trade in climate-smart goods and make the polluter pay, no matter where the emissions occur. the trade summit must pick up where the glasgow climate summit left off.
i now proceed to the opening of today's voting. we shall now proceed to the votes on the items on the agenda. the voting will take place from 12.30 to 13.45. the vote will be taken in accordance with the same procedure as in the previous round. the vote will take place by roll-call. i call the votes to order. the vote will take place at 1.45 p.m. the results of the vote will be announced at 4.30 p.m. the discussions in the aula will resume at 15.00 with the discussion on current issues, such as the fight against the covid-19 pandemic and how to vaccinate the rest of the planet. thank you for your participation. (the sitting was suspended at 12.42 p.m.)
(the sitting was resumed at 3.03 p.m.) the president. we have a point of order. mr weber, please.
madam president, only 30 years ago, europeans witnessed how a war can tear up a country in its struggle for independence and liberty. last week, on 18 november, croatia marked the 30th remembrance day for the vukovar and škabrnja and the horrific massacre that followed. these places were symbols of liberty and resistance. and we recall all the heroes to whom the croatian people owe their freedom and democracy. their sacrifice should be embedded in european collective memory. the same as the sacrifice of millions of other europeans throughout the 20th century. i would therefore ask you, madam president, and dear colleagues, to honour their memory with a minute of silence.
thank you very much, colleague weber. we will do it now. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the eu's role in combating the covid-19 pandemic: how to vaccinate the world (2021/2926 ((rsp)) in accordance with rule 162 of the rules of procedure. i would remind you that during this part-session there will be no requested speeches or blue card questions. i would also point out that, as in the recent partsession, the speakers can be reached by remote connection from the liaison offices of the member states. i would also remind you that the speakers in the chamber will continue to use the platform in the centre of the chamber. i urge you to follow the list of speakers and move closer to the podium as your time to speak begins.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, this year, the long-awaited covid-19 vaccines gave us hope that we might be at the beginning of the end of this pandemic. on 31 august, the eu reached a crucial milestone, with 70% of the adult population fully vaccinated. we must remain cautious and vigilant and strive to further increase the rate of vaccinated, especially given current trends. however, nobody is safe until everyone is safe. we have seen the value of standing united in tackling common global challenges and the value of international solidarity in ensuring vaccine coverage around the world. the european union is committed to ensuring that everyone who needs a vaccine gets it. it is essential to ensure vaccination for the most vulnerable of the population in low and middle-income countries, and to do so at an affordable cost – not only because it is the right thing to do, but also for our own sake. i’m proud to say that the eu has played a leading role in the international efforts to provide covid-19 vaccines across the world. through the team europe covid-19 global response approach, the eu has contributed over three billion euros to covax (covid-19 vaccines global access), bringing us closer to the covax objective of delivering at least 1.8 billion doses to 92 lower and middle-lower income countries by the end of 2021. through the eu civil protection mechanism, the eu has made support available for the delivery of both vaccines and ancillary material. additionally, the eu continues to be the largest global exporter of covid—19 vaccines, having exported close to one billion vaccine doses to 59 countries around the globe. it should not go unnoticed that europe was willing to share half of our vaccine production with the rest of the world. the eu is determined to support an increase in covid-19 vaccine production, as well as a broader geographical distribution of manufacturing capacity in order to meet global needs. for example, team europe is investing eur 1 billion to ramp up mrna (messenger rna) production capacity in africa. activities in several sub-saharan african countries are already underway in south africa, senegal and rwanda. vaccine sharing is crucial in assisting low and medium-income level countries in carrying out their vaccination programmes. the eu must show leadership, heading multilateral and global efforts in vaccine distribution. we have delivered to europe, and now we must deliver to the world. in may this year, the european council already stated a target of donating at least 100 million doses by the end of the year, but this has been topped up by commitments made by the commission and member states individually. currently, total eu commitments reach over 500 million doses until mid—2022. unfortunately, a series of unexpected bottlenecks and obstacles seriously hampered deliveries, meaning that we have not yet reached our initial ambitions. this is now steadily improving – from four million doses donated by mid-july to 20 million doses by mid-september. donations delivered by the eu stand now at close to 100 million doses. with a substantial and guaranteed supply of vaccines at member states’ disposal, eu deliveries should pick up speed. i’m well aware of your calls for the temporary waiving of international intellectual property protection obligations for covid-19-related vaccines and medical products. the eu is engaging in dialogue in the context of the wto and other international fora to explore how patent pooling, licensing initiatives and vaccine knowledge-sharing platforms can best support affordable and equitable access to covid-19 production. relying on a voluntary solution for the sharing of intellectual property knowhow and data is seen as a promising way to ensure worldwide access to critical products for diagnosing, treating and preventing covid-19, including vaccines. we must seize this opportunity together, as a global community, to address the crisis. in our international solidarity, we must be guided by fairness, transparency and inclusiveness. i can assure you of one thing, the eu will continue leading the multilateral response to the pandemic, ensuring that no one is left behind.
member of the commission. – madam president, viruses know no borders. we have so often said this phrase, and it’s now almost two years after this pandemic was declared and covid—19 is continuing to devastate country after country, exposing how fragile we are, not just as individual countries, but also as a global community. today’s debate on the eu’s role in combating the covid—19 pandemic gives all of us an opportunity to highlight our global engagement and show solidarity, but also to underline the areas where we need to do more. we need to do more, not only morally and politically, but also for the sake of our own public health. we, the eu and member states, acting as team europe, are at the very centre of the global effort against covid—19, and we have been at the very centre from the very beginning. we can be proud of our eur 46 billion contribution to international efforts to fight this pandemic. the pandemic has now shifted to a new phase. we have vaccinated almost 76.3% of adults and almost 65.1% of our total population. this, one could say, is a european success story, but it is not enough if we do not vaccinate the world. accelerating global vaccination rates and helping to reach the 70% we are targeting by the middle of next year needs to be our top priority. today, team europe leads vaccine solidarity efforts with our collective donation of more than eur 3 billion to covax, the global vaccine sharing mechanism. honourable members of this house, you have been at the forefront of our efforts to support covax. through covax, more than 525 million doses have reached 144 countries in every single corner of the world, but there is still such a long way to go before covax meets its target of delivering 1.4 billion doses to low and middle—income countries by the end of 2021. as has been said, covax has experienced unforeseen setbacks, such as the devastating outbreak of the delta variant in india, which temporarily halted vaccine production. we exported more than 1.2 billion doses to third countries and stepped up our own vaccine-sharing programme. more than half of our vaccine production has been exported, and since the beginning, the eu has been the world’s leading exporter of covid vaccines. it has never been about europe first. it has always been europe for the world. in addition to the over 250 million doses to be shared by member states by the end of 2021, president von der leyen announced a new commitment of another 200 million doses to low and middle-income countries by mid-2022. while the majority of these donations will be facilitated by covax, we have begun leveraging the eu’s own vaccine-sharing mechanism to accelerate delivery through bilateral donations and reselling to beneficiaries. many of these are already facilitated by the civil protection mechanism. i want to take this opportunity to commend our member states for accelerating vaccine sharing over recent weeks and months. so far, dose sharing has accounted for over 40% of the vaccines delivered through covax, and team europe’s contribution has been, and continues to be, vital to ensuring equitable access to vaccines. however, we must not stop now. cooperation with our african partners in particular, where vaccination rates in many countries still rate below 10%, needs to intensify, and the eu will work with covax to further improve eu vaccine sharing and increase visibility. we are already seeing promising results, with the announcement this week of 100 million johnson & johnson doses donated by team europe to be delivered in the next few weeks. we must continue to promote voluntary licensing agreements for manufacturers to supply vaccines at affordable prices to the most vulnerable members. with the african union—eu summit approaching in february, i trust that team europe will come together once more to coordinate a large donation package for africa. many of you have pointed out that, in the mid to long term, we need more vaccine donation programmes. covid-19, among others, has highlighted an underlying structural problem – the wide discrepancy in medical manufacturing capabilities around the world. africa, for example, still imports 99% of its vaccines. in order to fight the current pandemic and prevent future ones, countries must be able to produce their own vaccines. they need stronger health systems. some geographical regions, such as latin america, have been hit hard by the pandemic and are working in this direction. in may this year, the eu launched an initiative to boost local manufacturing capacities in africa, for africa, financed by at least eur 1 billion from the eu budget. member states are joining this initiative. it will support the efforts of the african union, and we have begun to make real progress. we have mobilised our first packages for senegal, rwanda and south africa. more will follow, and we will be here to update you in the coming months. as part of our broader engagement, we are working to establish regional technology transfer hubs, improve regulatory capacity and strengthen the enabling environment to manufacture vaccines. we’re working with our trading partners to deliver on a trade policy to the covid—19 pandemic in advance of the 12th ministerial conference in the wto. we’re advocating for a holistic approach, which would include an understanding on intellectual property in addition to commitments in improving transparency, restraints from export restrictions, as well as trade facilitating measures, amongst others. what we urgently need now is a commitment from all wto members to engage in a solution—oriented manner to find an outcome that really makes a difference on the ground, while also presenting incentives for innovation and investment. the eu will continue its efforts in the run—up to the twelfth wto ministerial conference to achieve such an outcome. our goals are ambitious, but the pandemic requires nothing less and demands nothing less. to achieve our shared goals, it will be important for us to continue to combine our resources and our expertise. we do know we have a long way to go, but we are not going to waver in our efforts. i look forward to the debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, like the commissioner and minister i would of course also highlight the low vaccination rate we see in africa. it is extremely worrying. this is threatening lives and livelihoods across the continent, but i would also say that it is preventing us from achieving the vital goal, and that is to vaccinate the world. now, more than ever, europe must embrace global solidarity, multilateralism and partnership. we must continue to employ the team europe approach, double—down on our efforts to support the covax facility, share more doses, resolve supply chain bottlenecks, ensure that global supply chains remain open and continue to support the expansion of africa’s vaccine manufacturing. these concrete actions set out a truly effective global strategy that directly translates into more shots in the arm, as well as building resilience for future pandemics. this approach strongly contrasts with the empty symbolism of the trips waiver, which would not only be ineffective but even harmful, with a negative impact on our readiness for future health crises. as chair of parliament’s committee on development, i strongly support the ambitious vaccine pledges made by the commission and the member states. however, my support comes with one crucial condition, and that is that these pledges will be honoured. i think we should be proud that europe is doing more than others, but let’s make sure that we keep leading the work and end this pandemic together.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. imagine a pandemic coming at you with full force. imagine a vaccine is developed and vaccinations are accelerated. imagine that the majority of the population in some parts of the world is fully vaccinated. but now imagine that you live in a poor country where only five percent -- and i repeat, five percent -- have had their first dose. this is not a made-up example. this is a harsh reality. this is what it looks like, if we just look at africa, for example, in our vicinity. because no one is safe until everyone is safe. these words are beginning to sound cliché, but it is absolutely essential that we keep repeating this phrase and, above all, that we act. the pandemic is on the rise again and despite the fact that we have secured important vaccines, the vaccination rate is uneven and uneven, even in our eu. that is why we and our member states must ensure that more people are vaccinated, both within the union and outside. we must do more to ensure that all countries have access to the vaccine. equal access to vaccines is our best hope for slowing the pandemic and saving lives. it is about acting in solidarity, preventing health consequences and mitigating the negative consequences for our economy. today we're going to ask ourselves, "how can the whole world be vaccinated?" as a social democrat, my answer is clear: it requires political will. it requires that we show solidarity and that we dare to make bold and smart decisions that put equality and gender mainstreaming at the centre. i repeat: no one is safe until everyone is safe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. on saturday i will be at home in northern sweden. it's going to be minus 20 degrees cold. my house will be warm. it's de-insulated and heated with green energy. that's how everyone in europe should be. it's urgent and we must hurry. we need to speed up the green investments. we must speed up the integration of europe's energy networks, which we are negotiating at the moment. the report shows that renewable energy is now the largest energy source. that's very good. we can also see that nine of the countries in europe have phased out coal. that's very good, too. but it's not enough, if we're going to meet the climate goals for 2030 and 2050, we have to accelerate. so my wish is that commissioner kadri can give us a hint as to how they are working to speed up these processes. the pandemic, we saw, reduced energy consumption, and we know that in times of crisis and whenever we want, we can change our behavior. it's important that we do it now with the climate, but that it be done fairly. northern sweden is part of the arctic. it's cold in there. my house is warm. that's how it should be in every house in europe.
mr president, thank you for the floor. i want to talk on behalf of all those who have supported our call to ensure a meaningful vote for the whole parliament on the directive for adequate minimum wages. i want to start by thanking marianne vind, nikolaj villumsen, malin björk and other colleagues from different groups and member states who have contributed to collecting signatures. because, colleagues, the proposal for a directive on adequate minimum wages in the eu is perhaps one of the most important files during this mandate. it is therefore only reasonable that the whole parliament get a meaningful say on our position, not just the 35 members who voted in favour of the mandate in the committee on employment and social affairs (empl). by voting against the trilogue mandate today we would secure a meaningful vote on the directive in the plenary in december. otherwise, we will not see this file until it’s a done deal after the trilogues. council has not yet adopted its position so we can afford the three weeks requested to ensure a democratic and meaningful vote on parliament’s position. i therefore urge you to vote against a negotiating mandate for the minimum wage file today. i would also like to tell you about the specific concerns from a swedish and danish perspective. in our countries, businesses, trade unions and all political parties across the spectrum, all agree that this proposal risks undermining our well-functioning collective bargaining models. in all political groups here in parliament, danish and swedish colleagues have tried to get support for meaningful safeguards for our labour market models. unfortunately, our concerns are not reflected in the committee report, so voting against the mandate today will also give us more time to find a solution. in conclusion, give us time to find solutions by voting against the negotiating mandate.
mr president, i would like to thank you. every day, women are beaten, raped, and killed or murdered by men close to them. every day, children are also exposed to the abuse that actually is seen and heard in their mothers. we can keep talking about it being like this. or we decide to do more to stop it. it's possible, but it requires that we use the tools that are available, that work. in other words, the politician, the party group, the parliament, the government or the commission that does not do what is required, that does not use the tools that actually exist, are all politicians who accept that men abuse, rape and kill women. you know who you are, and we know who you are.
mr president, i would like to thank you. yes, male violence against women is one of our greatest social problems. it is both a cause and a consequence of unequal societies, and violence in all its forms is preventable, but it requires political will. we cannot afford to wait another day for women to enjoy their human rights. it's also about the kids. every child has the right to a safe and loving childhood, and no child should have to experience violence. no child should see their mother be abused by a man, and all girls and women should have the right to live their lives free from violence and abuse. it is therefore important that both the eu and all member states ratify the istanbul convention. we can't wait another day. women and girls have the right to live a life free from violence and abuse.
mr president, i would like to thank you. even before the pandemic, violence against women was far too widespread here in the eu. one third of all european women have been subjected to some form of violence, that is to say, one in three women in this room and in the whole of the eu. every day, a woman dies because of intimate partner violence. this pandemic has allowed domestic violence to flourish freely, and some conservative forces have exploited the pandemic to further restrict women's human rights. the aim of the istanbul convention is to protect women from violence, but it is portrayed as gender propaganda and a threat to the nuclear family. the polish government, led by the law and justice party, is the first european country to withdraw from the convention. instead of working against all forms of violence against women, the same government has proposed the introduction of a national register of pregnant women, thus institutionalising violations of women's human rights - the same government whose strict abortion laws have led to the death of a woman. this is not a gender equality problem for the eu in our society, mr commissioner, this is a disgrace to us. i expect concrete action so that we can put an end to violence against women throughout the eu.
madam president, i would like to thank you. my colleagues, commissioner dalli! violence against women by men is ranked by the eu's own fundamental rights agency (fra) as one of the most serious human rights violations in recent years. when crises strike, existing problems are reinforced and structures are further consolidated. the covid-19 pandemic is one such example, as men's violence against women in all its forms has increased across our union. unfortunately, it is not surprising that when new media such as the internet are introduced, violence follows. the link between words and actions is clear. now, digital platforms are used for a lot of good, but there's another, darker side as well that we have to fight with full force. women and girls are controlled, harassed, humiliated and silenced through social media messages, revenge porn, hate, threats, grooming and so-called online stalking. it is estimated that seven out of ten women have been the victims of online harassment. the internet should not be a lawless macho country, but an inclusive and feminist place for all of us. the new bill to make hate crime an eu crime and the directive on men's violence against women, which we have been promised by the commission, must also include online violence.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. commissioner dalli, this is the police. being able to live a life free from violence, to be in control of your own body, to have the power to shape your society and your own life, to have your own job, simply, to be able to have your human rights - this should be a given for all eu citizens, but it is not the reality for all women and girls today. the progress towards an equal europe is embarrassingly slow, and we have learned that important progress can never be taken for granted. the eu will not be matched unless we step up the pace. it requires both political will and strong action. as a swedish social democrat, i am proud that sweden is once again at the top of the eu gender equality index. but in sweden too, we have work to do. but we are the world's first feminist government, and gender equality is a priority - it's leadership that actually gets results. the eu must put gender issues at the centre and live up to the goals of a union where everyone can participate and lead in our society on equal terms, where men's violence against women ends, where every woman and girl has the right to her own body and where women have their own jobs. gender equality is not just a women's issue. it is a question for everyone - for women and girls, for men and boys. it's about people's equal value and rights, but it's also about how we build our societies -- sustainable societies, healthy societies. and you know what, gender equality is a business. gender equality leads to growth. we social democrats will continue this fight every day here in the eu.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! electricity prices are at record highs and energy poverty is widespread. many families back home in sweden have had their electricity bills doubled. recently, a shower cost $5.50, or about $5. what is the european commission doing? well, then you want to expand emissions trading to fuel and home heating. here in strasbourg, far from the reality of ordinary people, they are of course applauding more money for the eu treasury. i don't think anyone here cares about people back home in sweden, who have to turn down the heat when it's 20 degrees outside. i don't suppose anyone here has experienced what minus 20 degrees means? £10,000 a year, this eu tax - because that's what it is, what you call emissions trading - can mean for ordinary people. what you want to replace them with is $400. if you don't think this is gonna get a reaction, just wait! and a call to the social democrats at home: say no!
madam president, i would like to thank you. competition and freedom are the engines of all successful economies - an insight that does not always have much support in the eu corridors. all too often, however, people want centralisation and planned economic solutions. in this case, however, it is different. the digital markets act is a genuine attempt to limit the enormous hegemony of the big tech giants. platforms like google, apple, facebook and amazon have, by their very nature, a monopoly on the market. there is no alternative for consumers. there's no real opportunity for the competition. this kind of dominance should simply be regulated. to maintain competitiveness and innovation, smes must be given significantly better opportunities to develop and operate. because it is through a free and open internet that the inventions of tomorrow are created. i am glad that we have managed to reach a compromise which is a step in the right direction, and i would like to thank everyone involved for the very good cooperation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! the european year for youth is a year of opportunities. one purpose is to give young people more and better opportunities for the future. i would like to highlight the opportunities it also offers us in the eu. by promoting dialogue with young people and encouraging them to be active citizens, we are actually creating opportunities in all directions. we need the visions, insights, ideas and knowledge of young people in our work, in our union. it should be taken for granted that young people have an influence when we make decisions for the future, but equally so for the here and now. it is now about young people and their present and future. we need to listen to young people and let them have a real impact. we need to work with young people so that we include them in all the decisions we make every day. in addition, we need to ensure that gender equality and equity are integrated into all issues affecting young people, not least in the green transition. it's a young people's show that you're taking the lead. i therefore have expectations for the european year and for it to be a year in which we really strengthen the influence of young people in the long term. this is an opportunity for the eu.
madam president, i would like to thank you. ukraine is a close neighbour, a trading partner, an important player in european security. the citizens of ukraine have courageously shown their desire to be part of european cooperation. at a time when the eyes of the world are focused on lukashenko's humanitarian disaster in belarus and on the country's border with the eu, putin is ready to take up arms, mobilize, threaten ukraine again. but let's settle this once and for all: putin is not the one who will dictate the future of ukraine. ukraine has the right to its full political and territorial integrity. we will not accept any russian threat, in word or deed. on this point, a united europe must be crystal clear. russia must accept the integrity of other countries and their political choices. threats and aggression must be met with sanctions. the eu must get rid of its dependence on russian gas, and nord stream 2 must be stopped.
mr president, i would like to thank you. you guys! humanitarian aid is saving lives. it helps alleviate poverty and uphold human dignity for people who have lost everything: in war, in natural disasters, in the wake of global climate change. in these situations, existing inequalities are reinforced, especially for women and girls. more than 70 percent of those suffering from chronic hunger are women and girls. humanitarian aid, however, is not just a temporary relief for the most affected. it is also a prerequisite for global development and prosperity. the lack of progress on the 2030 agenda is therefore a cause for concern. our humanitarian work and our global goals are closely intertwined. i don't think the need for help has ever been greater, and we need to act now. this is true in the eu, but it is also true that each member state in our union is taking its responsibility by beginning to respect the un target of 0.7% which we have jointly promised to allocate to aid. it is unacceptable that only six member states are now living up to that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. you guys! we have to turn every stone to get to the organized crime that is plaguing the lives of ordinary people. this includes the western balkans. we must combat the causes of crime, as well as the root of it, or the consequences risk becoming even worse. people today pay the ultimate price - their lives - when organized crime is allowed to operate. cooperation is the basis for development. the same applies to the fight against organised crime. today, the eu, its member states and the countries of the western balkans work together in areas of common interest. but this cooperation can and should be deepened in the fight against corruption and organised crime. the western balkans is a very important region for the eu and our shared responsibility for security and safety must continue to be enhanced. the eu's demands for reform in the framework of the association agreements are important tools. it is through continued knowledge sharing and dialogue that a safer future is secured. we must fight crime and its causes together and with all our might.
mr president, i would like to thank you. diamonds are found in troubled areas, but the system for classifying diamonds is focused on and traditionally based on four c's: clarity, colour, carat and cut, but the fifth and perhaps most important c, conflicts, is what the kimberley process is all about. the kimberley process is a brilliant example of how the collaboration of civil society, governments and industry can make a difference. removing blood diamonds, diamonds that fund rebel groups that threaten lives and human rights, has been extremely important. now the rules need to be updated. it is time to demand that diamonds be produced in a sustainable way, with respect for human rights, without child labour, throughout the chain and, of course, with respect for the local environment. the rules must then be followed, enforced and the results must be transparent. the eu has and will play a key role in putting an end to the blood diamonds.
mr president, i would like to thank you. you guys! the world bank warns that the number of people in extreme poverty is expected to increase for the first time in decades. covid-19 and rapidly escalating climate change are contributing to increased hunger and food insecurity around the world. the tokyo nutrition for growth conference has been important for how the international community can best work together towards food security. among other things, the conference has mobilized $27 billion to address the growing hunger and food crisis in the world. the common resources that humanity sits on are enough for every one of us on this planet, but so far we have a policy of distribution on the global level that makes food a privilege for a few, when food should really be a right for all. the tools for a world of equality, where not a single child has to lose their life because of hunger, we have already created. these include the 2030 agenda and the un target of 0.7% of gni for aid. we all know what can be done to save lives. let us now be courageous enough to do so.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the global spread of infection remains very serious and the vaccination rate is far from satisfactory. the availability of vaccines in some parts of the world is unacceptable. in africa, it's four percent. the eu must continue to take strong leadership characterised by coordinated action. when new variants of the virus emerge, we must act. we need to step up efforts to ensure access to vaccines for all, both within the union and globally. we know that vaccination is absolutely critical to stopping the pandemic. it is therefore important that all citizens are properly informed and take their full responsibility. the management of the pandemic must be characterised by solidarity and cooperation. it's the only way we can solve this together. now we must be patient, learn from the lessons learned and continue to work with full force to fight the pandemic.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. the commissioner has already said that he is not in favour of the proposal. at the request of certain groups, we are discussing an inclusive language today. but it's not because you want to highlight the importance of an inclusive language or the work for equality and gender equality and anti-discrimination, but just the opposite. we social democrats, however, refuse to accept the hopes that are now flourishing without any foundation. we stand by our core values for a europe that promotes equality and gender equality. language describes our world, but language can also affect our world. using language that is equal and inclusive is about communicating with all members of society on an equal footing. for us social democrats, it is obvious that all eu institutions must communicate equally and inclusively. it is about taking responsibility, countering stereotypes and prejudices, and ensuring that all citizens feel included and respected. it is a matter of course if we are to live up to our basic values. we do not accept backward forces that want to violate human rights and restrict the right to one's own body and oppose democracy, gender equality and equity. we're proud of the work that's being done. we will continue to fight for the right to express ourselves in a way that represents our values.
for the verts/ale group. madam president ! we have many problems in the eu. we are facing enormous challenges. you are choosing to make a mockery of the european union, when you should be speaking out about the growing inequality in the european union, about poverty in the european union, about racism and discrimination in the european union, about the constantly threatened equality of the sexes. you should spend your time shedding light on how right-wing populism systematically works against the rights and freedoms of women and girls. you should talk about the climate crisis, about how to save our planet and about the need for the eu to be at the forefront of change. you should talk about it. the fact that we are instead debating an internal working document, the purpose of which is to make all eu citizens feel included in the work of the eu, is under attack. you should be ashamed of yourselves. your way of misleading and abusing your mandate clearly shows why we need an eu commissioner who fights for the freedoms and rights of all, for women and for lgbt people.
madam president, the eu is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. no matter how much i would like to be the author of this sentence, i am not. but the people of our union are because it is how we have formulated the eu values enriched in article 2 in our treaty on the european union. i do not seriously understand the controversy of the commission guidelines that ensure that we fully live up to our own eu slogan: ‘united in diversity’. today’s debate is an echo from another time. lies do not become true just because they are repeated. no one wants to cancel christmas – that i can assure you – in here, but one thing is clear. the right and the far-right part of the political spectrum in here once again is showing their real face. it is scary for me to see how far we are from even starting our struggle to ensure all people in our union are seen as full citizens. no other quote than the one from george orwell’s novel animal farm can summarise today’s discussion: ‘all people are equal, but some are more equal than others’, and i am ashamed.
madam president, i would like to thank you. you guys! we are faced with a choice: a europe that stands up for the fundamental values of the eu or a europe that dreams of going back to a time to which we promised each other we would never go back. we stand here today in a union that has not seen war and misery for over 70 years, thanks to a handshake to protect ordinary people from history repeating itself. while european union cooperation embodies the struggle for freedom, equality and gender equality of generations before us, the ruling law and justice party in poland embodies the exact opposite. in today's poland, ruled by law and justice, freedom-seeking women and girls are silenced. among other things, they have denied women the right to their own bodies and have outlawed abortion in practice. now there are even proposals to monitor pregnant women who have had a miscarriage. these fascist phenomena have no place in our modern europe. the persecution of women in poland is abhorrent and it is frightening. in the shadow of this, the slovenian presidency chooses not to hold an article 7 hearing, but comes with a fussy state of play. the slovenian presidency has since taking office completely ignored its mission to represent ordinary people. the freedom of women and girls has been set aside. i'm not surprised, though. right-wing conservatives have always and will always limit our freedom when they get the chance. women's and girls' rights are human rights. in our union, women and girls are now dying because they are denied access to the most basic of things, such as the right to their own bodies.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in poland, a total ban on abortion has been in place for a year. large parts of the country are covered by so-called lgbtq free zones, and now the polish government is pushing to introduce a national registry where women, pregnant women, will be registered and monitored. it sounds like a scene from a dystopian tv series, but it's the reality for polish women. the polish authorities systematically work together with the catholic church and ultra-conservative organisations against women's rights and freedoms, and they enable oppression, discrimination and hatred against lgbtq people. here's the thing. the confidence in the polish government is exhausted and the eu has democratic tools that can be used to put a stop to their ideas. there's no excuse for not using them. the people of poland are as much eu citizens as you and i.
mr president, i would like to thank you. no one here has asked why alexander lukashenko is waging a hybrid war against the eu, why he is using migrants as weapons against us. is it because he's unscrupulous? i know. is it because human life means nothing to him? i'm sure you will. but he has also, of course, made a thorough analysis of the counterpart, the eu. in minsk, various scenarios have certainly been drawn up, based on the analysis of past eu actions, statements by the commission and by the left-liberal majority in the european parliament. lukashenko has seen commissioner ylva johansson, for example, condemn the greek government for trying to defend itself against the turkish hybrid war against the country by not accepting asylum applications. she saw the commissioners then go to ankara to agree on billions more of european taxpayers' money for erdoğan. you have seen the eu's priorities, how the eu would rather spend tens of millions on clowns without borders performing for newly arrived afghans and syrians in sweden than on border barriers at the external border. you have seen how the eu calls illegal migration irregular, and you have drawn your conclusions. it is time for a complete overhaul of european migration policy. it is time to support poland wholeheartedly and to say a clear no to illegal immigration.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the humanitarian disaster at the border is a deliberate move. lukashenko wants to create a crisis for the eu and divert the world's attention from the oppression he is subjecting the belarusian people to. yesterday, the opposition leader sergei tikhanovsky was sentenced to 18 years in prison. he was arrested last year for trying to prevent him from running for president. he is now one of the 929 people currently imprisoned by the regime in belarus for speaking their mind. to all of you 929s, i want to say: we see and we know what's happening. there are an infinite number of us who are with you. it's not sergei tikhanovsky, not 20-year-old artsyom, not the mother of small children palina, not the seriously ill andrei, who should be behind bars. it is lukashenka and his minions who should be sanctioned, prosecuted and convicted for the crimes they commit.
madam president, i would like to thank you. alexei navalny was awarded this year's sakharov prize. he is a very worthy winner, who has paid a high personal price for his courageous struggle to expose corruption and abuse of power in russia. the freedom struggle almost cost him his life. he was the victim of an assassination attempt and is still in prison. the sakharov prize, the european parliament's prize for freedom of expression, is one of the finest awards that can be given. of course, it irks putin that it has gone to a person who both challenged and exposed him. however, the prize is not just for navalny, but it is a prize for all those who speak out, individually or collectively, in civil society with organizations like memorial that putin is so afraid of. the eu can never bow to putin's threats. aggression will be met with sanctions, reduced gas supplies and the shutdown of nord stream 2. russia is not the same as putin. europe stands with navalny and all those who fight for a democratic russia.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the pandemic has shown that trade and cooperation are the most important tools for managing crises. this is not just the coronavirus crisis, it's the climate crisis. across the eu, we see scientists, entrepreneurs and business people developing new solutions to reduce emissions and contribute to the circular economy. here we politicians must be better at giving carrots to boost the green re-launch of europe's economy. we need to get rid of tariffs on climate-smart goods. we need to remove trade barriers on sustainable services like repairs and rental. we must remove bureaucracy and ban the trade in recycled materials. i mean, having tariffs on electric cars is just incredibly weird in this day and age. our trade policy is also key to achieving a green and sustainable circular economy, and not just by making it more expensive to emit, but also by giving more carrots to entrepreneurs.
