the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not we also wish you a very happy new year. my question is: are you going back to the resolution on haiti? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not there have been some very heated debates. we have seen that there are indeed very different opinions on this finding of a court of justice which is not the court of justice of the european union. we should not now, on this very serious subject, fall back into a debate which divides us rather than unites us. we should leave it at that. we have had different opinions, we have different opinions, and therefore we should not go back to drafting a new resolution.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not it is not intended that we should be drafting a resolution now. it's good that we're having this discussion, but without a resolution. i also realise that we should not be writing such a resolution until after such a visit, if we are going to do so at all. but the debate on this should take place now, so that the colleagues who are visiting the country can also get a glimpse of the mood in this house.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in most member states of the european union there is also a devastating earthquake, but one that is not visible on the surface, namely the continuing shaking of the financial markets. there are now new reports that eu funds were also in circulation in a bank in carinthia that went bankrupt or was taken over by the state. i am hereby calling for investigations by olaf, which may have the chance to act a little more independently under the new presidency than before. in this context, i would also like to draw attention to a study by the corporate europe observatory on the captive commission, that is to say, this persistent central problem, which is being tackled by groups of experts who should be preparing to protect us from precisely such earthquakes, where large industry is far over-represented and small and mediumsized enterprises or even consumer associations and trade unions have almost no say. usually the ratio is 80 to 20. this is something that must change.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. recent events in particular have made it clear that the approach to civil liberties in iran is clearly flawed from a european perspective. the death sentence handed down to the recently convicted protesters is a sign of the different ways in which fundamental rights and their observance are handled in the country in question. it is also important to stress that the eu's foreign policy cannot be judged unilaterally, because economically and geostrategically important partners - such as china or saudi arabia - are often turned a blind eye to, even though they also differ significantly from our european conceptions of democracy and the rule of law. as a member of the iranian delegation, i am therefore particularly concerned that the postponed visit to iran be resumed as soon as possible, in order to improve bilateral communication with the eu and thus also contribute to the dialogue aimed at de-escalating the dramatic situation in iran.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. although the conflict in iran often appears as a power struggle between the old and the new establishment, it is clear that this very closed social system has clear cracks. the situation in iran is certainly a testament to the importance of democracy, namely that every citizen can express his political will. the political authorities in iran are now responding to this legitimate social will with state repression, which goes as far as the death penalty. these attacks on civilians must stop immediately! because state repression is certainly not going to stop this social will. quite the opposite. the long history of iran proves this. as regards the short-term visit of the european parliament delegation to tehran, which was cancelled by the iranian government, i would just like to say briefly that this visit was very important at that time, in order to have talks and dialogues with all those involved, including, of course, and in particular, civil society and civil society on the ground.
mr president, i think it is clear to all of us here that the iranian regime is a dictatorial and criminal regime. the question is: how to deal with it? i would like to state very clearly my support for the delegation that would have gone to iran from this parliament. the delegation would have met, for one whole day, members of the opposition and dissidents. it would have strengthened them. they wanted that. so i really feel very sorry that this delegation visit could not take place. i have one very concrete question to you, baroness ashton. several members here have talked about sanctions. from the experience i have as a member of the national parliament and talking with many people for a long time, i would really be in favour of smart sanctions – targeted, for example, at specific members of the revolutionary guard, putting them on a veto list for visits, or at other specific persons. i am very much against imposing sanctions on the whole country as that would probably strengthen the government, because then poverty would increase – they would not have access, for example, to petrol – and that would help to support the regime instead of weakening it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to point out in this connection, as always, that in europe we only know about individual guilt and reject general suspicions on principle. i am sure that mrs ashton from the united kingdom will understand that in such situations the guilty ones should perhaps be punished with a blockade, but not a whole people who have been put in such a situation more or less innocently. we should be looking for conversations. my question is: do you see any potential interlocutors in iran with whom you can get in touch and with whom you can also have a serious, objective and politically correct discussion?
i have to say, madam president, yemen is known to be a hotbed of islamic extremism, a very poor country with ineffective security, a high level of weapons, a country shaken by conflict and suffering from acute water shortages. it is a country where the government is said not to have complete control even of the capital. so yemen has now come under the spotlight of counter-terrorism, and thus once again a country where the presence of radical islamists is unfortunately the result of past mistakes in us policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would be naive to equate terrorism with poverty, as it would be irresponsible to let ourselves be pulled over by american cars and blindly believe that only an increase in military aid could solve yemen's problems. the dictatorial president, who is receiving millions from western military aid, has in the past repeatedly used islamists to silence opponents of the regime. of course, we cannot stand by and watch this country mutate from a retreat for god's warriors to a base of operations and training. and of course, there has to be a discussion about how to improve development aid, if only to deprive some of the jihadist recruits of ground. the eu must not be forced into the role of us paymaster, but must instead play an impartial mediator role to encourage dialogue and pave the way for a long-term political solution.
madam president, i would like to thank mrs ashton. my question concerns the forms of cooperation which you think we should develop with the european union in yemen, for example in the field of small and mediumsized enterprises or perhaps also in the field of energy and water supply, because communication and the building of links could play a special role in the future. what programs would you prioritize here?
madam president, i would like to thank mrs ashton. my question relates to the memorandum of understanding signed in the energy sector: do you think it is possible to achieve further development here together with mr oettinger or mr de gucht? i believe that economic development in iraq could bring more stability. if we improved relations in the energy sector, on the one hand by increasing the supply of european equipment to make better use of the energy resources there and on the other by buying energy from there as compensation, it would be a win-win situation for both sides. it would be very useful to have an initiative in this area in the next few weeks.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i will say this at the outset: i do not think that paragraph 31 of the second review proposal makes any sense. i too am against the fact that the various readmission agreements for migrants create a kind of relay race in which the victims are passed from one country to another. there is certainly a need to regulate such chain agreements better at international level. more importantly, however, it seems to me that such a situation will not arise in the first place. i therefore think that the idea of facilitating the circular visa system for people from acp countries is the wrong way to go. let us therefore support self-help, let us encourage self-sufficiency, let us turn beggars into self-respecting producers! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when you think of the caribbean, you have two images in mind: the current catastrophe in haiti and, if you have been dealing with this parliament for many years, the bathing of eu parliamentarians at acp-eu meetings. after this long debate, in which important things were said, perhaps we could also give a very concrete signal and, in view of the situation in haiti, forego the next one or two opulent meetings of the acp-eu in these very areas and actually make the net proceeds of these meetings go to the victims. it's just a small drop on the hot stone, but it would have symbolic value. and it would show that we are serious about the many beautiful speeches that are being made here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is essential that we address the issue of human trafficking here today because it is a subject that is still taboo and because, unfortunately, in our very developed society, women are very often the victims of this trafficking. i am thinking in particular of the area of prostitution, but also of children. we don't want to see that very often. for a successful action against this trafficking in human beings, we need education and awareness in advance, and we will also need money later. we should take this into account from the outset, because the aim cannot only be to apprehend the perpetrators and bring them to justice, but we must also try to ensure that victim protection is implemented in such a way that victims do not become victims again, and that we also have the financial means to be able to re-socialise them. that we take away the trauma that children have experienced and that we integrate women first into our work world, into a legal work world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. begging, prostitution, theft, burglary - these and similar evil activities are forced upon people - especially women and children - by human traffickers and gangs. it is a crime that is difficult to monitor and has a high rate of obscurity. i would also like to point out that my home country, austria, is particularly affected by this as a popular transit country and also as a destination country. we must therefore take note of the fact that the vast majority of the trafficking gangs are operating from eastern and south-eastern europe towards central europe, that the victims are not only recruited in third countries but also come from the member states themselves. the fact is that we are also seeing an increase in these incidents and our control of our external border is not working. in view of this development and the verifiable fact that buses are often used for travel a tourism of crime , the question arises whether it would not be sensible, in addition to the preparation of reports by europol, frontex, etc., to reintroduce border controls in the border regions concerned in these circumstances and, if necessary, suspend schengen temporarily.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! i think mr langen has not been listening carefully, otherwise he would have heard that a clear strategy for modernisation and a social pact have been mentioned here. it is no wonder that the social pact does not sound familiar to you, because it is an important contribution to this. and prime minister zapatero has spoken very well of unemployment, including unemployment in his own country. we are concerned about unemployment as a whole. but it is not he who is responsible for this, but those who have pushed for maximum deregulation in recent years. that's the responsibility of those in your ranks who helped cause this. the social pact is particularly necessary now because we know - and you are right on this point, but only partially - that we must consolidate the budgets. but we also know that this cannot be done at the expense of the socially weak. because there are already many - read today's newspapers - who are, for example, falling out of the unemployment insurance. this is not just an individual, fatal fate, but something that affects economic growth, because we know very well that the lower social classes have corresponding consumption tendencies, and economic development, economic growth is also at risk because we have too little consumer spending. and if we do not protect the socially weak through a social pact, it is not only a question of humanity that we are failing to do so, but also a question of economic development that we would be failing to do so. that is why this social pact is so important. mr president, the social pact is a matter of great importance to us.
mr president, i hope that you, mr president of the spanish government, will really have the courage and the ability to put your very ambitious programme into practice and to implement it. especially the programmes against violence against women. i have two questions. one, relating to foreign policy. you have said that europe must also strive to defend european interests in foreign policy. i ask you: what are the european interests? are they the interests of the big transnational companies, which want to make profits without respecting social or ecological agreements? or are they the interests which are enshrined in european values, in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, such as human rights, democratisation, the strengthening of civil society and minorities? what interests are you referring to? and one more question. you have not said a word about the issue of migration, which is so important in europe. we need a program... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. it is strange that the spanish presidency of the council is calling for the fight against the economic crisis and wants to make the implementation of economic policy objectives binding. this is hardly credible in a country where the unemployment rate is almost twice the european average of 20%. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. such a violation of the principle of subsidiarity must be rejected in the strongest possible terms. the eu must remain a union of diversity, of nation states, and it owes that to its citizens. it is also indebted to its citizens to find clear words in the negotiations with turkey. the spanish presidency is turning a blind eye to the reality that turkey is neither geographically nor intellectually and culturally part of europe, that ethnic and religious minorities in the small asian country continue to be discriminated against and that ankara stubbornly refuses to recognise eu member cyprus. to say that the decades-long conflict will soon bring "positive results" is nothing more than wishful thinking. the eu could not cope with turkish accession financially alone, and the turkish mass influx and the exploding parallel societies would provide the eu with the rest. it is high time that the accession negotiations with ankara were immediately suspended and that a privileged partnership was sought.
in writing. - i voted for mr pierre-yves monette in the election of the ombudsman. he was the only one who took the trouble to introduce himself to the non-attached members of the european parliament and to answer their questions.
in writing. the regional authorities of madeira and the azores have requested the temporary suspension of the common customs tariff duties in order to strengthen the competitiveness of local operators and thus stabilise the employment situation in these outermost regions of the community. in order to ensure that the imported goods raw materials, parts or finished products do not distort competition, they are subject to controls to ensure that they are used by local enterprises on the islands for a period of at least two years before they can be sold duty-free to enterprises located in other parts of the union. how is this to be put into practice? i have not voted because i cannot be persuaded to do so.
in writing. - the proposal by the legal affairs committee of the european parliament to propose ms ana palacio vallelersundi as a member of the committee set up under article 255 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union would be welcomed in principle. but from an institutional point of view, it is not clear why a separate panel of seven people should make binding proposals to national governments. that is why i voted against the proposal.
in writing. - in today's vote on the appointment of ana palacio vallelersundi as a member of the selection board for the judges and advocates-general of the court of justice and the general court, i voted against her, as i expect the member appointed by the european parliament to examine the social aptitude and competence of candidates, in addition to their excellent legal knowledge. i do not trust mrs palacio, because i am afraid that in judging the judges and advocates general she does not take into account the existence of social values and human knowledge. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the establishment of a european union-wide judicial system, and the establishment of a european union-wide judicial system.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the council has also adopted a number of measures in recent years under the guise of combating terrorism. but many of these measures are out of proportion to the real threat of terrorism. on the contrary, they led to unacceptable restrictions on civil liberties. the systematic and unbiased exchange of data under the swift agreement is of course no exception. even the german federal criminal police office, which is not actually known as the data protection group, had to admit this disproportion. we must put an end to these permanent restrictions on civil rights and we must not agree to the interim agreement either! i would like to make it quite clear once again about the council's procedure: the united states checked and stored the data of swift users without any restrictions. but the council did not sanction this practice, it legalized it! i would also ask the council to forward all relevant information to the european parliament.
in writing. the so-called swift agreement (society for worldwide interbank financial telecommunication) governs the transfer of data from the global banking network. every day, 8,000 financial institutions from 200 countries communicate with each other through the company's lines, based in belgium and data centers in the netherlands and the united states. the commission has stated that the queries may only be international transfers and that the purpose is strictly limited to intelligence-gathering terrorist investigations. however, both senior politicians and criminal experts doubt that the data in the us would be used only to combat terrorist activities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not misused. as european parliamentarians, we must therefore under no circumstances allow the entry into force of the agreement and the associated transfer of data to the usa, and certainly not without the consent of the european parliament! a provisional entry into force until the european parliament's debate in february would be a massive breach of the basic democratic principle!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we can learn anything from copenhagen, it is a sense of reality. i can still remember the debate before copenhagen in this house. all my colleagues were glowing with optimism. but it's no use. it is an international conference with its own rules, and goodwill alone can do little. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what must be the biggest disappointment for us europeans is that we - the eu - were not present when this final document was drawn up. this has to make us think, because we always say that we are the ones who want to be the global leader in the fight against climate change. why is that? for one thing, it is probably because we are not the biggest emitters, with our 14% co2 emissions. the us and china together have almost half. but we in europe do not speak with one voice. the last environment council showed very well how different the views are. some countries see the problem quite differently from the majority in this house, for example. another reason is that we europeans are not as good as we always claim to be. if we subtract these cdms, these joint implementation measures, and these other measures, and only take into account our own measures to reduce co2 emissions, we see that our balance sheet is not as good as we always pretend. thirdly, it must be said that other countries and other regions of the world have a different approach to this problem. our ultimate goal is a legally binding agreement. but china and the united states are taking a different approach. we should consider whether we should not be more flexible in our negotiations, because the common fight against climate change is important, but the methods that lead to it can be quite different.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the only concrete outcome of the copenhagen climate summit was to limit global warming to two degrees celsius. the measures needed to achieve this have, however, been left in the dark. this minimal compromise is disappointing to us, especially since it is up to each individual state to accept or not to accept the agreements on climate protection targets. we're really running out of time. it's up to us to decide what happens next. we should promote sustainable and climate-friendly development that allows us to use the earth's resources fairly, for ourselves and for our future generations. the eu and its member states should be leading the world in green technologies, then we would have at least made a start!
minister! is sufficient consideration given to the information and views of serbia in all the initiatives taken by the council for kosovo? apart from the territorial issue concerning kosovo, serbia is a central state in the integration of the western balkans into the eu, which should be included in all steps.
minister! the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the number of people who are unemployed. it has not been long since it became clear that emissions trading was being used for profit and abuse. to what extent has the allegation been investigated and to what extent are changes planned?
acting president of the council. - these two points which have been put to me by the honourable member and the honourable member clearly require a scientific opinion, so to speak, on the matter. i believe that in this respect there are groups and initiatives in the european union which are the appropriate venue for working on these suggestions or these observations which you have put forward. for example, the pilot programme to combat neurodegenerative diseases and in particular alzheimer's disease, on which the commission made a proposal for a council recommendation, is currently under way. i would also like to point out that the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of diseases, the establishment of a european centre for disease prevention and control, the establishment of a european centre for disease prevention and control, and the establishment of a european centre for disease prevention and control. i think that's where this matter should be dealt with. so far, this high level group is sharing a vision and a strategic research agenda. twenty-four countries are taking part in it and their management structures are being set up and a work plan is being decided. the next update of this group will be presented during this six-month period of the spanish presidency and i believe that from there onwards we will be able to deal with questions such as those which you have raised in a much more concrete, more direct and more immediate way. i think that's the place and the headquarters. that's what it's for. that is why this high-level group was set up, in this case, to work and prepare for future decisions.
acting president of the council. - i have to refer to the conference on corporate social responsibility held in stockholm on 10 and 11 november 2009. the swedish presidency, which organised the conference, and the then future - now current - spanish presidency came to the conclusion that the european union should take a global lead in this respect, should serve as an example for the important subject that mr désir raises in this question: the social responsibility of companies in creating markets, fighting corruption, protecting the environment, defending human dignity and human rights at the workplace, since, moreover, the european union is the largest economy in the world and the largest contributor to development cooperation. europe is home to many multinational companies. it's a very appropriate place for this leadership to be adopted. social responsibility essentially has three components, the so-called protect, respect, remedy. the state must protect, and this means legislation, development standards in the field of human rights violations, especially by companies. there is a corporate responsibility to respect those human rights and there is a responsibility of all parties involved to ensure access to adequate remedies, in order to protect and enhance those human rights. i would like to say that we now have another instrument, the charter of fundamental rights of european citizens, which is legally binding and which for the first time, even at european level, also provides for such protection in relation to the issues to which the idea of social responsibility refers. all those concerned must participate. we must continue to engage in dialogue with non-member states, civil society, trade unions and businesses, including small and mediumsized enterprises, in order to implement this practice, this trilogy of protecting, respecting and repairing that we have been talking about. and the spanish presidency will continue to promote it, in particular by organizing a conference in palma de mallorca on 25 and 26 march to discuss the question of the institutionalization of the social responsibility of enterprises, from the point of view of its relationship with the social dialogue. the conference will consider the possibility of including this framework in the list of instruments which the european union and its states will be able to use to carry out their activities, including in the context of a question which was referred to this morning in the presentation of the programme of the spanish presidency, which is the european union 2020 strategy. there too, this objective of social responsibility must be present.
acting president of the council. - i believe that the european union must facilitate best practice across europe and that this should lead to legislative proposals that can improve the situation. it must be borne in mind that the issue of social responsibility has a legally binding part which is primarily concerned with respect for human rights. it also has a voluntary part, of voluntary internships. it is therefore important that forums be set up at european level, beyond those, to deal with these matters. some of them are already in operation. and indeed, for example, the high level group of member states meets every six months to share experiences in relation to this social responsibility. i also believe that, in the context of the economic crisis, it is even more important to work in this direction and to work in the direction of competitiveness, environmental protection, linking with it and social inclusion. in one year, precisely, that is 2010, the year against poverty and social exclusion. i think that this is the starting point and that it is there, in something which is still to some extent a pioneer, that these forums should be forged, where all those concerned should participate in a dialogue from which further measures must emerge. but i think we must approach this stage of dialogue, which is absolutely fundamental, with action which has so far been practically unheard of between us.
minister! the question you have raised has been a matter of concern to us for a very long time. much of what was said could have been heard 10, 15 years ago. so i have some questions: do you agree with me that in order to enforce and make visible the assumption of corporate social responsibility, incentives, but also sanctions, would be necessary? can you imagine the european union setting up a system of naming and shaming? and given how often labels are now being used, can you imagine that there is a clear indication on the products of companies whether they are complying with these basic rules of corporate social responsibility or whether they are violating them? we are used to so many other labels, why don't we do that in the social sphere?
acting president of the council. - i agree with the first point, in that i believe that the european union's dialogue with non-member states, civil society, trade unions, businesses and all those concerned is at the heart of what i have called it, and the participation of those people to whom you refer, mr president, is absolutely essential. i think that we are at the moment of reflecting on this and also on what you have pointed out, but it seems to me that, within a global, comprehensive approach, on a question that, probably for the first time, or almost for the first time, will be tackled decisively through this high-level group to which i have referred and through this conference which will be held in march. that is where i think the corresponding reflections should take place and the best way to achieve those objectives we are seeking. sometimes it is better to go the way of incentive, sometimes it is better to go the way of punishment. the best way to punish is not always the best way. i think that requires an integrated study, because i think that requires an integrated approach and a series of measures, not individualised in succession, but an integrated approach to the whole problem, to the question it raises, which is a great opportunity, social responsibility.
acting president of the council. - mr martin, i think that the european union is facing - in this case, we certainly needed a serious crisis to be triggered - a real supervision of the financial system at european level, clearly. it is doing so through two essential dimensions, which are provided for in the financial supervision directives, those six directives which the commission put forward last year and which, at this stage, will require the agreement of the council and this european parliament. we in the spanish presidency hope that this agreement will be reached. so our great interlocutor is going to be this house. on the one hand, what is called macroprudential supervision, through the so-called european systemic risk board, which seeks to prevent major crises, ensure financial stability and reduce disruptions to the financial system. and then there is the so-called microprudential supervision, which i think is what mr martin is essentially referring to in his question. they are the so-called three european authorities on banking, insurance and the stock market. this supervision aims to go deeper into supervision, reduce redundancy, and reduce disruption in individual financial institutions and thus protect the clients of these institutions. the council, as i said, has already definitively adopted a common position on this. first, at the council last october, we gave the political yes, the political confidence, to this macro-supervision and, in december, to micro-supervision and the whole legislative package. this is something, as i said, which is subject to codecision and therefore to what parliament agrees with the council. these three committees should be functioning. we would like the directives to be adopted, if possible, in the first half of the spanish presidency, but in any case to be in operation by the end of 2010. this is the aim of the council. we therefore look forward to fruitful cooperation with the european parliament so that we can take this important step forward, which i believe is clearly historic and which also corresponds to the orientations that have emerged beyond europe, the g20 - the united states is making similar regulation - and we believe that this is one of the challenges we have ahead of us to prevent a crisis like this from happening again, which had its origin in the financial system, in the lack of regulation of the financial system and in the irresponsibility, as one member has said before, of some of the leaders of that financial system.
i thank you for your comments, mr minister. you've reached the macro domain with the security board. you are certainly aware that there is already very intense criticism, on the one hand, of the size of this board, because it is again composed according to a typical european system of proportions. do you, like many others, see the danger that efficient work is not possible? the second problem with this safety board is the lack of independence. can you imagine going a little further under the spanish presidency and trying to ensure more independence and perhaps improving the size of the commission accordingly, because it is hardly possible to do any meaningful work on this basis?
i have to say, madam president, the turkish constitutional court's ruling banning the pro-kurdish party as unconstitutional is a clear sign that turkish domestic politics is not comparable to our european understanding of democracy. this clearly contradicts the very dark coloured status reports of the ahtisaari commission. although we have traditionally had an enlightened, european-oriented educated citizenship in istanbul, this fact and the certainly great events around the cultural capital istanbul in 2010 are unfortunately not representative of the whole country. we should therefore face up to the reality: banning minority parties as unconstitutional is not in keeping with european values. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. therefore, stop the negotiations! and let us also stop these pre-entry payments, because those who want to pay for value proposals will certainly not be convinced by this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. a development strategy for the danube is very welcome and very important. it is also a very demanding task, which is not comparable to anything we have done in regional development. because the danube is not just a waterway, it's not a road. the danube is a natural gem. i know that many of you do not like to hear this, but in its existence as a natural gem it is also a hopeful area for sustainable and modern tourism, which can and could be developed positively with small and mediumsized enterprises, especially in the danube delta, but also along the attractive river routes. the danube has a very special river characteristic - this must be clear - which is particularly sensitive to human intervention. this was already the case with the gabčíkovo power plant project, whose wounds have not yet healed, but where only through the massive involvement of local people and citizens was it possible to prevent more serious damage by continuing the construction of this power plant chain. this has led to a drop in groundwater levels with unpredictable consequences for agriculture. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. this is something to be taken into account. this teaches us an important lesson: the danube - every river - is a lifeline that must be protected and accompanied in its life and where it must be done with particular sustainability. this does not mean that we should drive our excavator into natural areas without thinking, but simply that we should take the river seriously, use it for navigation, but adapt the ships to the river and not the river to the ships. you don't buy the furniture first and then build a house around it if you want to do a big job. we must do the same for the danube. here, sustainability and care for the natural environment are paramount. let us not repeat the mistakes of the past.
i have to say, madam president, like my predecessor, mr theurer, i come from the european watershed. we are actually rhinelands, but we are very interested in the danube, even though it flows in a direction that has very little to do with our way of life. i would like to make a point here that you should not only understand the danube strategy as many speakers have already outlined it, but also as an opportunity for cultural integration. young people in particular can understand, across and with the danube, how to overcome misunderstood nationalism, how to grasp and understand this uncanny cultural wealth - whether it be nobel prize winners in literature or the well-known avant-garde music events from the danube to the delta - in a completely different way. my request is that - one may wish for something at this early stage - that you include this in the strategy, that the whole thing, especially for young people, also acquires a cultural identity and cohesion.
i have to say, madam president, the danube strategy is one of the most important projects of european regional policy at the moment, since the danube has always been a lifeline between the various countries of central and eastern europe, providing the historical basis for economic cooperation and cultural exchanges. i am thinking here of the positive results of the old austro-hungarian monarchy. what are we waiting for? we expect a lot from this project: the expansion of environmentally friendly mobility, away from the road to the ship, the transfer of goods to the railway, the modernisation and bundling of industrial structures where it makes sense, cooperation on environmental issues and tourism - ecotourism in particular will be in demand - and of course the focus on research and development. and many other things. i would also like to see an efficient use of resources, both financial and human. the experience and knowledge of the people in this region must be brought together and pooled. i expect an increase in the quality of life and a lot of good and inflammatory ideas.
i have to say, madam president, the danube strategy could be a wonderful example of a regional strategy which uses the resources of a geographically and culturally connected area in a coordinated way to solve problems and, above all, to break down barriers in the mind. two areas of particular concern to me are: the first is to ensure that the labour market is not only open but also well regulated and cooperative. brain drain and commuting are commonplace in the danube region, the labour market is under pressure and from 2011 the danube region will be more or less an integrated labour market. we need coordinated compensation mechanisms. the second concern, which is particularly important in this context, is that it is an opportunity for research cooperation and innovation. i am thinking in particular of inland waterway transport, which could very well cope with an ecological technological boost.
i have to say, madam president, i believe that the general aim of politics is to create the conditions for achieving the highest possible quality of life. i would also like to see the european strategy for the danube region in this context. the danube is a lifeline, we heard today, the danube region is a habitat. the danube should and must be a transport route, it is a source of energy - we have a large number of power stations - the danube is a nature reserve, it must be protected in terms of biodiversity, but it is also a protected area for leisure and tourism. the danube is a source of life, a source of life for agriculture, for fishing, but also, as mrs regner has just said, for future jobs. the danube is also a source of danger, if i remember the floods of recent years. in order to further develop the quality of life for all people living in the danube region, we need a joint, sustainable and above all environmentally friendly development of the entire danube region as a key european region of the 21st century. the aim must be to make the available resources for territorial cooperation even more efficient and to use them more effectively.
in writing. throughout history, the danube has played a central role in europe. the participating nation states were in active exchange long before the founding of the european union. i therefore think it is an important step to bring these countries even closer together now, also within the framework of regional policy, with the danube strategy. the points of contact are varied. they are, of course, in the economy, but also in culture, environmental policy, energy security and neighbourhood policy. macro-regions are ideal tools for dealing with cross-border challenges. a thorough and long-term planning and preparation is essential to ensure the long-term success of the danube macro-region. the european added value of a macro-region will be demonstrated, particularly in the areas of biodiversity conservation and sustainable energy production. the baltic sea strategy, which is already a european success story, is a good model for successful cooperation. as an austrian, a regional politician and rapporteur for numerous eu water-related legislation, i strongly support this initiative and hope that the danube strategy will open up new dimensions to the territorial cohesion of the danube countries.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. trade relations between the eu and tunisia are close and complex. tunisia, which receives some 80 million euros in financial assistance annually, is considered a model of successful development policy. the country has established itself as a leading emerging country in the maghreb, being the first mediterranean country to establish a free trade area with the eu, and is benefiting from this with solid economic growth. the tunisian republic should therefore play a constructive role in the consideration of the euro-mediterranean roadmap for trade beyond 2010 and in cooperation with the maghreb countries. it would seem that all this would be in vain if there were not a paragraph linking european aid under partnership agreements to the respect of human rights. and here we have the contradiction that the money that is supposed to stimulate the tunisian economy is also used to finance and support a dictatorial, anti-democratic apparatus. this is a problem we have in general with our development and association aid. the eu cannot be seen to be indirectly promoting human rights violations, either in tunisia or in the congo, and certainly not in the applicant country of turkey.
in writing. − the danube strategy is a useful model for coordinating eu action in this cohesive area. in addition to issues relating to the river itself, such as the improvement of water quality and the ecological situation, the programme to be drawn up by the commission could also have synergy effects in economic and administrative terms. the report before us has made some good suggestions on this, which is why i voted in favour of it.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to express my support for this. it's important that we talk about the issue and address the fundamental issues, without partisan political hiccups about who's to blame or who's not to blame. i have two requests: one would be that the epp would agree to include the aspect of social impact in the title, so that we make it clear that we are talking about the crisis in these countries and its social impact. the second request: we want to talk to the commission, but with the commissioners who will be responsible in the future. but since the new commission is not yet in office, we should ask the president of the commission to come either himself or to send someone who also has responsibilities in the new commission, such as mr almunia or mr rehn. it would be useful to have a partner in this difficult and important debate who would also have the same responsibilities in the commission later on.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we'll be discussing the body scanner in two days. the point is that we should be concerned about airport security in general and what is happening here in the european union. the european union is constantly being led - especially by alleged or sometimes real terrorist threats - to adopt legislation which does not improve the security situation at airports, but which makes the measures more and more cumbersome and bizarre. but if one considers that the situation at railway stations is not fundamentally different from that at airports, for example, and that there are no security measures at railway stations - at least as regards intra-european or national transport - one might wonder whether this is not an exaggeration. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised by excessive bureaucracy and increased security.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need a revolution of democracy. as a young writer and journalist, i paid 62% of my taxes out of conviction, because i was convinced at the time and had the impression that we were being well managed. since i have been a member of the european parliament, i have seen what has actually happened to these - at that time millions of shillings a year - people. what bothers me about this debate about promoting responsible taxation is that we don't look at the spending side, that we're always talking about the evil tax evader! at that time, when the tax rate was 62%, my tax adviser was christoph matznetter, who later became austria's minister of finance. he said, "you're from vorarlberg, go to liechtenstein, go to switzerland". i didn't do it, but a lot of other people did. but if you approach the matter with the sober, rational eye of a man who has not been a civil servant, who has not been a burden on any social system, who has not been active in any public sector - as the majority of members of parliament have been - and in the light of the concrete experience you have here, you say: for god's sake, how can i save my money, which i have often earned very honestly, from this waste? that is why i propose that we start where we can prove that sound management requires adequate funds, namely with ourselves. why do we need 200 new jobs? why are you taking the sponsored skiing lessons this week? what's the point? if you really want to be serious about tackling tax havens and collecting tax debts and bringing citizens into the european union, then we have to start with ourselves and show that the very institutions we represent are responsible for the use of tax money. otherwise it's just going to be these tax evasions, and you can't even really say bad things about people.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we in the european union should be thinking about how we can continue to guarantee the single market, especially with the four freedoms. the problem of double taxation is of course also a central one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively and that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. the commission should make a proposal on how to deal with double taxation and how to make it possible for these companies to be taxed simply and transparently, because in the end the creditworthiness of a company is the basis for whether it can survive on the market accordingly and whether it remains liquid. i would also like to see a one-stop shop for small and mediumsized enterprises, so that they have a concrete point of contact, so that the tax compensation payments can be made in a similarly fast, efficient and transparent manner.
i have to say, madam president, i am an austrian and i am speaking because european law has been broken, because the case is topical and therefore concerns us all. the opel antwerp case is not - as opel management has always publicly portrayed - primarily about a plant closure to reduce overcapacity because fewer cars are sold, but about a relocation of the plant to south korea, about breach of contract by opel-vauxhall boss reilly, about the violation of workers' rights, of workers' rights to information and consultation and of their representatives. and finally, it is about picking raisins, which is about raising or trying to raise 2.7 billion in public funds. the company's ceo, reilly, first negotiated the delta framework agreement with the european works councils and the trade unions, only to break it off. the car models that were to be produced in antwerp are now expected to be built in south korea. and european workers are supposed to pay for this by giving up their wages and salaries. another point which is very disturbing to me is the management overhead, which was also to be cut by 30%, and which was eventually increased by mr reilly from the seven legally required to 21. that means that german codecision rights have been breached. i therefore ask the commission, not only to take account of the economic aspects of the assessment of state aid, as you mentioned at the outset, mr špidla, but above all to respect the rights of information, consultation and participation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. more women have entered the labour market. however, more jobs do not always mean more quality jobs. women are very strong in the group of parttime workers and in jobs particularly affected by the current crisis. nearly 60% of all university graduates are women. but there are barriers for women that effectively prevent them from reaching their full potential. this is why it is necessary to set certain binding minimum standards: minimum eu-wide rules on parental leave, improvement of childcare provision, improved care provision. this could break down some gender stereotypes and finally meet the demand for real equality between the sexes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am sure that everything has been said in this very interesting discussion on this subject. i can't imagine adding another aspect to this. but i would like to make one final point: it must be a goal for all of us that women do not have to see themselves in a position to have to choose again and again between a career on the one hand and a family on the other. the conditions must be created. it should be possible to take all the measures necessary in the near future to enable women to fulfil their role as mothers as well as their professional role. the fact is that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it should be possible, however, to make up for lost working life time quickly after re-entry. i believe that this is a solution that we should and must pursue, especially in difficult economic times. if we succeed in this - and we in the european parliament can make a very important contribution to this - we will have a modern europe of genuine equality of opportunity. we are all aware that this is only possible if there is consistent equality between men and women.
the commission has already done so. i would like to thank mr tarabella very much. more than 40 figures make it clear that the issue of equality and equal rights for women is simply not something that can be dealt with in less than an hour. there's a lot of discussion to be had. i can only concentrate on two points today. one is paragraph 8, which criticises the fact that the issue of gender mainstreaming is virtually not addressed in the current lisbon strategy. i would like to join the call for the council and the commission to work towards a gender chapter in their post-lisbon eu 2020 strategy. it is also essential that member states carry out an impact assessment on gender equality, because if we are to effectively tackle the impact of this crisis, we need measures that also take into account the particular situation of women. i believe that member states really need to be asked to design appropriate measures to promote economic recovery on the basis of such data and impact assessments. i also believe that women have a right to their own bodies and to their own health.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president of the commission, you certainly have a commission with strengths and weaknesses. i want to focus on the strengths. we have a foreign policy team that is not so easy to find anywhere else, foreign policy and development policy. mr szájer, you cannot deny that we have a better team now than we had when we first heard the first candidate from bulgaria. i have every confidence that catherine ashton will coordinate this team well. there's been a lot of talk about the one phone number that henry kissinger allegedly called. we may not have that one phone number, but if you compare that to the united states of america -- say, climate change -- who should we call? obama or the senate, which has so far refused to find a solution? and on the issue of disarmament, obama, who is for disarmament, or the senate, who has not come up with solutions? let us not make ourselves worse than we are. we have a chance to make a good impression. (applause from the centre) we have a strong team on economic policy. i hope and am convinced that the commission colleagues who did not show themselves so strongly in the hearings will develop that strength. and in social policy we have a commissioner who takes things seriously, a president of the commission who has firmly promised us that he will also put social and social policy first. we're counting on it! we are not only counting on it, we are going to push for it to become a reality. we have resolved a number of issues in the framework agreement. we've had our differences, but we've worked together. it is a very good agreement if we take it seriously. and if we can get the council to take the principles of transparency that are there seriously, then we can really do something great. the lisbon treaty and the framework agreement have provided a degree of transparency from the beginning of the legislative process to the end, to the implementation, which perhaps is not the case in many national parliaments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in swift, transparency has not been taken seriously by either the commission or the council. we now have a commissioner who was responsible for the council. that is a procedure which we in this parliament can no longer tolerate. the commission has not been able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is not involved in the negotiations, and i would like to ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is not involved in the negotiations. that's the key. we have made substantial progress, mr president of the commission, with the legislative resolutions and the commission's commitment to respond, either with its own draft legislation or with a clear explanation of why the commission is not acting. let us not pretend that in national parliaments parliament's right of initiative is always so great. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's not like that here. what the commission proposes is not yet law for us, but we are working on bringing our own ideas in. let us seize this opportunity with the new commission, with a new treaty and a new framework agreement! let us, as a parliament, be confident in the commission.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, in a democracy, consent is never a free pass, but always a vote of confidence which must be justified. so when we open a new chapter together, we are not just going on as before. as you, the president of the commission, have said. the treaty, the crises, globalisation, all require changes in behaviour on the part of us. we need more european awareness in the member states, more openness to the european union, more eu in europe, more eu in the world. the leadership of each individual commissioner and the willingness to politicise the eu debate are essential. the european parliament and the commission must enter into a new partnership. a partnership for a people's europe, a partnership against nationalism, protectionism and extremism, lies, slander, irresponsibility and lack of respect. we need a sustainability pact for all policy areas, alongside the stability pact for the currency, to increase credibility and regain lost trust. it will be necessary to develop the deficit procedure, the exit strategy and europe 2020 into a common approach in order to reduce public debt, tackle deficits, promote innovation and create growth and jobs in a sustainable way. finally, mr president, i would ask you to take stock of the situation and to put forward proposals for the coordination of economic, social, tax, research, innovation and education policies, because we need more eu in europe - that is, more solidarity and joint action.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen of the new college, ladies and gentlemen of the house and the gallery! in these times of economic, financial and climate crisis, the citizens of europe expect you to lead. they expect bold and clear projects. mr barroso, you have said several times today: 'we must not continue as before, we must be bold and courageous.' we have not seen this in your guidelines or in the hearings of most commissioners. foreign policy example: mrs ashton, you are the one who should and must be the common voice of europe. it is not just a matter of coordinating well or consulting the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. they must take the lead, including in matters of the financial crisis. we need a common financial market surveillance, a financial transaction tax. i would ask you to put these proposals to the council. do that and do not wait for the council to say yes or no or for individual member states to lobby you. if we get that guidance from you, then you will also get the approval of the european parliament. you don't have it yet.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the treaty of lisbon is intended to strengthen the european union, and therefore, of course, first of all the european commission and also our parliament. the grotesque thing is that despite this, politically weak representatives are put at the head of the eu institutions. political observers agree that the new commission does not contain any real political heavyweights. if the president of the commission is the least common denominator between the leaders of the major eu countries, this is apparently continuing unabated with the individual commissioners. and the new president of the council and the high commissioner in particular are seen as political lightweights. we are already seeing this clearly with important political partners, such as the united states, and we do not know what will happen with other partners, such as russia. the question arises as to whether a strengthened european parliament, working with a rather weak commission, can really do positive work for the integration and interests of the european peoples.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like the new commission to do more for small and mediumsized enterprises. two thirds of our workforce is employed there, and they produce 50% of the gross national product. we must above all ensure that the creditworthiness of small and mediumsized enterprises is increased, because in times of crisis risk capital is of particular interest in order to continue to pay good wages. we must be more competitive and for that we must provide better support for infrastructure. the transeuropean networks in particular should be strengthened. we must ensure that smes also have a chance in research to offer new products and services through the european institute of technology. and we must strengthen vocational training. this is a major task for the european commission. i wish the new european commission every success and good fortune for the future!
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my disappointment is not only with the people in the commission, but also with your allocation of dossiers. they have split some of them up in such a way that it will be very difficult in future to have concrete negotiations between the committees. and you have taken away from some commissioners a department in which they were actually good and given them an unpopular one. now i'm seeing this a little bit psychologically. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that is a bad decision. the second point is the interinstitutional agreement. we will really fight for its implementation, because the treaty of lisbon is in force. we will take part in international agreements and we will do so, even if there is persistent opposition from both the council and the commission. the commission should prepare for this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say to you, mr president of the commission, two things which are of the utmost importance to me. we have heard a lot today about overcoming the crisis. but one thing to be aware of is that this crisis will not be overcome if the bonuses are paid again, if the banks are stable again. the crisis will not be overcome until those who are now unemployed have their jobs back. and even those who have not had any work at all until now can work. then this crisis is over. it is therefore very important for your commission to pursue the objective of creating jobs, safeguarding jobs and ensuring that those who work hard get enough for their work and participate more in the general welfare than has been the case so far. if you succeed in doing so, mr president of the commission, i believe that the next commission will be more successful than the last.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after the fairy tale you just heard, i'd like to get back to reality. my son is seventeen years old and is studying english very hard because he knows that english is the working language and he hopes that he will get a job that corresponds to it. he is an enthusiastic european, but rightly disillusioned with eu policy. in germany, der spiegel rightly writes of rampant disregard for politics. nevertheless, millions of young europeans want a functioning, efficient and bold democracy in the 21st century. but what is being offered to us here today on the commission's benches? are these the skilled and the best we need? we are here in the last row representing an independent citizen list which has played a decisive role in ensuring that the right-wing radicals who are here are not a group again. we are ardent pro-europeans. but that's why we're extremely disappointed in the staff you're offering us and the quality of it. would we hire an assistant who becomes a laughing stock, like günther oettinger in "oettinger talking english" on youtube? i guess not. we are not talking about the european parliament, but about the commission. there are many experienced members of parliament in this parliament, mr president of the commission, with whom you could be associated. you have one with the swedish woman, that's right. but why didn't you have othmar karas? why didn't you take a german instead of what you have? because, despite the lisbon treaty, we are still trapped, because we are still not independent enough to make sovereign decisions - neither you nor we as a parliament. unfortunately, we are still not allowed to vote off individual commissioners. this is a democratic state, as we had in austria in the 19th century. this is not the europe we need, the europe we dream of. i warn you: be careful, if you continue in this way, you are playing into the hands of the nationalists and the enemies of the eu. instead, we need more democracy!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad that there was a great deal of agreement in parliament today. many have called for a strong europe. unity makes strength, and that is why i am pleased that such a good vote has been obtained for the new commission. only a europe which is capable of performing can be social in the end. the commission has made a clear commitment to this, because in the end we can only distribute what has been worked out beforehand. it is therefore important that we take care of training and education and that we put infrastructure and research at the centre of europe. it is relatively easy to make the rich poor, but it is something more intelligent, more laborious and more comprehensive to make the poor rich. this should remain the aim of europe!
in writing. - the european parliament's approval of the new commission is not a free-letter but a vote of confidence. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet ready to take up the matter. the role of the european parliament was consolidated and strengthened with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and, accordingly, the framework agreement on interinstitutional relations adopted today reaffirms the european parliament's status as an equal partner with the commission, which i very much welcome. we have thus laid a good foundation for future cooperation and will continue to press for partnership dialogue as an equal partner. it will also be of great interest to the commission to involve the european parliament at an early stage in legislative initiatives in order to ensure an efficient process in the interests and for the good of the people of europe and a living democracy.
in writing. the motion for a resolution on the new framework agreement between the european parliament and the commission for the new electoral period contains some useful points of departure. this concerns the requirement that the commission guarantee that the principle of equal treatment between parliament and the council is applied in practice, but also the precise setting of deadlines to be respected by the commission when submitting legislative initiatives. but it is unacceptable and absurd to demand that individual commissioners be asked by the president of the commission to resign on a proposal from parliament. this would only make sense if the commission could also be elected by individual votes, which is not the case at present. that is why i voted against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − as a strong pro-european, i cannot agree with the new eu commission. it is based on non-transparent decisions in the national parties and government offices. the commissioners proposed are not independent heavyweights, as younger citizens in particular rightly wish. the selection was not based on any technical criteria. the mere fact that there were four weeks between the nomination of the austrian commissioner johannes hahn and his allocation of a portfolio proves this. despite the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the european parliament is still not able to elect individual commissioners or to vote no confidence in them. political figures such as the french and spanish commissioners are being killed. this european commission does not stand for more democracy and progress, it is the continuation of the path that led us into the current crisis.
in writing. - mr barroso, president of the commission. the pragmatic reason for voting 'yes' to the commission designated is simply that the work now has to be done. this saves valuable taxpayer money! mr barroso, you have shown great skill in choosing the commission. there are excellent commissioners-designate! but there are also those which have a certain potential for development. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the euro. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have therefore rejected the proposal for the commission to be appointed in this composition. i hope that the appointment of commissioners will be made many times more transparent and that more qualified commissioners will be found!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the euro is our shield, it has proven to be an anchor of stability. this also shows us that the maastricht criteria and the stability and growth pact are an essential basis for the deficit strategy, a basis for the exit strategy. but not alone. both strategies must be accompanied by sustainable growth and employment policies. we must link the europe 2020 strategy with the others. and we need an innovation agreement, an investment agreement and a coordination agreement in the european union that covers all member states. i am in favour of the finance ministers implementing as soon as possible the three-point plan of commissioner almunia of 22 december 2004 to strengthen eurostat. five years of disability for reasonable, necessary action! we need an upgrading of eurostat, a review of the statistics of the member states and a coordination of the statistics of the ecb and the european union. we need an opening balance sheet from the european commission, we need a cash flow from the member states based on a common criteria from the commission, and we need a steering committee between the commission, eurostat, the ecb, the eib and the member states for national action plans. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, as you know, the european commission has now put greece virtually under its guardianship because of the exploding budget deficit. the only real justification for this massive interference with national sovereignty is the need to save the community currency or to avert the threat of damage to other participating countries. but it seems that the cornerstone, the essential precondition for the introduction of the euro, namely the stability pact, exists only on paper. the council has not yet taken a decision on the budgetary procedure, but it is not yet in a position to take a decision on the budget. the commission has been very hesitant in its approach to the deficit-committers. we must therefore now insist that the net debt of the member states be drastically reduced if we do not want to put our currency and our economic area in serious jeopardy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i have to say, madam president, despite all the criticisms that people like me have made of the specific shortcomings of the european union, we have always been very much in favour of the introduction of the euro. as a correspondent for der spiegel, i have seen speculation on currencies, and the euro has protected us against this. what we are seeing now, however, is a massive loss of confidence among savers and, in particular, among citizens in countries where the budgetary criteria have been met to some extent. my question, commissioner, is this: has it not become very clear to you in recent years that greece is cheating? the rumors were massive. we knew that greece had not met the criteria from the beginning. why has it not been checked more closely? how do you intend to deal with this delicate question in the future? i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course.
i have to say, madam president, the closure of guantanamo is certainly a signal that the united states must acknowledge and want to put an end to the violation of human rights in the fight against terrorism. i therefore welcome this step. slovakia, italy and other member states have agreed to take in prisoners. i think that this must be discussed at european level, because an ex-prisoner could also be able to enter any other member state thanks to schengen. but there are three main points that need to be clarified beforehand. firstly - and this is neither shameful nor regrettable, mr scholz - the security risk to the host country must be clarified. it is also necessary to examine the detainee's specific relationship with the member state concerned. and finally, and in principle, it should be clear in advance why the prisoner in question cannot be accommodated in the united states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let me come back to the land from the water as an alpine european. i would like to make a request to the commission after doha, concerning the suggestion of mandatory labelling. we know that commercial breeding birds of prey - i am thinking here of falcons - must be labelled. the animals are registered, they are marked with rings or, in the case of larger animals, with chips, so that identification is possible if necessary. without labelling, there is no trade. i'll get to the point. for other species that are threatened or being reproduced, such as the lynx in central europe, this obligation does not exist. for example, animals that are released, released or traded may not be marked and accurate recording may not be possible. this is bad for both behavioural and stock research, and of course it makes illegal trade easier. i therefore propose that this label be included as a useful contribution to the debate after doha.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of housing for households in particularly difficult social and economic situations. the fact that urban and rural areas are now to benefit equally from support is also to be welcomed. however, the aid must not be limited to certain member states and certain groups of the population and must not clearly favour those groups. that would be a clear discrimination against the others. that is precisely what this proposal does. it is particularly relevant to the roma population and to legal migrants. furthermore, marginalisation must always be tackled bilaterally, by the public authorities on the one hand, but also by the groups concerned on the other, who should themselves actively contribute to their integration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. first of all, i would like to thank the council and the commissioner for their comments, particularly on croatia. they show that both the council and the commission are determined to complete this process as soon as possible. i also agree with the commissioner that it is possible to conclude the negotiations this year if there is goodwill and appropriate policies towards croatia. but it is, of course, up to croatia in particular to take the decisive steps. let me be clear here: croatia has made a lot of progress, especially recently, especially on the issue of corruption, and has shown that no one is above the law or above fighting corruption. this is an important signal. croatia has also managed to reach an agreement with slovenia and ratified it in parliament relatively quickly, which shows a strong common will to create the necessary conditions. i hope that this will soon happen in slovenia. i am convinced that the slovenian government fully supports the agreement and i hope that the problems of internal politics can be solved soon so that the agreement can be ratified. however, there is still work to be done. it has already been mentioned: the fight against corruption is an important element. it's not gonna happen overnight. there are a lot of open questions here. but i am actually firmly convinced that the will of the government and the relevant authority exists to continue this struggle even without political influence. the reform of the judiciary: it is not only about fighting corruption, but also about many other issues, such as the training of judges. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of the european union's policy on justice and home affairs. as regards cooperation with the icty, the commissioner has made a distinction and put it well: mr brammertz has confirmed to us in the committee on foreign affairs that a great deal is being done. the only thing that is missing is the discovery of some documents relating to the proceedings against general gotovina, although mr brammertz himself has to admit that he does not know whether these documents still exist or whether they have not already been destroyed, if they ever existed at all in this full extent. i hope, however, that croatia will do everything possible. i would like to see the task force mentioned by the commissioner receive broad support, including from experts from other countries, without foreseeing that this would automatically give the croatian effort a place. but i think there's been a lot of progress here. i hope that the last bit that is still missing to convince mr brammertz of full cooperation will still happen in the next few weeks or months. the return of refugees and internally displaced persons has also been a major achievement. there are still some detailed problems which are not so easy to solve. when people have fled from houses that are not theirs, where they were renters - for example, from social housing, as was the case in the former yugoslavia - it is difficult to organise this return in such a way that people get a flat again. the economic crisis and unemployment have contributed to the fact that although many people want to return in principle, when they come to regions where unemployment is high, it is understandable that they may not return to this extent. so we have made a lot of progress in that respect. i am convinced that the present government - and i hope the opposition, of course - will take these final steps together. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. there must be a broad will to solve the outstanding problems and to say clearly, despite all internal differences, that we are on our way to europe, and as soon as possible! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, to my colleague, mr lambsdorff, i must reject your accusation. they have said that the greens want enlargement at any cost. we are quite clear that we are in favour of enlargement, including turkey and the balkans, but with all the criteria being met. let me say this about turkey: in spite of all the problems mentioned today, i see the will of the turkish government to go further. for example, the ministry of the interior has now cancelled the protocol that allowed the military to intervene independently in security matters. this is very important. i hope that there will be support from a majority of this house for our amendment no 10, which is about keeping in mind the objective of accession as well. because only then will the eu be credible in terms of what it once promised the goal of accession, if all the criteria are met. to macedonia: there is and i also acknowledge and am happy about this great progress in many areas. but on a point that mr cashman raised first, it's not right for a government to come in and want to make anti-discrimination regulations and take out sexual orientation. this is european law. human rights are non-negotiable and i hope that a majority will support this common european human right in our amendment.
i have to say, madam president, the report on turkey is still not a progress report but a deficiency report. the eu demands that turkey do more for the rights of minorities, but instead of solving the kurdish question as promised, the kurdish party dtp will be banned. for the fourth year in a row, ankara has not implemented the additional protocol to the association agreement, but through its ambassadors it is calling on the major eu member states to solve the cyprus problem. the long-awaited negotiations on the mediterranean island are not, in my view, a cause for celebration, because the latest turkish-cypriot proposal contradicts the consensus on some points, so that it is more of a step backwards. so much for the positive results to be expected from the spanish presidency. turkey is not part of europe geopolitically or culturally. human rights, minority rights and international law are still foreign words. the only honest response that would be in line with the will of the eu citizens would, in my view, be to put a definitive stop to the accession negotiations and to pursue a privileged partnership.
in writing. i welcome the progress made by croatia, especially in the fight against corruption! it must be tackled both in the institutions and by changing the basic attitudes and raising awareness among the population, where corruption is still unfortunately part of everyday life. as regards relations with your neighbours, it is gratifying that a compromise solution to the border dispute with slovenia is now clearly in sight. i also hope that croatia's recognition of kosovo will not create more tensions in the western balkans, especially with serbia, which is now understandably concerned. in view of the obvious progress made by croatia and my conviction that croatia is culturally, politically and historically part of europe, i agree with the motion for a resolution. if croatia meets all the conditions, i think that accession will be possible soon.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i don't have a problem with the machine. i just want to make a suggestion. some of the colleagues have a habit of not reading the number out loud during roll call votes. now that we have so many roll call votes and such beautiful screens, i would encourage you to maybe take that on.
a writer. mr president, after consulting mrs brantner of the green group, i would recommend that we vote for the first part and against the second part, contrary to the list we have drawn up.
, on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, this amendment refers to the fact that the government in skopje has come forward with a draft anti-discrimination law deleting sexual orientation from that whole package. that is simply unacceptable, but i do not want to give anybody the option to vote against this amendment on human rights because of the name issue with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, so i ask to change ‘macedonian government’ to ‘government of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia’.
in writing. - haiti was already a poor country before the earthquake, with almost two million people without basic health care and hundreds of thousands of orphans living on the streets or in shelters. the reconstruction of the infrastructure and the state institutions is certainly important for haitians in the long term. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. we must be careful here. the motion for a resolution seems to meet most of the problems. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. - there are always countries where the situation of democracy and human rights is questionable. the eu must not let up in its attempts to change this with appeals and so on. we should not be surprised by iran's actions and its efforts to become a nuclear power. this is partly the result of misguided us policy. the situation can only be resolved by a diplomatic solution, and the eu must not allow itself to be dragged into the us arms race. the resolution states that no substantial progress has been made and that dialogue is the only solution. i couldn't agree more.
in writing. - it is of the utmost importance to re-establish dialogue with iran. i therefore regret in particular the cancellation of the delegation's visit to iran and hope that it will take place as soon as possible. the respect for human rights and democracy is certainly not sufficiently guaranteed in the present situation in iran. however, it is not the right way to tighten sanctions against iran. opponents of the government also oppose the tightening of the rules, since it would affect the population in particular. the eu is also a double standard in this area. think of major economic partners like china or india, where they like to be ignored. i have therefore abstained.
in writing. − yemen has become a hotbed for islamic extremists and a focal point for counter-terrorism. neither poverty alleviation nor increased military aid will solve yemen's problems in a flash. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the eu must not be forced into the role of us paymaster, but must instead play an impartial mediator role to encourage dialogue and pave the way for a long-term political solution. the present resolution takes a similar approach, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the report on the promotion of good tax practice because i believe that it is of the utmost importance to combat tax fraud and evasion effectively. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms and will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms.
in writing. − although much has been achieved in terms of equal opportunities for women, there is still a long way to go. the most urgent priority is to promote the reconciliation of family and professional life, which in practice proves to be an insurmountable obstacle for many women, especially single mothers. the continued preference for men to occupy managerial positions demonstrates that de facto equality in employment can only be achieved through a change in attitudes and not through quota rules, especially as these are not uncontroversial and can all too easily trigger conflict. as the present report does not address the criticism that gender mainstreaming can also go the other way, i rejected the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on equality between women and men in the european union because it reflects my fundamental belief that women have the full right to self-determination, in particular with regard to their sexual and reproductive rights, and to unhindered access to contraception and abortion. these rights are part of the self-concept that a modern european society simply must have.
in writing. - croatia is undoubtedly the country among the candidate countries which has made the most progress so far. it would therefore be fair to intensify the negotiations further, so that they can possibly be concluded this year. the implementation of the acquis communautaire is, of course, an essential prerequisite for this. the report supports croatia's ambitions, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - croatia has made considerable progress in many respects, both in its domestic and foreign policies. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution and i am in favour of croatia's early accession to the eu.
in writing. - the accession aspirations of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia should be supported in my view, since the country is undoubtedly part of the european-western cultural circle and has recently made considerable progress in its development. the report sets out very well what steps are to be taken next. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i voted in favour of the report because it covers all aspects in a balanced way.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because of the obvious progress made by macedonia.
in writing. − the full implementation of the ankara protocol and the recognition of the eu member state of cyprus are essential for any further negotiations with turkey.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. first of all, i would like to welcome you to your first day of work and offer the full and good cooperation of our group. we must make it clear at the beginning of this debate that we want and have a good partnership with the americans, particularly on the question of combating terrorism. secondly, we stand for the safety of citizens, and we stand equally for civil rights and data protection. thirdly, we have worked very hard to ensure that the negotiating directives and our positions, which we now want to see implemented, were established by mid-september. fourthly, madam commissioner, if you will excuse me, parliament has not shown much interest, but we consider ourselves responsible, as the president said, for the enactment of the legislation, and we want to participate in this, on an equal footing with the council and the commission. if we look at the text of the negotiations, we must make two things very clear. firstly, we cannot accept the way in which this text has been drafted, and secondly, when the council says 'the points in the parliament's resolution have been taken into account', then some points are not taken into account here, namely the right of action, the deletion of data and so on. these were the main reasons why we said in the security council that we could not accept this. we must now also note that it was only after that that the matter really got moving. the american foreign minister has not said anything unless the council has different information from parliament. i'm told that's happened before. the council has shown encouraging signs this week, but has not given any guarantees. i want to make a very clear statement. so we say to ourselves that we want to discuss this further, that we want a good agreement and that we are very much in favour of discussing this further if there are guarantees for a good agreement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. no one seriously doubts the need to fight terrorism. but for developed democracies based on the rule of law, the question always arises: what is done and how is it done? the answer to this question is quite simple: we cannot make 500 million people the subject of general suspicion, we cannot make massive interferences in their rights without their having the possibility of legal protection, and above all we cannot make these measures in violation of the democratic rules. and now we are here to deal as a parliament with the consequences of an arrogant swedish presidency. not like that! that is why i am in favour of voting against this agreement tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the council has today acknowledged that the outcome of the negotiations may not be optimal. i thought we should take that and make it something better. but we cannot simply go into the shift because this shift is happening without conditions. we shall be faced with the same situation again in the next partsession. i don't see that changing anything. my second point is that we have had enough of promises that things will get better in the next round of negotiations without parliament's involvement. we were promised before this agreement that things would be different this time. again, it is not the shifting that helps, but a clear signal. thirdly, the security gaps that have been mentioned, and which are now being repeatedly said to exist if we do not agree to the interim agreement, do not exist. this is confirmed by the legal opinions which we have. we have legal aid agreements.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in 2000, 1,200 people died worldwide as a result of terrorist attacks. eight years later, in 2008, there were 16,000. in comparison, 6,000 people die of aids every day. what do these numbers tell us? first, terrorism is a hysteria that absurdly restricts civil liberties, see body scanners or the current swift agreement. secondly, this counter-terrorism has failed. she's only made the problem worse. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of intelligence cooperation. i would also like to recommend to the commission that the introduction of the common standardised user interface gsui should be supported. the commission should promote development in this area and ensure that the commission provides funding.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if there is a principle in aviation safety, it is that european competence is increasing. it is no longer possible for individual member states to do as they please. this is particularly true of body scanners. we have a principle called the one-stop security principle. the only way to go from this principle is to say that there are either european regulations for body scanners, or there are no regulations and there are no body scanners. otherwise, we have the principle that everyone does what he wants, no one does what he should, but everyone does something. if something like this is to be introduced, then we must also discuss who should finance it and how it should be financed. because these scanners, whether they're liquid scanners or body scanners, they actually cost a lot of money. i would be glad - i happen to be the rapporteur responsible for this question - if there were some movement here in the council, because it is essential to maintain that public security is a public concern and must be at least partly publicly funded.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we must not forget that international terrorism has also been made possible time and again by misinformation or by the wrong decisions of us intelligence services. the commission has not yet taken any action to combat terrorism. instead, each attack has been followed by further restrictions on freedom. it is only when the citizens of the european union are to be deprived of their financial and physical rights, so to speak, that the european parliament will wake up. the glass citizen is becoming more and more a reality, and the whole thing is then based on data and information from intelligence services, whose role and reliability have been highly controversial not only since the wars in afghanistan and iraq. in addition to doubts about its usefulness, feasibility and compatibility with individual rights, it is more than questionable whether radical islamists would allow body scanners to deter them from their terrorist intentions. the european union is also committed to the fight against terrorism and to the fight against terrorism. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already done so. of course, it is timoshenko's right to challenge the results of the presidential election in court. you can't blame her for the 2004 machinations, only this time international election observers confirmed the result. so she may insist on her supposed right. this is not politically wise, since a challenge will perpetuate political and economic uncertainty in the country. the narrow election result reflects the country's division into two camps. realistically, however, yanukovych even if he wanted to may not succeed in resurrecting the authoritarian regime that was overthrown years ago, even though the oligarchic structure in the political and economic system has undoubtedly solidified with the presidential election. the narrow result will force both sides to compromise. the people's interest is to overcome the cultural and social east-west divide in the country. much will depend on whether yanukovych appoints a prime minister that eastern and western ukrainians can live with, and much will depend on whether tymoshenko has the democratic maturity to admit defeat and go into opposition.
i have to say, madam president, the battle is won, at least for the next parliamentary term mr yanukovych will be able to exercise his presidency. i am pleased that the result was achieved in a fair election. this also shows that the emphasis on fixed positions, such as nato membership on the one hand and orientation towards moscow on the other, is not wanted and welcomed by the voters. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take part in the negotiations on the accession of the new member states. otherwise, the outcome of the next election is already pre-programmed. the eu must intensively support and help this stabilisation process. by the time of the 2012 european football championship, it will be clear whether a common ukrainian feeling has developed or whether the country will continue to suffer from its linguistic and geographical division.
the baltic states are also expected to develop their energy markets in the light of the eu's energy policy. the baltic states are now being hit hard by the economic crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am thinking here of price volatility. what is the plan for infrastructure in the baltic states and for the diversification of energy transport routes and sources?
thank you, mr minister, for your precise answers. i would like to ask you, however, if there is a clause in the bilateral agreements with china which is specifically designed to protect christian churches, or if the council is considering introducing such a clause.
in writing. the trend towards outsourcing in the 1990s has led to the transfer of not only capital but also know-how abroad in the global economy. the creation and future creation of jobs in countries with dumping wages has led to a fall in average wages in central and western europe, which has led to a fall in consumption by the population. this in turn means that european firms are no longer generating a significant proportion of their profits from the production of goods, which is their core business. they are trying to improve their profit by speculating in financial transactions. that's where you need to be. we need a quota which dictates to the companies how much share capital they can invest in securities and, subsequently, how much reserves they can deposit in financial packages in third countries. secondly, we need a system for firms that have been damaged by the crisis. thirdly, the economy is not only demanding fresh capital for banks which were instrumental in this crisis, it is demanding above all a new regulation of money transfers, strict guidelines on the sale of credit packages, and a separate monitoring body for the newly emerged and extremely flourishing trading system, with excesses such as short selling, which should be banned.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. eu free trade agreements should in principle only be concluded with countries that fully respect human rights. the ilo's core labour standards are being implemented, but above all they are being respected. the labour clauses contained in the report are therefore good, but not good enough. in recent months in particular, there have been cases in korea of violations of fundamental trade union rights, such as the right to collective bargaining and the right to form coalitions. throughout the negotiation process, the european trade unions, especially the metalworkers' unions, have been drawing attention to this, particularly to the problems to be expected in the automotive sector. the opel antwerp case has been mentioned many times. again, the company was not only moved - as the management has repeatedly presented - because of overcapacity, but primarily to move the company to south korea. who, please, benefits from this? could this not be a foreseen effect of the free trade agreement? another sector which has not been so well studied and which is facing problems is the shipbuilding sector. in this context, korea has set itself the objective in a 10-year plan, in an act of state, that more than 90% of the supplier industry for korean shipbuilding should come from korea, which makes the situation very difficult for european competitors, especially those working in this sector. (request referred to in rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course, it is true that there are serious economic problems. that is absolutely the case. except there's a delta agreement that was broken by the company's management by mr. reilly. the agreement provided opel with an assurance that its antwerp site would produce suv models, which would now be produced in korea rather than in antwerp. this is then presented to me very simply as a transfer of the previous activity of opel antwerp to south korea.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. our policy must aim to create the conditions which will enable people in the european union to enjoy the highest possible quality of life. the main challenge in times like these is therefore to maintain and create jobs. but it must not be forgotten that these jobs must not make people sick or endanger their health. prevention, health and safety at work are therefore essential. i am convinced that the implementation of this proposal for a directive, which is long overdue, will create the conditions for safer working in those areas of health care which are confronted with this danger on a daily basis. i believe that it is in the interests of all europeans to make this a reality, to implement and to live by it as quickly as possible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to welcome you, commissioner. it's nice that you're here, sitting in this seat. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. we are in a state of tension. on the one hand we need more market - we have to implement the principles of the internal market - on the other hand we must not shirk our responsibility. we must also set limits to the market in gambling. we must take responsibility. we do not want the gambling market to be like the financial market, where everyone can do whatever he wants and society pays the price. it is about the question of education, money laundering, crime, freedom of gambling. we have to unite these things. we also have no clear definitions. we all talk about gambling, but there are different kinds of gambling, there are different definitions. i therefore welcome the announcement of the green paper, so that we can move on a common basis in the question of definition, in the problems, in the different cultures. the single market approach alone is not effective in this area. but these two should not be played off against each other, but should lead to a regulatory framework within the eu so that we do not have to discuss this every year. the member states and the various providers are involved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject.
i have to say, madam president, in case c-42/07, the european court of justice examined whether portugal's ban on online gambling violated eu law. portugal had prohibited companies from offering gambling services via the internet. the companies concerned, such as bwin and liga portuguesa de futebol profissional, then took the matter to court and fought it all the way to the ecj. the main argument was that this would be contrary to the freedom to provide services and would ultimately allow any entrepreneur to offer services across borders. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. the freedom to provide services also includes a prohibition of discrimination, i.e. the state may not treat foreign service providers in a less favourable way than domestic ones. on the other hand, however, the freedom to provide services also contains a prohibition on restrictions, which means that measures which are not discriminatory but which make it more difficult for foreign operators to enter the market should of course be prohibited. interestingly, the ecj rejected this. he stated that the freedom to provide services could be restricted where the public interest was threatened, as well as where it was necessary to combat fraud, to protect consumers and to prevent gambling addiction. gambling addiction is a particular problem today. in germany alone, 200 000 people are officially addicted, and more and more young people are suffering from this problem. the age of entry is already 13 years, according to one study. on the other hand, we know the problem, but it cannot be that private operators who meet strict requirements to protect consumers properly are categorically excluded from the market and in return state gambling monopolies do not have to face competition from the community and have a greater chance on the market. i hope that this very difficult, polarized situation will be taken into account when creating a new legal framework for this and that the commission will also take these core issues into account and present them in the way i have just described.
i have to say, madam president, in the debate on whether online gambling should be reserved for monopolists, whether it should be subject to a licence or even banned, i think it is important to remember that the increase in gambling addicts is so dramatic. croupiers in casinos are known to be psychologically trained to detect gamblers with addictive behavior. if necessary, a game curfew may be imposed. since the advent of the internet, the problem of addiction has been increasingly shifting to the internet. this puts partnerships, jobs and health at risk, and thousands of euros in gambling debts can be accumulated in a very short time. another problem is the protection of young people. it's no use forbidding young people to gamble. for example, one study shows that 1 in 10 students in hamburg between the ages of 14 and 18 gambles illegally on the internet, either playing poker or betting on sports. the tragic fate of the victims and their families must not be overlooked, nor must the cost to the public.
in writing. − iceland, which submitted to the council on 16 july 2009 a request for accession to the european union, is not, of course, to be placed at a disadvantage compared with the other candidate or potential candidate countries. i therefore voted in favour of adapting and amending the existing regulation on pre-accession aid. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in general, however, this instrument of guidance should be reviewed. it is not clear, for example, why non-european countries such as turkey receive hundreds of millions of euros in european taxpayers' money, money which europe would badly need.
in writing. - within a country, there are always problems with maintenance payments. often the state has to step in and pay for the child support. estonia even posts the names of child support defaulters on the internet to get fathers to pay alimony. it is of course much more difficult to enforce court-ordered maintenance rights across borders. the eu is now seeking to facilitate enforcement through a convention, but the eu sees its powers as being a bit too broad. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. - i am convinced that the european union should not hesitate to cooperate closely and in partnership with the united states, particularly in the fight against terrorism. i have nevertheless voted against the swift transitional agreement because fundamental data protection issues have not been resolved. the non-involvement of the eu parliament in the negotiations on the agreement is unacceptable and highly problematic. although i believe that an international agreement on data exchange is necessary, civil liberties and fundamental rights must be protected.
in writing. - the eu has been fooled by the us for too long. it is high time to put a stop to the constant encroachment on freedom and privacy in the name of counter-terrorism. the transfer of financial transaction data to foreign powers constitutes a serious interference with the fundamental rights of our citizens, especially when the recipient of the data is the united states of america. the transfer of millions of bank customer data is not in europe's interest. no one knows what the us intelligence agencies will do with the data they collect, opening the door to all kinds of abuses, from corporate espionage to the internet. washington's need for bank records to fight terrorism is just a cheap excuse. the eu's rejection of the swift agreement is a further demonstration of its independence from the us. i can only wholeheartedly support the european parliament's rejection of the swift agreement.
in writing. − february 11, 2010 is a memorable day for the european parliament: meps from a wide range of political parties and member states voted to reject the transfer of european citizens' financial data to the usa! it is not clear how effective the transfer of data is in the fight against terrorism, nor is it clear that the swift agreement guarantees european data protection standards. parliament has gained influence and self-confidence as a representative body of the people and has not bowed to us pressure. the answer was a clear no to the restriction of european citizens' rights under the guise of fighting terrorism. i have therefore naturally voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted for the european parliament's resolution because i am a supporter of social partners' agreements. in this case, the recognized european social partners have reached an agreement and i call for this framework agreement to be incorporated immediately into the european law in force by the council adopting the directive without further delay.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we know that venezuela is one of the richest countries in the world in terms of oil. we also know that the country has enormous potential for hydroelectric power. nevertheless, the population is known to suffer from the consequences of years of mismanagement. for decades, the country has failed to invest its oil revenues in sustainable development and infrastructure development. the pegging of the national currency to the us dollar was probably also counterproductive. president chávez has recently tried to overcome the problem of currency devaluation and to get the national debt under control. but nationalization of banks, expropriation and temporary closures of grocery stores are unlikely to be able to halt the impending gallop of inflation for long. chávez is pursuing a dirigist, real socialist economic policy, as has been the case under other authoritarian regimes, which is undoubtedly doomed to failure. the situation is likely to worsen if the food manufacturers, who have been required to produce at prices that have been set for years and are not economically viable, are tempted to rebel at some point. i also think it is critical that chávez has spent over 70 million dollars on weapons for the national guard in this precarious situation, in which the population is suffering from power cuts, water shortages and a desolate economic situation. this is particularly bad news in the context of the ongoing protests following the closure of a critical government station, which have repeatedly resulted in serious clashes between students and opposition members and security forces. since human rights - as we all agree - are a particular concern for the european union, we must try to help. the european union must not only address human rights violations, but also look for ways of improving the living conditions of the venezuelan people without interfering directly in the internal affairs of the country. it takes a lot of diplomatic skill and tact. i hope the european union is able to do that.
the commission has already done so. the dramatic deterioration of the human rights situation in burma caused by the military junta is becoming more and more brutal. the persecution of religious communities, ethnic cleansing and expulsion, thousands of political prisoners, political trials, torture, the abduction and imprisonment of political opponents of the regime are commonplace. the new constitution and the mock elections that are now to take place will of course in no way improve the situation. in fact, eu delegations and pious resolutions in our parliament will do no good either. it is a matter of real policy to use the union's overall capabilities to influence china, india and russia to throw their political weight against the burmese government in order to improve the human rights situation here. the eu should also call on neighbouring countries to intervene in burma to improve the human rights situation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to make this quick. in the last few days two important appointments have been made: the representative of the european commission in the united states of america, in washington, on the one hand, and the special representative for afghanistan, on the other. both nominations are controversial, and there are various discussions about both. i do not want to go into the merits of the case. i would just ask, mr president, that both of them come to the committee on foreign affairs before they take office so that we can have an intensive debate there, and i hope that the president of the commission and the president of the council, with your help, mr president, will give their full support to this. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, the eu has now adopted a post-lisbon strategy, in which it is not even setting itself verifiable targets as a precaution. focusing on the green economy alone is unlikely to be enough to ensure the competitiveness of the european manufacturing site. i believe that this requires a well-trained workforce, alongside a functioning energy supply and infrastructure, and not one wave after another of economic refugees flooding the labour market as cheap labour. the call for flexibility in national labour markets must not lead to the back door of the transition periods for the new member states. the eu must not, especially in times of crisis, when more and more people are unemployed or are living off part-time or one-euro jobs, give new impetus to the existing competition for jobs. in general, there should be no arbitrariness on the part of the european union. it does not have to withdraw funding from regions with weak structures if they lack reforms - not even as a threat! we certainly do not need a new advisory board to evaluate objectives which will probably disappear into a drawer once again. instead of more centralism, we need to shift the funding back to the national level. europe 2020 must not trigger another competition marathon and privatisation exodus, but must guarantee the prosperity of european citizens. the eu now has a chance to present itself as a bulwark against globalisation. this is probably her only chance!
mr president-in-office, i should like to begin by thanking you for the letter you have sent us. i can tell you that i support the principles and values it sets out, the direction you are taking, 100 per cent. i am glad that you have said today that you want to meet almost every month, because it is your task to bring the heads of state and government and the member states back to europe. the lisbon strategy was not wrong, but the method was wrong and the political will to implement the objectives at home was lacking. the commission's task must be to coordinate the member states where the european commission and the union's powers are not sufficient. they say very clearly: the market is not enough. yes, we want the social market economy! monetary union is not enough. we need political union! the first test case for all of us will be the 2011 budget, which must already relate to the europe 2020 strategy. europe 2020 is not the goal. europe 2020 is the instrument with which we are doing what we need to do in response to the financial and economic crisis. we need more coordination in budgetary policy, tax policy, economic policy, research policy and education policy, because we can no longer improve competitiveness by pursuing economic policy objectives alone. we therefore need to implement the small business act in the member states. small business first ̧ because it creates jobs in the regions. i demand three things: mr president of the commission, we need a study of the impact of all the commission's measures on the real economy, not just the banking sector. we need a cash flow approach which also takes account of demographic trends and social and pension systems. and we need a common package of deficit procedures, exit strategy, coordination and europe 2020 so that they do not conflict with each other.
in writing. on 5 november 2009, the un general assembly adopted the goldstone report and adopted resolution 64/10. it called on both israel and the palestinians to investigate possible human rights violations during the gaza conflict within three months. unfortunately, to this day, neither israel nor the palestinians have followed through. this is very unfortunate, because the goldstone report lists the wrongdoings and crimes of both sides very comprehensively. the report said that the israeli side had committed massive violations of international law during the three weeks of attacks. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules. the use of internationally banned phosphorus bombs is also mentioned. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external policy is not distorted. the accusations are so serious that they must be clarified urgently and quickly. the un security council's rejection of the goldstone report does not mean that the recommendation to refer the matter to the international criminal court (icc) in the hague will be followed. i therefore call on the new high representative for foreign affairs, mrs ashton, to make a major contribution to the two sides of the conflict here, on the part of the eu, and to urge them to redress the crimes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the beijing platform for action has a common thread: non-discrimination. that's good! women should not be put in a worse position than men without a factual and correct justification. however, the gender ratio and therefore the so-called positive discrimination are not a sensible approach for me. it's not the gender that counts, it's the qualifications. i am therefore also strongly opposed to a quota for women in the appointment of eu commissioners. instead of dealing with quotas, we should really be dealing with oppressed and discriminated against women. we in europe allow muslim women to still live in a kind of parallel society, where violence against women and other forms of oppression are part of everyday life. we have allowed muslim women in europe to be denied the freedom to decide how they want their lives to be shaped. this starts with the style of dress, goes through education to the choice of profession and even to the choice of a husband. women's rights activists from islamic countries come to us hoping that something will change here. where is the europe of human rights when you need it? so i say: enough with the pseudo-discussions about quotas, let's fight the massive discrimination that happens every day under the guise of religious freedom in europe they have no place in our enlightened community of values!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. gender equality is a fundamental principle of the eu. this principle is written into the treaties, it is prominent on the home pages, it is liked and often quoted in many places. the question is therefore: why is it always discussed? but only because there is a real lack of equality in many corners and ends! i look forward to the day when we no longer have to talk about it and the principle of gender equality in social life is finally realized.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. the disaster is, of course, also a consequence of international global warming. we must try to control these developments which are coming more and more to us. the question therefore arises whether there should not be aid from the globalisation fund, especially for workers in madeira, because of course many jobs have been destroyed here, and whether we could not therefore help small and mediumsized enterprises to rebuild. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i therefore ask the commission to consider whether the globalisation fund could not be made available immediately.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let me first express my deepest sympathy to the victims and their families. we have a clear saying in austria: whoever helps quickly helps twice. that shouldn't be the issue. it will be necessary to find quickly the pots from which we are providing the funds and to provide immediate aid to those affected. it will also be necessary to carry out analyses. as a resident of a mountainous region, i can understand what happened here. mistakes were made here, as in our country. we have leveled, we have built water without taking nature into account, and small streams and canals have become raging rivers. i have seen these incidents, which were also commonplace in austria two or three years ago, with shock, that is, with deep sympathy and understanding. right after the cleanup, right after the damage control, we have to work together to fix these mistakes. we're offering our help. we have received international help in our great avalanche accident in galtur. international help was needed, so we were able to evacuate an entire village and the people were rescued and flown out. the time has come to make a good sign, to show international european solidarity, and i too am ready to make a contribution here.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. one of the key problems in the energy industry is, of course, energy storage. and i think that in the context of security of supply, we need to think more about storage. this is a major challenge, particularly in the case of renewable energy. on the other hand, it is also about designing intelligent networks. the more renewable energy we have, the more opportunities we have to make our environment much more energy efficient with smart grids and ultimately also to put incentives in households, to reduce consumption and also costs with smart metering. the increase in efficiency will play a very important and central role in the future, not only in energy production but also in energy consumption.
in writing. addressing the growing demand for energy while protecting the environment, especially in relation to man-made climate change, is one of the eu's biggest challenges in the coming period. in this context, it is of the utmost importance that energy infrastructure projects in the member states are known at european level. this will make it possible to work more efficiently on a european energy solution. this text on data exchange on investment projects in energy infrastructure provides a good overview of existing energy infrastructures in europe. of course, this report should not be used as an excuse for misuse of data. i therefore welcome the bipartisan compromise which sets out clear rules for the transmission of data. central monitoring also offers the opportunity to detect at an early stage whether europe is becoming too dependent on one energy source. overall, the report represents progress towards a modern energy mix.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the lisbon treaty strengthens the eu as a whole. it strengthens the involvement of european citizens and it also strengthens the european parliament. the upgrading of the european parliament also creates greater legislative obligations. this is to be done by each individual member to the best of his knowledge and conscience. i would also like to mention the slogan of legislative excellence. my vote in favour of amending the parliamentary budget is a conditional one. in view of the ever-growing crisis, we are urged to be extremely careful with our financial resources. but as parliamentarians we are also obliged to do our legislative work in the best possible way. this double claim must be satisfied.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to conclude by saying that the european parliament has dealt with this matter very responsibly. i would also like to thank the bureau in particular for finding a way to respect the 20% ceiling. it is very important for all of us in times of economic crisis to handle taxpayers' money as carefully as possible and still ensure that members are well and efficiently equipped. the fact that we have saved 4 million euros on the buildings should not deter us from using the funds we still have to ensure that our building is one of the most modern in the world, so that we can work as efficiently as possible for our citizens.
in writing. − while the whole project may have a good idea - to be able to respond to supply shortages - member states have not complied with their reporting obligations under the old regulation. the present proposal does not seem to be suitable for making major changes in this area. in the present form, however, market intervention and unnecessary administrative burdens on undertakings cannot be excluded. for these reasons, and in order not to add to the bureaucracy, i voted against the report.
in writing. the aim of this motion for a resolution is to require member states to provide accurate information on their energy infrastructure projects. the commission must be informed of the start or end of an energy project so that it can make new or amended project proposals and thus have a significant impact on the energy diversity of the member states. this is another step towards centralisation. i therefore voted against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. the resolution on the situation in ukraine is very much in line with the current situation in the country and the situation surrounding the presidential elections. it also reminded ukrainian politicians and public authorities of the need for political and economic stabilisation, which could be achieved in particular through constitutional reform, consolidation of the rule of law, the implementation of a social market economy and renewed efforts to combat corruption and improve the economic and investment climate. however, i do not see the need to consider rapid integration into the eu's free trade area or common internal market. ukraine needs to continuously build and strengthen its own economy and adapt to its own needs. in all the european orientation of ukraine, the country's historical roots in the russian sphere of interests must not be forgotten or displaced and must be taken into account. for the reasons i have just given, i therefore abstained from voting on the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - the text contains some good points, such as the condemnation of the communist regime. on the other hand, i do not think that it makes sense to liberalize visas to a great extent or to integrate ukraine rapidly into the common market. i therefore abstained.
in writing. - the protection of women's rights is also an important concern for me. i do not think that the quota system, the so-called positive discrimination, is a sensible solution: here it is the qualifications that are decisive, not the sex, and this principle applies to both men and women. i therefore abstained.
in writing. - i voted for the manka report, although i did not agree with the increase in the budget for the secretarial allowance of members. the green member responsible, helga trüpel, stated in her explanation of vote for the whole group that our agreement included the condition that there be an evaluation of the secretarial allowance before the increase. the other two points - the increase in the number of seats for committees and political groups - i consider to be both useful and necessary in the light of parliament's new legislative powers under the lisbon treaty. we members of parliament want and will take these rights very seriously and thus live up to our role as the only elected representative of the european citizens.
in writing. - a fundamental and comprehensive reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) is welcome, particularly in the context of sustainable fisheries management. the aim is to achieve this by clarifying and harmonising the framework conditions, improving controls by the member states and simplifying the decision-making system. although austria as a landlocked country is not directly affected, the steadily growing consumption of seafood is having an impact on fishing. we need practical and efficient solutions which, if well-established, provide a sufficient livelihood for the sector, secure the supply of consumers, and at the same time ensure the conservation of biodiversity and the protection of the marine ecosystem as a whole.
in writing. - the fact that fishing in europe has a long tradition and will hopefully continue to have one is welcome. however, developments in recent years show that the attractiveness of working in this economic sector is declining radically. the reason for this is that large companies, with their huge quantities of fish, are pushing the selling price so high that small-scale fisheries cannot compete with their farms. this in turn leads to an increasing dependence on third country workers in this sector. i voted against this motion for a resolution because it does not deal with these points sufficiently.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the recent events in turkey have once again confirmed that the rights of trade unions and workers continue to be insufficiently guaranteed. for over two months, 12 000 workers at the now privatized former state tobacco monopoly tekel fought against mass layoffs, short-time working and the loss of their acquired social rights. during the strike, president erdogan repeatedly threatened to have the police clear the protest camps in ankara. at the beginning of the strike, the workers were attacked by the police with tear gas and water cannons. i would ask you to call on the turkish authorities to treat trade unions as equal social partners and to adopt legislation guaranteeing full respect for trade union rights. the rights must be adapted to eu standards and ilo conventions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. one of the millennium development goals is to halve global poverty. the commission has declared 2010 the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. 16% of europeans - that's 79 million people - live below the poverty line. 79 million europeans have to live on only 60% of their country's average income. if you are poor, you lose the opportunity to participate in large parts of civil society. if you're poor, you suffer. the strategies for the european year 2010 to combat poverty and social exclusion must bear fruit, even in times of economic crisis!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to refer again to the discussion in the last debate on the one-minute remarks, where we expressed our discomfort that it is obviously not clear when it is your turn and that if you have registered five times, it is desirable to know when you will be called. this request was made by several colleagues. she obviously found her voice back then. i do not understand why we are not obviously learning from this and trying to make it easier for members and announcing a clear procedure and following it. i've been logged in since 5:00 and i'm not sure i understand the procedure.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union's efforts to contain or even eradicate animal diseases such as rabies are of course highly commendable, and it is of course extremely positive to take measures to make crossborder tourism with pets possible. the european vaccination passport, vaccination campaigns and the electronic identification of pets are of course useful measures which can facilitate this. however, i know from our experience in austria that there are phenomena which threaten this. for example, the illegal smuggling of pet puppies from cheap eastern european countries to central europe or the european union can lead to the introduction of diseases. the mass transport of animals across the union, including in austria, could also lead to the recurrence of dangerous diseases. wild animals also tend to ignore border barriers and can, of course, repeatedly spread animal diseases such as rabies. it will be necessary to take action here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is certainly not just differences in consumer protection but also differences in language which sometimes make it difficult to travel in packages to other member states. the european union has already established basic protection and common rules of the game over 15 years ago. in any event, i do not think that the revision of these rules of the game should lead to a general harmonisation in the name of the freedom to provide services. the exact requirements for travel may vary from country to country. so i think it is dangerous to put everyone on the same page and to call for paralysis everywhere. if we want to increase the liability of travel agencies as travel agents, we must be aware that this can have serious economic consequences. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. the relatively good protection of package holidays will hopefully reassure those holidaymakers who feel unsettled by the current negative headlines about greece. further announcements of strikes and protests could increase the tendency to move to other mediterranean countries and further increase the price decline in relation to greece. the crisis of the national debt is guaranteeing a critical year for greek tourism, we know that. there will be more strikes and protests. hopefully, we'll be spared the experience of how travel insurance might work in the event of a government bankruptcy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i come from austria, a country where tourism and the tourist industry have always played a very important role. almost all of us are tied to some aspect of tourism in some way. i am therefore very pleased that the commission is tackling this issue - i thank the commissioner - at the very beginning of the parliamentary term. the freedom to travel and the possibility of travel have meant that purely quantitative there is a very different weight than perhaps twenty years ago or before. the internet has also given rise to a completely different way of travelling. it is all the more important that our citizens, if they can afford a decent holiday, especially in times of crisis, can return home satisfied. and if they do have a problem, then at least they should get their hard-earned money back in a fair way. of course, the temptation to book online is real, we know that, and it's cheaper too. but no traveller will be persuaded that he will be treated completely differently at the hotel he has booked through a travel agency and another through the internet, and, above all, that he will be directed in a completely different way with his claims for compensation. there's one last little problem. it is certainly not apparent to anyone that there are differences in the guarantee which make the tour operator completely different from the airline. the latter is only liable if it is proved to be at fault. that this is a big problem, which normally can only be tackled with a very good legal protection insurance at all, is known by all who have had this problem before. i therefore very much hope that the commission will put forward a proposal which takes account of these problems and, above all, which really thinks of our citizens, who have a right to a holiday without problems, especially at this time.
the commission has already done so. i'm the mother of a large family and i've spent many years learning to read catalogues. this is a great challenge, a challenge that even the travel agents sometimes fail to meet. i therefore hope that this new directive will give consumers real freedom of choice. i will only have freedom of choice if there is comparability, if i have criteria to compare with each other. one of the criteria for me is the age of the children. no matter which tour operator you choose, there are special prices for children. it affects six-year-olds, then ten-year-olds, then twelve-year-olds. with the individual organisers, the first child is not worth as much as the second, and the third and fourth are not even there. it would be important for the protection of consumers but also for the protection of travel agents and organisers that i, as a consumer, know what i am buying by feeling really well informed in advance and having comparable criteria.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. eleven years ago i was one of the few colleagues in this house who co-founded the intergroup working party on the tobin tax, and our meetings were often accompanied by a sympathetic smile. the supposed rationality of the market, the dangers to competition and the potential for a global upheaval were all frequently referred to from the perspective of the turn of the millennium. it doesn't matter if you're making these arguments today, we just narrowly avoided a major meltdown, and that's not only costing a lot of money, but also an extremely high level of trust. if it is said that a financial transaction tax of this kind could slow down a number of things, the speculators, i shall call them that, with whom i continue to have good personal contacts, namely investment managers and what they euphemistically call themselves, are of a different opinion, because it is precisely along these marginal lines that they are doing business more and more rapidly and intensively. i am therefore convinced that a financial transaction tax would not only help to reduce the volume of money involved, but would also help to stem the tide of enormous speculation. i would very much like the commission and the national governments to take note of what mr bullmann has to say, and now also what the left has to say. it is a political question, the technical issues are quick to resolve, and there are experts for that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is a broad political will in the austrian parliament and in the austrian federal government, as well as in my party, the övp, to advocate a financial transaction tax. the financial and economic crisis has global effects, including causes that cannot be reduced to a single continent. we need not only global governance mechanisms, we need global supervisory mechanisms, we need global regulatory control mechanisms and also sources of funding. but the question of funding is not enough. the steering effects are at least equivalent. we need first of all a common european will, a european project, if we are to succeed globally. the question to the commission and the resolution which parliament will adopt on wednesday - i hope by a large majority - are an expression of this common political will to develop a model for a financial transaction tax and to implement it, preferably, globally. i expect the commission to make a very specific proposal to contribute to this community in europe and to submit it as soon as possible, and to answer our questions. what impact does such a financial transaction tax have on the real economy and on the competitiveness of the european union as an economic and financial location? what should it be charged on, what should the percentage be, who should collect it, who should receive the money? is there a purpose? i say yes, but which one? all these questions need to be settled. we are setting the tone with today's debate and wednesday's vote. give us an answer quickly.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am glad to be here and i would like to support at the outset what president sharon bowles has just said, namely that consumers need security. this echoes an ambition which i expressed when i was here in parliament, namely that consumers should take back ownership of the internal market through concrete projects. this is the case with the single euro payments area (sepa). it is a complex project, but the challenge of simple financial transfers within europe justifies our involvement. i would like to thank parliament, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for its support for sepa and to respond concretely to the five points you have mentioned, madam president, which clearly identify the problems we need to solve. i also remember the previous work and the extremely positive and interesting reports by pervenche berès and jean-paul gauzès also on subjects related to sepa. yes, madam president, a deadline could provide the necessary impetus for the sepa project. i think it is. a deadline would have several positive effects. it would provide greater legal clarity, make it possible to plan the necessary investments and put an end to the coexistence of two payment systems, national and european, which is a source of unnecessary costs. a deadline presupposes a legislative act. my services are currently analyzing various options. these analyses should be completed by next spring. on this basis, we will determine the most effective guidance. i can confirm that it could be legislative in nature. as i speak to you today - it is the beginning of march - it is really premature for me to announce that deadline. i have noted your 2012 proposal, madam president, and i will take it into account. in any case, we must allow operators a period of adjustment, for example 12 months for transfers and at least 24 months for withdrawals. the advantage of a legislative initiative could also be to address some of the issues raised by your resolution and the ecofin council to improve the quality of sepa products for its users. secondly, madam president, we need clarification on the multilateral exchange committees. this is an important issue for financing and therefore for the evolution of both sepa cards and direct debits. the commission published a discussion paper at the end of 2009 to gather new data and opinions from different categories of users on this issue. we shall be reporting on the outcome of this public consultation shortly. this question must of course be analysed in the light of its compatibility with competition policy, which is the responsibility of my colleague, mr joaquim almunia. however, i would like to make a few remarks. for levies, a transitional regime runs until november 2012, allowing for multilateral exchange fees of up to 8.8 cents for cross-border transactions. i would point out, however, that more than 70% of withdrawals in europe today are made without any multilateral interchange fees on each transaction. so the multilateral exchange commission does not appear to be the only funding mechanism or even the most effective mechanism. as you know, the commission has adopted a decision on mastercard's multilateral crossborder interchange fees. we did the same for visa. as regards mastercard, the case is on appeal before the court of justice. in the course of this procedure, which has included the level and procedures of these commissions, the european commission has already clarified the rules of the game. the court's final decisions should contribute to greater legal certainty. thirdly, as i said at the time of my hearing, i am in favour of launching a european initiative in the field of maps. a series of initiatives are being developed by the private sector: monnet, pay fair, eaps. i shall be meeting shortly, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the market players, to assess together their willingness to move forward, perhaps to coordinate their initiatives and to determine a framework for action. at the same time, the commission will analyse, from the point of view of the competition rules, the arguments put forward by the card schemes to justify their financing system. fourth point. as regards the future of governance, you know that sepa does not benefit from a pan-european governance structure. this is why there has been a joint initiative with the european central bank to create a sepa council which brings together a limited number of high-level representatives from the payments and user industries. the aim is not to take decisions but to facilitate dialogue to ensure the successful implementation of the sepa project, and we will hold a first meeting in the spring. it is quite obvious, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, that i will personally keep the european parliament closely informed of the work of this sepa council, particularly when i am heard by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the last point on the consideration of user interests, which you have mentioned, madam president, is that i regret that the banking payments industry seems to be reluctant to take consumer concerns into account. there are possible improvements in the governance of the european payments council, to promote transparency and to take account of user concerns. the sepa council will provide a good platform for these improvements. i also intend to act more directly on specific points, in particular the improvements that need to be made to the system of levies. the commission and the european central bank will very soon be writing to the european payments council asking them to incorporate certain amendments that will address consumer concerns. i do not exclude the possibility that the commission will take initiatives if we see obstacles in this direction to take account of consumer concerns. as you will have understood, madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am determined to act and make sepa work, as i told you in january, and i will naturally base these improvements and action on the work of parliament and your resolution.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not it is good that we have the euro. small countries like my home country austria would have been under massive pressure during the financial crisis in 2007. the other side of the euro coin, however, is the lack of consistency and the lack of accountability, and here, of course, there are some questions for the commission. firstly, who is responsible for the control deficit in the eurosystem? secondly, who is responsible for the fact that the wrong budget figures from greece were not detected earlier? thirdly, is it not true that we are talking about greece today, but the real problem is spain? fourthly, can the european commission guarantee that spain will not supply false budget figures, and what is it doing about it? i call for clarity and transparency and, above all, for those responsible to be held to account. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules of the game are observed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i think we can all agree that the commissioner's answers to the question are good and correct and we thank him for them. they are in line with the objectives of the european parliament. secondly, i would like to say this: the method of self-regulation in the banking sector that we have chosen for sepa is one in which the institutions are working well and in which several hundred banks have moved into the sepa area in a very short time. sepa is part of the single market, the sepa area is larger than the euro area, but it is not complete. i am very much in favour of a single legally binding closing date because i hope that with such a date we will also increase the pressure to settle the open issues and bring about the legally binding, uniform implementation. this would enable all parties to put on the table again what remains to be done. the common date is necessary to implement the sepa area as quickly, efficiently and as domestically viable as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the aim of reducing the administrative burden on micro-enterprises should of course be explicitly supported, as should the fact that micro-enterprises should not be lumped together with large enterprises in accounting. but can this objective be achieved with the commission's proposal or with your report, mr lehne, and who are we talking about when we talk about micro-enterprises? françoise castex has already referred to it. i want to go even further. micro-enterprises are often not so tiny. in austria, for example, it is not the income and expenditure account that is concerned, but limited liability companies, gmbhs, gmbh & co. kgs and public limited companies. in total, this is 90% of all enterprises in austria with less than 10 employees, just to clarify the relationships here. the other side of the limitation of liability should therefore be the obligation to keep accounts, although not, as mentioned at the outset, as with the very large ones, but one should not abolish accounting obligations. instead of excluding micro-enterprises altogether from the fourth directive, it is very appropriate to identify a reduced need for regulation and to specify it in the context of the planned amendment of the fourth and seventh directives.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am one of the chairmen of the intergroup on smes. a lot of us worked on the small business act. i hope we all share the desire to put small businesses first, and that is why we are advocating simplification and relief for small and mediumsized enterprises. what we have heard here today, of course, sounds very tempting. if it's so tempting, why isn't there applause from all sides? why, then, are there so many different examples that, despite "this simplification", do not get a standing ovation? there's a reason for that. is the new regime compatible with basel ii? we have been advocating common accounting rules for years, and now we are abolishing accounting rules. we want european solutions and simplifications, not national solutions, not a fragmentation of the law. the cross-border performance of micro-enterprises would be hampered. the exemption from the obligation to draw up annual accounts would not in fact be a relief if we had to collect the same data under a different title in many member states. but the verifiability of creditworthiness would be difficult. standards that speak of the quality of enterprises should be respected by small enterprises as well. otherwise there is a risk of loss of transparency. as companies grow, they have to comply with rules that are not available to them, and the freedom of choice of member states in these matters weakens the internal market. i am therefore in favour of the revision of the fourth and seventh company law directives, because they will bring about a uniform system and facilitate the process.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i consider my speech to be more than a summary. the commission has already said all it can for and against this directive in this form. i think that there is no objection here to the idea of restricting accounting rules in order to make it easier for small businesses. i have the impression, however, that people have stopped halfway or want to stop and do not really dare to go all the way. we all know that accounting rules will be needed and that every business, even the smallest, will need documents to be able to present and prove its business situation. this may be basel ii, it may be financial documents, it may be many things. there may also be new regulations coming in the future, perhaps from other countries - from america or from elsewhere - that we have to deal with. it must be possible to go further and to consider how we will continue to deal with accounting rules. it must be possible, in a competitive environment such as europe, to finally put in place concrete guidelines, and that is what i would like to see - and that is my approach - not only for small businesses but also for large companies. the effort - i know this from my profession as a lawyer - to obtain the necessary documents and then to evaluate them with the help of several employees is very high, even in larger companies, it involves a lot of work and costs a lot of money. small businesses do not have to go through this effort without it, they cannot. but i would urge that if you are going to deal with these companies and really look at the accounting rules under the fourth and seventh directives, you should also think about simplifying the administrative burden in general and creating sensible, meaningful directives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. solvit can and should make a significant contribution to greater transparency in the implementation and enforcement of individual and citizens' rights in the internal market. the solvit online problem solving network is based on a pragmatic approach that benefits both citizens and businesses without any major formal burdens. however, the 2009 report also shows that almost 40% of citizens' queries related to residence arrangements in another eu country. the question arises whether the implementation of the right of residence is still not transparent.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. let us take up commissioner barnier's statement at the hearing and make the single market our friend! if we are to take this task seriously, we must make the single market the home market. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. we are europe! making it a habitat, but not a home, that's a difference. the single market is not finished. he's got a lot of potential. the commission must identify any obstacles and propose measures to eliminate them. the euro and the single market are our most successful response to the challenges of globalisation, both internally and externally. the strengths of the internal market are the skills of europe's citizens and the small and mediumsized enterprises, which account for 90% of the economy. that is why we must implement the small business act in all member states as quickly as possible. let us make it the hallmark of the single market. however, 80% of the economy in the union is financed by credit and only 20% by capital markets. we must take this into account when we are re-regulating the financial market. the third strength is the competitive export economy. we also have to cope with some tensions: the horizontal approach versus sectoral concerns, the four freedoms versus the different social realities, the skills gap, especially in the areas of taxation, education and research, the unsustainable social market economy. we need a one-stop shop for business and consumer protection information relevant to the internal market. the single market forum and the joint debate on these three reports on the same day every year give us the opportunity to address all these questions and to make the single market the home market for all citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to proposals on consumer protection and would of course like to mention the positive approaches at the outset: the path to a mature consumer through greater information at all levels, from the municipal, local and regional level to cross-border transport across the eu, the promotion of consumers - as provided for in our country in austria in the antitrust law - and of course also tougher penalties for sloppy banks in the case of reckless lending. the commission has also proposed a number of amendments to the proposal. i would also like to mention some problematic points, namely the serious disadvantage in guarantee law and abusive contractual clauses, which are punished more severely in austria, for example. i would suggest that the principle of preference should be applied, so that where national rules are more protective of the consumer, they should be applied accordingly.
in writing. consumer protection in the european union must be designed in such a way that citizens can benefit from a wide range of high-quality products and services in the internal market, but at the same time have confidence that their consumer rights will be respected and that they can effectively use them where appropriate. the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include a new provision on the protection of consumers against the risks of fraud. the initiatives to educate and inform eu citizens mentioned in the report are therefore important and need to be implemented quickly. a major problem is the increasing complexity of the services sector in particular, which makes it increasingly difficult for consumers to make an informed choice when buying goods or services. the findings and needs of consumers, which are also collected through the consumer barometer, must be taken into account by the eu institutions in their policy and legislation. increased harmonisation of consumer protection rules and this is an upward adjustment is to be sought in view of the increasing cross-border use of services. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a serious infringement of the directive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a few months ago, there was not only a christmas spirit here, but also a spirit of joy among most of the people in this chamber because the visa requirements for some countries in europe had been simplified. well, what is reality? with the lifting of visa requirements for citizens from montenegro, macedonia and serbia in december 2009, a wave of entry from the balkans, via austria, into central europe and scandinavia has begun. a real migration of peoples! in just seven weeks, according to the ministry of interior, about 150,000 macedonians have taken advantage of this new freedom of travel. two-thirds of them never make it home. in some villages, especially albanian-macedonian villages, five buses depart daily for central and western europe, carrying tourist visas, which however expressly prohibit employment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so that is the difference between reality and the dream as it is lived here in this house. we have to do it in our own countries. they must be able to decide what the majority in this chamber decides. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration and illegal employment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the visa system of the schengen countries is apparently so complicated that consular staff are no longer familiar with it and can trap upright visa travelers in the visa trap. it is strange that consular staff do not know the categories of visas d and c. it is particularly negligent to make things easier and avoid consulting the sis system. the fact that this is causing countless and unnecessary problems at the external borders is clear and needs to be changed urgently. in this context, there is little point in discussing national visa alert files if not even the eu alert system and the eu alert provisions are applied consistently. the liberalization of visas for the balkan countries is accompanied by an increase in the number of hopeless asylum seekers from those countries. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the visa regime is fully applied in the balkans, and that the new rules are applied in the entire country.
in writing. - i have approved the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. germany had requested assistance in connection with redundancies in the automotive industry, specifically the karmann group. in this context, it is important to note that the money from the fund is spent on the reintegration of individual redundant workers into working life and is not used to compensate for any necessary measures to restructure companies or sectors. in solidarity with our neighbour and with the workers, i believe that the funds which are unfortunately necessary because of the continuing globalisation and the economic and financial crisis caused by speculators here and across the atlantic, must be made available without delay.
in writing. − the additional protocol to the convention on cooperation for the protection of the coasts and waters of the north-east atlantic against pollution is part of a network of regional agreements on the protection of the marine environment concluded by the eu with individual member states and neighbouring third countries. the protection of the seas, which are the food source for millions of europeans, is also an important task for the eu, which is why i have unreservedly agreed to this report. it should be noted in this context that the lisbon convention, which is the subject of this report, is supplemented by the helsinki convention, the bonn convention and the barcelona convention. each of these conventions covers different parts of the seas surrounding the eu countries and is designed to allow individual or collective action by the parties in the event of accidental or threatened pollution of the waters or coasts. the lisbon convention was signed in october 1990 but never entered into force because of a territorial dispute between two of the parties, spain and morocco, over the 'southern border' (western sahara). it was only in may 2008 that the additional protocol, which settled the dispute and provided appropriate wording, was signed by portugal, spain, france and morocco, and finally by the european community on 25 march 2009.
in writing. − to ensure effective consumer protection, it is important to improve consumer education and information. the aim is to reach the 'consumer' in the single market. the report does not address the problems of a completely unregulated market: european standards are not always met, whether in terms of quality and safety standards or environmental and health requirements. i therefore abstained.
in writing. the aim of this report is to provide substantial facilitation for the free movement of persons throughout the community of thirdcountry nationals holding a d visa for long-term stays. it completely ignores the fact that it should be the competence of the member states to decide whether and which third-country nationals may enter and whom they may refuse entry. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. the report contains some useful ideas, such as the different treatment of multinational groups on the one hand and small and medium-sized enterprises on the other in competition law. i do not think it is right, however, to deregulate or not to regulate retail prices in the telecommunications sector. in general, i think the report's tenor, which assumes the absolute efficiency of the free market, is wrong. that is why i voted against this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, the charter of fundamental rights is the only international document to date which prohibits discrimination also on grounds of sexual orientation. in other parts of the world, too, many are proud of what europe has done and would like to see it done for themselves. within the eu, we have the problem that three countries, namely the uk, poland and the czech republic, do not see the charter of fundamental rights as part of their european legal order. i would like to know what the commission is doing, what you are planning to do to ensure that the fundamental rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people are upheld in all parts of the eu, so that it is clear that homophobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation are no longer accepted not only in the field of employment, where we already have a directive, but in all areas, and that people can choose and live their love relationships without fear.
mr president of the commission, allow me to ask a question on the problem of data retention, since the german federal constitutional court declared the general retention of all telecommunications data void at the beginning of the month. the extent to which unrestricted and uncontrolled data storage and access are compatible with fundamental rights remains a matter of dispute. the european parliament has said a clear no to the swift agreement. i think that the eu directive on data retention will also have to be measured against the catalogue of fundamental rights contained in the lisbon treaty. in this connection, do you or does the commission intend to carry out something like a review of the fundamental rights catalogue's relationship to data retention?
i would like to congratulate the new commissioner on her first speech. the communication she has given us is also very interesting. but i would like to address a few shortcomings. it would have been appropriate if in this first communication you had also analysed the un process itself a little more and also criticised it where it really has weak points. in particular, we know that panel 2 was not treated with scientific care. secondly, the two-degree target we have set should have been more scientifically substantiated, or you should now increase your efforts so that we can investigate more thoroughly here whether this is still possible or whether we are moving further away from it, as we have heard from various quarters. to the dicta, and that's probably the most important thing: we must also, and especially now, tackle the crisis of confidence which exists worldwide and particularly here in europe. you know, there are polls that say that only 30% of european citizens believe that co2 is having an impact on the climate. any project which does not take this into account is doomed to failure.
in writing. the summit on the situation of the roma in cordoba should be used as an opportunity to find clear words on parallel societies in europe: effective integration at all levels should be the basis! this should be promoted at national as well as european level. but we must not forget that effective integration requires cooperation on both sides. the roma ethnic group must also contribute to integration and must act from within against the creation of parallel societies. i am particularly concerned about the education of children, especially girls: it is not possible that in the middle of europe children are barely integrated into the existing school system and then drop out of school in large numbers. this is a major threat to their future position on the labour market, and they are becoming even more marginalised and isolated. the problems of social security and housing are predictable and the vicious circle is perfect. it is therefore crucial to appeal to roma in europe to change archaic attitudes towards education and women's rights, to actively fight against their own shielding and to work for integration into society, especially the labour market.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my home country of austria promotes private pension provision with a maximum of 210 euros per year, even though pension speculation was proven to be one of the co-triggers of the financial crash in the united states. i think the commission will have to ask itself whether the provision of pensions is not the proper task of the state and whether it should be tied to dubious financial speculators. this is the question that now arises: does the commission not consider it shortsighted or even negligent to promote private provision without quality standards at the expense of the state, when there is a risk that after these immense losses the pensioners will have to be supported by the state again?
the risk of social abuse is particularly high in times of economic crisis. is the commission aware that there is a large-scale social abuse in central europe between countries with high social disparities? in particular, compensation payments for minimum pensions were fraudulently claimed by eu citizens from nine member states, whereby these compensation payments were significantly higher than the amount of the actual pension. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you have spoken again today about how everything is already transparent, how everything is already open. i have to tell you, i'm not sure i can follow that definition of transparency. obviously, this is also true of a large number of my colleagues in this house. transparency is different from throwing in a few bits of information and saying, "hmm, we can't reveal the rest of it because we promised someone that we'd keep it secret". we have entered a new phase. it will no longer be possible to use international treaties to blindly follow up with trading partners, which will then influence european legislation for the future. this is no longer possible since the treaty of lisbon. in other words, blind compliance ends up just as much as opacity and secrecy outside the doors of the european parliament. we need credibility to protect innovation, which you are bringing here as the big argument in the meeting. but you're not going to get credibility by negotiating everything behind closed doors and then trying to reassure people that it's not going to be that bad anyway. commissioner, this is the wrong way!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is now clear that the treaty of lisbon has only defined very vague foreign policy objectives. and it is probably also retaliatory that in mrs ashton an eu foreign representative with no real foreign policy experience has been elevated to this post as the lowest common denominator of the member states. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty, and it has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty. we cannot really afford to have a european external action service. this new and undoubtedly important service must not, or must not, be reduced to a field of activity for eurocrats, who are not the heads of the member states. it is probably time to clear up the confusion about the establishment of this european external action service and to make the eu heard from the outside again. and it is time for the new foreign minister to be more sensitive on these matters, for example by using all three working languages of the union, including german, in the european external action service. the experience and good relations of the individual member states with certain regions should be exploited to the full. austria, for example, has a long history of working with the western balkans. it must be clear that the security of europe is also defended at the eu's external borders in the balkans and not at the hindu kush. the eu must stop playing the extended arm and paymaster for nato and the usa. european money is certainly better spent on frontex than in the deserts of afghanistan.
mr president, as vice-president of the commission, but also as high representative, mrs ashton, because unlike the foreign ministers, i believe that you as high representative also have a certain political responsibility towards this house! today marks the 100th day since the treaty of lisbon came into force. two major changes are coming: one is - as you said at the beginning - to expand foreign policy, because climate, energy and other issues are part of foreign policy, and the other is to create a strong, effective foreign service. copenhagen - if we are talking about energy policy - has shown that if we are divided and divided, if each head of government thinks he has to produce in particular, we will achieve even less than we would otherwise. not that we had a great result, given the attitude of china and the us, but the bad performance we delivered in copenhagen should have been the last time. we must therefore - and i agree with mr brok - create a viable foreign service. i am not surprised, and many of us are, but i am appalled at the jealousy of some foreign ministers who are giving you trouble. we say it openly! some of them support you, some of them make trouble. they can't stand the fact that they're not the main character anymore, but the foreign minister. it is not a bad thing to be a foreign minister, since you do not have to determine everything that happens in the european union. we are therefore also clear from this position: we will make full use of our parliamentary powers, not to prevent something, but to build something constructive. the constructive thing is to have an external service which is clearly subordinate to you, mrs ashton, as is also stated in the treaty of lisbon, and an external service which, of course, works closely with the commission. we will not tolerate that something which has been legally communal until now and which will remain so after the lisbon treaty is suddenly intergovernmental. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and that is not acceptable, there must be a clear line of demarcation. as things stand at the foreign office, there will be discussions in the coming weeks. i am also following up what has already been said. it is not a question of timing, even if we want a solution quickly, but of content. and let me say again, especially to the council of foreign ministers: this parliament will not use its rights - not more, but not less - on the budget and the staff regulations, because we have one objective, and that is an effective, efficient foreign service. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let me just say two things. firstly, the duty to assist is obviously incompatible with austrian neutrality, and for this reason it would have been important to include the following in this report: first, the obligation to provide assistance is not legally binding, second, it does not necessarily require the use of military means and, third, it allows each member state a margin of appreciation as to the content of the assistance. the committee has not accepted this, particularly as regards the content. the way in which this was rejected also shows a great lack of respect in my view. i would ask you, mrs ashton, to show more respect in this very sensitive area for us austrians. second point: the quality of democracies and societies is, of course, always reflected in the way minorities are treated. i think it's very, very good that there's this possibility of the minority report. i do not agree with all the points, but i am very glad that mrs lösing has taken this opportunity. (applause from the centre)
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, madam high representative! as the kosovo rapporteur for this parliament, i am pleased to hear you say that you see the western balkans as a priority in european foreign policy and that the eu cannot afford to fail. but you said bosnia was stabilized now. mrs ashton, given the state of affairs in bosnia at the moment, stability and stabilisation are rather dangerous. not all people can participate in the democratic process. the constitution as it is now - the dayton constitution - was a sign of stability in the 1990s, but it is no longer. what strategy do you have, do we have as the eu, to change this? you said you had a strategy for bosnia. dealing with the office of the high representative where is the eu strategy? i'd like to hear that from you. i think the eu still has to develop a strategy here. kosovo: you said eulex was a success. only part of it. there is still much to be done, for example, visa liberalization for citizens. mrs ashton, i urge you to start the commission on a roadmap immediately to make it clear to the citizens of kosovo that they will not be left alone. i am afraid you have not answered a question from my colleague mrs brantner. a separate department, a separate directorate-general for peacebuilding in the foreign service, would be the order of the day. you agree with us that peacebuilding is important. but how will you anchor it in the foreign service? will you set up your own directorate-general for peacebuilding? this would be necessary to clarify where the european union is going. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. this means that they can decide where, when and how to participate and provide assistance.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by congratulating both colleagues on their reports, which have been the basis of a very good debate with excellent results. there are some guidelines i'd like to address. first, the common foreign policy. unfortunately, we have a very mixed picture of the european union at the moment. i would ask and urge you, high representative, to help us do this and to ensure that europe speaks with one voice. this is very necessary for a pan-european approach. secondly, the transatlantic relationship has been rightly mentioned. we need a close partnership with our colleagues in the united states in the diplomatic field, in the economic field, in security policy, in defence policy, but on an equal footing and as equal partners. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new financial regulation, which is to be adopted by the end of the year. thirdly, the western balkans are rightly a crucial moment for the future of european security and foreign policy. we must give a european perspective here. this means political stability, personal security, economic development. all of this should and must be done, and here you have parliament at your side, helping to fulfil the role of a european external action service. we understand the european external action service as a service for europe, not for the member states, for the institutions which think and work in a european way, and not for other interests. here you will have parliament on your side. i am of course also in favour of the german foreign minister's request that german be used as a working language for the european external action service.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report also contains a number of recommendations for the future of the european union. the european union is not a party to the schengen agreement, but it is a party to the schengen agreement. the european union must also be able to play a leading role in the fight against organized crime. the european union must be able to play a more active role in the world, and the european union must be able to play a more active role in the world. this double standard must be rejected. i am speaking, of course, specifically as a representative of a neutral state. the commission has also said no to the abolition of the visa requirement, an unthinking abolition for the balkan countries, where after only a few months some 150 000 macedonians are already on their way to central europe, two thirds of whom are already living illegally. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, colleagues have introduced an amendment which we could agree with if we combine it with the original amendment. i understand the colleagues and we share the view that our strategic decision should not depend on russia, but, on the other hand, russia is an important partner. if the colleagues could agree that we take their amendment and say ‘including russia’ – russia is one of the members of the continental dialogue – we could agree and we could vote for this amendment.
in writing. − the future strategy of the european union aims to meet current and future challenges and to respond to them in the best possible way. in the context of the eu 2020 strategy, the agricultural sector in particular is making a significant contribution to the new challenges defined by the eu, such as environmental and climate protection, renewable energy, biodiversity, and sustainable growth and employment, especially in rural areas. europe must be aware that some 40 million jobs are directly or indirectly linked to agriculture. however, the top priority must remain the security of supply of 500 million europeans with high-quality food, especially in the context of a doubling of food production by 2050. this is why the european agricultural policy must be given greater attention in the context of this new strategy.
in writing. − the question of where the eu should be in employment and economic development in 2020 is of central importance. the eu 2020 strategy is intended to act as a motor for overcoming uncertainty, especially in times of economic crisis. it is all the more important to choose the objectives in such a way that they can be achieved. politics is not an end in itself, but its task is to create realistic programmes that people and the economy can keep up with. a key element in shaping the immediate future must be the sustainable economy. this is a goal which we must achieve step by step, not least because of climate change. the question of raw material security will also be a matter of increasing concern in europe in the future, so we should already be setting the course for a sustainable use of resources and positioning european policy in this direction.
in writing. the european union is committed to the peace process and to the peace process in the middle east, and to the peace process in the middle east. on 26 february 2010, the un general assembly reiterated its call on both sides to conduct credible investigations and to submit further reports within five months. the palestinian authorities have now set up an independent committee of inquiry, which is very welcome. the european union's action on the international stage must be directed towards strict compliance with the principles and objectives of the united nations charter and international law. similarly, respect by israel and the palestinians for international humanitarian law and international human rights standards is an essential precondition for the peace process, which should lead to the creation of two states coexisting in peace and security. the eu is seeking, with today's resolution, to encourage a firm common position on the follow-up to the report of the un reconnoitering mission headed by judge goldstone on the conflict in gaza and southern israel. the report also calls for public action to ensure that the recommendations of the report are implemented and that responsibility is taken for all violations of international law, including alleged war crimes, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution on the goldstone report sets out in detail and fairly the european union's desire for an explanation of the events during the gaza conflict. the un general assembly also called on 26 february 2010 for an investigation into the incidents and alleged serious human rights violations within five months. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the european union must, in my view, play an active role in international organisations and bodies in order to ensure that international law is respected and enforced. the respect for international humanitarian law and international human rights standards by the two parties to the conflict would be the basic precondition for any appreciable progress in the middle east conflict in the peace process, which could now suffer another serious setback as a result of israel's planned settlement building. the joint resolution calls for the implementation of the recommendations of the report of the un fact-finding mission headed by judge goldstone on the conflict in gaza and southern israel, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − i believe it is essential that the financial sector contributes in a fair way to the recovery and development of the economy, especially as the real economy, taxpayers, consumers, public services and society as a whole bear the significant costs and consequences of the financial crisis. a possible tax on financial transactions could reduce the immense volume of speculative capital that has repeatedly affected the real economy negatively in recent times, and thus represent a step towards sustainable growth. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax is not imposed on the consumption of agricultural products. the resolution tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs calls for this and that is why i voted in favour of it. a crucial point which is only mentioned in passing in the text but which must be clearly defined before the decision is taken is the possible use of the capital which could be generated by this tax. in my view, the tax must be levied where the transaction takes place, i.e. it must also benefit the countries in whose territory the stock exchanges are located. the exact mode of settlement has yet to be clarified. if the eu insists on collecting the tax itself, it must in any case be set against the gross contributions of the member state. the eu must not become a fiscal power.
in writing. - the acta negotiations on copyright and anti-counterfeiting and product and internet piracy are without doubt another important step towards protecting intellectual property. the commission's information policy on the negotiations is unfortunately not very good. the lack of transparency on the state of play of the negotiations makes it difficult for the european parliament to participate constructively in the drafting of the provisions and thus ensure in advance that there can be no curtailment of the citizens' rights of europeans and no violation of data protection directives. i support the motion for a resolution (rc7-0154/2010) and therefore the european parliament's call on the commission to make its information policy more transparent, complete and therefore more integrated in the course of the acta negotiations.
in writing. − this report seeks to further position the eu as a global player. but there is no clear objective, no clear direction of the common foreign and security policy. the demand for greater financial resources must therefore be rejected in this context. in general, international commitments should be reviewed in the future for their usefulness and benefits to the eu. the cfsp should finally be approached in a strategic way. i must oppose the aim of abolishing the unanimity principle with all my might. the european union has a long history of supporting the peace process, and it is not just the united states that is doing this. the eu must be able to set up its own structures and, of course, provide the resources to do so. in view of the large number of missions and operations, many of the 23 different actions currently involving the eu should be reconsidered. the strategy pursued there under the guidance of the united states can be described as a failure, especially in afghanistan. the eu's commitment should therefore be reconsidered without delay. in the context of the eastern partnership, it is important to recall that russia's interests must be taken into account for historical, cultural and geographical reasons and that the eu must refrain from unilateral action. i have voted against this report because it does not really take this into account and because it is deficient in other areas.
in writing. the report by arnaud danjean on the implementation of the european security strategy and the common security and defence policy is very comprehensive and covers a wide range of topics of importance to europe. however, there is no clear focus on the basic direction of eu foreign policy in the coming years, and no firm line. on the one hand, a strong foreign, security and defence policy is intended to strengthen the eu's autonomy vis-à-vis other global actors, in particular the us, which is to be welcomed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the commission is also proposing to set up a european network of national authorities. the call for a white paper on the csdp, clearly defining its objectives, is therefore more than advisable. although i am critical of the increasing centralism in the eu, i support the creation of a permanent eu operations centre. this would enable us to plan and execute the various operations more efficiently. in addition, cost savings could be achieved by avoiding duplication. the solidarity clause in the context of natural disasters and the creation of a european civil protection force is certainly a useful and desirable one. however, due to the unclear posture, i had to abstain in various areas of the voice.
i have to say, madam president, in the future, if methane, with its much higher warming potential than co2, is increasingly leaking out of the arctic ocean through the thawing of the seafloor, we have a highly dangerous new variable in the sensitive climate system - a variable that needs to be studied more closely as soon as possible. the arctic will not only give us a climate-related headache, it also holds a lot of potential for conflict. the fact that even china has reportedly begun building icebreakers illustrates the importance of a trade route through the northwest passage in the event of a melting of the ice sheet. this peaceful use is, however, far less problematic than, for example, the increased desire of the united states to station military early warning systems in the arctic. the conditions for economic exploitation of the mineral resources through melting should also be clarified in advance. the oil and gas reserves that are believed to exist there could guarantee europe's energy independence.
i have to say, madam president, the death of the dissident zapata by starvation and the arrest of the blogger sánchez, who informed the world about everyday life in socialist cuba, make it clear that we must continue to stick to the linkage of cuban politics with progress in democracy and human rights agreed in 1996. the hope of progress under raúl castro has long since vanished. the situation of political prisoners has not really improved, they have nowhere near the freedoms granted to the castro brothers during their own imprisonment under the batista dictatorship. the council of ministers has already decided to extend the period of validity of the protocol to the period of validity of the protocol. prosperity and initiative are apparently seen as criticism of the regime in cuba. even people in communist china have it easier, who can at least improve their lives by their own efforts. while the easing of the us economic embargo on computers and software products may not be quite what the public expected obama to promise, it may help to better organize the opposition. last but not least, as supply increases, it becomes more difficult for the cuban government to suppress free speech in the long term. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia.
i have to say, madam president, the european union has a duty to help the people of cuba, and to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to help the people of cuba, to the people of cuba, to the people of cuba, to the people of cuba, to the people of cuba, to the people of cuba, to the people of cuba, to the whole world, to all of cuba, to all of cuba, to all of cuba, to all of cuba, to all of cuba, to all of cuba, to all of cuba, to all of cuba, to all. on the one hand, the evil cubans as vassals of the soviet union, making the international revolution, on the other hand, the good cubans, saving the country from the clutches of the sugar barons, from the clutches of the mafia, the cia and us imperialism. on one side the evil cubans, the communist oppressors of the people, on the other side the one who brought education, health care and the end of hunger to the population. today, if the death of orlando zapata is to make sense - if death is to make sense at all - we should take this legacy very seriously. death must not be in vain. the other is for the eu to take clear steps, to take its own political steps, and not to let itself be dragged into a cart of states by old ideological hypotheses, but to work on equal terms in political dialogue to ensure that there are clear improvements in the human rights situation, so that we can soon speak of a free cuba and the people can live in democracy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too am in favour of respect for human rights in europe and in other parts of the world, including cuba. the death of mr zapata is a cry for help from a man who is drawing attention in a very tragic way to a situation which is, at least for him, very intolerable. i would like to see us europeans clearly advocating respect for the united nations charter of human rights, regardless of the political situation.
minister! you have already mentioned it briefly: domestic violence is not only directed against women but also against children, and domestic violence also occurs in the field of elderly care because of the overload. to what extent will these areas of domestic violence also be in the focus of the planned european observatory?
the danube is a river, and a river is a river that must be kept clean. it would therefore be important to know which sewage treatment plants and which waste water treatment plants are considered here in order to improve the river water accordingly. for us, the goal would be to ensure that the danube receives drinking water quality from the source to the end. my second question is: how can hydropower be used more for energy supply, but above all also for water storage, so that we can have more security of supply in europe in the field of energy?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i speak for myself and i want to say to my colleagues: for me nuclear technology is not the answer, and it is not a renewable energy for me. we have a responsibility here to take action that will benefit our children and our future in the long term. it is therefore very important for us to reduce co2 emissions, but on the other hand this reduction must not be at the expense of the environment, i.e. we must be very careful about what measures are promoted and what measures are invested in. we cannot save co2 on the one hand and ruin our environment on the other. 2010 is the year of biodiversity, and it is very important that we also state in these papers that all investments, all measures must also be seen from the point of view of preserving our environment for our children, for our future and for biodiversity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not going to tell you. i had the opportunity last october to see, as part of a delegation from the committee on regional development, the great things that are being done in madeira with european union funds, and so i was personally very affected by this disaster. i would also like to express my condolences to the families of those who were killed, but also to those who in a few hours lost everything they had built up over a lifetime. the european union is being tested at this very moment, and the solidarity fund was set up for such difficult situations, because the people of madeira and france need not only our sympathy but also, and above all, our financial support. the catastrophe in both france and madeira has also been compounded by the fact that people may have been too ambitious in trying to cut off space from nature and trying to live by overriding natural laws. that this will not work in the long term has been made painfully clear to us once again. this means that all financial resources must also be used in a way that guarantees safety, prevention and sustainability, and this must be given special attention.
the recent storms in madeira, parts of spain and france have taken a heavy toll, with over 40 people killed in madeira, another 60 in france, countless missing and considerable property damage. the european union can demonstrate its added value in dealing with natural disasters. the dramatic impact of hurricane xynthia and the devastating floods require rapid and uncomplicated cooperation between european partners. the european union's solidarity fund and other financial instruments can at least help to repair the economic damage caused by the disaster more quickly. however, the organisation of civil protection must always remain in the hands of the member states which are best placed to respond to their national circumstances and therefore can react most rapidly in an emergency. in order to prevent future storm damage, the commission should support member states in their efforts to establish effective emergency plans and risk tables. of course, with climate change and the resulting shift in water cycles, more severe storms will not be completely avoided. but the damage can certainly be reduced by better planning ahead.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. given the devastating effects of the 8.8 magnitude earthquake in chile, the mayor of concepción is right: 24 hours is an eternity for someone buried under rubble. although the government and emergency services in this latin-american country are undoubtedly well prepared for earthquakes, logistical problems prevented aid from reaching more than 2 million people in time. troops that arrived late were overwhelmed by the chaos. not only were people afraid of aftershocks, but they were also afraid of criminals, so they had to flee to the rooftops and put up roadblocks. chile may be wealthy enough to provide for the earthquake-stricken population itself, but it has thankfully overcome its pride and asked for help, including from the eu. but we will also have to learn from this ourselves, namely that in an emergency the veneer of civilization can quickly fade and 24 hours can be too long. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on cuba because it is important that the eu also make clear that there is an urgent need for democratization in this country, which is still under communist rule. the imprisonment of dissidents and political opponents is a typical feature of communist states, but is excessively practiced in cuba. it is a particular scandal that the family of a prisoner who died as a result of a hunger strike is not even allowed to organise a funeral. it is to be hoped that there will be a change in the political system in this country as soon as possible. but regardless, it is important that the eu and the us set the same standards everywhere. it is unacceptable that the us should grant 'political asylum' to cuban persons involved in bombings. the only way to be effective in criticism is to adhere to the criteria that are set.
in writing. - i abstained in the vote on the 'resolution on investment in the development of low-carbon technologies', which, although it contains several sensible proposals, also favours the development of nuclear energy, which i oppose because of the great risks involved. the resolution rightly points out that research has been far too underfunded. but if europe is to remain competitive with other global players, it will need to massively increase its funding for research, especially in the field of new energy. the development of new low-carbon technologies in the energy sector will hopefully not only safeguard existing jobs in this sector but also create many additional highly skilled jobs. i believe that the best way to do this is to invest in solar energy and carbon capture and storage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the nuclear accident. this new focus on energy will also improve the security of energy supply within the eu and increase independence from foreign suppliers.
in writing. − on 20 february, a severe natural disaster with unprecedented heavy rainfall, combined with strong winds and very high waves, hit madeira, killing at least 42 people and leaving several missing. hundreds of people have also been made homeless. a few days later, the devastating hurricane xynthia swept along the french atlantic coast, killing nearly 60 people, particularly in the poitou-charentes, pays de la loire and brittany regions. there are still several missing persons there. there are also thousands of homeless people. i therefore support the measures proposed in the joint resolution to provide financial support for these countries and regions by the eu, which is why i voted in favour of the motion. in particular, it is necessary to ensure that the european union solidarity fund is mobilised without delay and in a flexible manner.
i have to say, madam president, i am not going to go into detail. it is quite clear - and this has been said here too, mr langen - that greece must do its own homework. but it has also been made clear, from my point of view, that there must be solidarity. solidarity, which also helps greece to cope with its tasks. and regardless of the percentages, speculation, which is not to blame for the crisis in greece, but is to blame for the enormous debt that greece now has to incur, beyond what is necessary, that is the decisive thing. and, mr langen, a newspaper which is closer to you politically than to me, the financial times, has made it clear that this is the difference between mr kohl and mrs merkel. mr kohl would have said: let us now solve the problem together with greece. mrs merkel flees from that and says: 'yes, what does the treaty say? what do the court of justice and the federal constitution say? that is the difference between being politically on the level of european integration or looking at home, or having a foreign minister say: 'we are not going to put the money on the display now.' nobody asked for the money to be put in the display! if you are only populist and do not think about the common future of europe, then you have this cacophony. or as another newspaper closer to home, the faz, says: every day a new proposal. this is not just a german question, but a question for the whole european union. the answer or the lack of answer we have just given is unacceptable. and so both are necessary: the measures in greece are needed, there is no question about it, and they are tough, they are very tough. but we also need cooperation at european level, above all to prevent such problems from arising. and this can only happen - whether in the framework of a european monetary fund, as schäuble proposes, or in other ways - if there is also european solidarity at the same time. i expect european solidarity from the summit to help shape the future.
i have to say, madam president, i agree with all those who are calling for greater european integration at this moment, particularly in the economic sphere, and i hope that this will be discussed not only at the eurozone summit but also at the european council. however, there are - and my colleague has just mentioned this - people who also see the negative aspects of the euro. there is a congenital defect in monetary union, namely that of having a common currency and not at the same time making economic policies more common. we have to realize that this was a big mistake. the voice of reason tells us that now a solidarity fund also for greece must be set up, so that lower interest rates for greece are possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. a major factor would be to cut the military budget. a country in the eu which spends over 4% of its gross national income on military expenditure, on defence products from countries such as germany, france and others, is not needed in this european union, and that includes saving.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis and greece require european action. it has to end with the public dispute. we are waiting for a joint response from the summit. we say yes to the greek government's austerity and reform programme greece is determined to do its homework and to comply with european rules. we also say yes to loans if the reform course is jeopardized. but we are definitely saying no to fines and to the exclusion of a country from the euro zone. this would only create a domino effect, leading to a loss of confidence in the markets. we also say yes to commissioner rehn's proposal for the commission to give prior approval to the draft budgets. budgetary and economic data must be checked by eurostat and the commission. i call for a cash crunch in all member states on the basis of a common catalogue of criteria. the tax systems and rates relevant to the internal market must be harmonised and economic, budgetary and social policies coordinated. i call for a planning committee europe2020 between the commission, the member states, the eib, the ecb and eurostat. i therefore call on the heads of state or government to document unmistakably a common european will. greece is a 'learning example' for europe. the consequences must be borne by the local, european and global levels. more european cooperation and less national egoism are the order of the day.
in writing. the eu can only succeed if we know where we want to go economically and socially. therefore, particular attention should be paid to the preparation of the 2020 strategy. the member states must come up with clear concepts, ideas and ideas. the commission's strategy for the next ten years is certainly ambitious. but this is not about the last detail. the eu must ask itself where it wants to stand and what its priorities are. a goal that will also have positive social and economic effects in the long term is to create a sustainable energy mix for europe. the need for a rethink is not only due to the ever-decreasing use of fossil fuels and the climate impact of non-renewable energy sources. europe must take the lead in environmentally friendly technologies. i do not think that nuclear power is a bridge technology that is very suitable for europe to move towards a sustainable energy future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have a huge responsibility in designing this instrument. the hope of citizens who think in european terms and who want to promote and implement european concerns at european level is directed at us. we must avoid at all costs the mistakes that are currently being made in the field of petitions. we must avoid the european citizens' initiative becoming a mere plain of complaint and then not having any consequences later on. active citizens are waiting for the result, waiting to see how we will shape this. if we set the bar too high, we will frustrate a great potential for europe. you remember that. it's an enormous effort to collect a million signatures for people interested in a particular issue. if these are then thrown away without any proper treatment and consequences, then we have probably done a disservice to democracy in europe. the commission's approach to this issue is therefore of particular importance. that's what i'm focused on.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the spanish presidency for having decided to present the initiative earlier than originally planned. thank you so much for that. i will now continue in german. i would also like to thank the commission for having taken up the initiative of the spanish presidency and said: yes, we will do it faster, we will submit the proposal next week. we hope that this will be a fertile proposal for the summer. it is important to meet the expectations of the citizens. i stand before you as many as there are of my predecessors and predecessors, and i ask you to stop the hurdles of nine countries, which are now planned, and to simply go on. my proposal would be to start with five, also a fifth of the länder. a million signatures to collect, it's not easy, even if you can do it over the internet. but it is necessary for people to show that they want to join this common europe and lead an authentic european debate. i also think it is important that the legal, formal and substantive examination of the claims should take place at the outset and not only after the parties have started to sign the documents. it should also support initiatives, e.g. with translations. if that happens, we can create, the bürgerinnen und bürger wieder and stärker for this common europe zu begeistern.
i have to say, madam president, recently we have been hearing about serious human rights violations in tibet, torture, arbitrary arrests, detentions without trial. the fact that the liberation of tibet was mentioned on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of chinese rule in tibet is a powerful statement. it shows once again that history is written by the victors and that people are always very inventive in justifying acts of war. a technique which, by the way, has also been used in iraq and afghanistan and for which the usa has also found support from some eu member states. nevertheless, i believe that efforts to improve the living conditions of oppressed minorities such as tibetans, uighurs and mongols must continue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact that china has invested some 15 billion euros in the region's development in recent years and has also agreed to talks ahead of the 2008 olympic games, in my view, shows that international pressure can indeed bear fruit.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to clarify this for the commissioner. tibet is an occupied country to me. and i believe that many colleagues in this chamber, across all the political groups, share this view. and you cannot override international law either. i believe that this is a matter which really touches the hearts of all european citizens. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. we are very quick to condemn small countries that commit violations. we have a very strong reaction, we are very quick to condemn small countries. but we are very careful politically when it comes to condemning a big country, an economically important country like china. you're running on raw eggs, politically and diplomatically. it is not a sign of courage and backbone to attack small sinners here, but to turn a blind eye to china. we cannot pressure china with millions of dollars in development aid. i therefore expect the high representative to... (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say, madam president, around 10 years ago, the then 14 eu member states imposed the so-called 'sanctions' on my home country, austria. the council of ministers adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which was adopted by the council on 27 june. apart from sanctions, there was also a result. the independent weisen report clearly stated that the participation of the freedom party in the government did not pose a threat to democracy and human rights. conclusion: the eu sanction, disguised as a bilateral measure, was not based on a valid legal situation. it was an unjustified interference with austrian sovereignty. but i think the eu has learned from this to respect the political opinions of others and to respect the sovereignty of the member states and their people, and i think that is a good thing. and in view of the peace in austria, i hope that one of the main inquisitors, the current mep louis michel, will dare to go back to austria after ten years to take a holiday there.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the priorities for the 2011 budget of the european union are marked by the economic and financial crisis. this is linked to the joint positive efforts to implement the most comprehensive and socially just solution possible. i shall concentrate on two aspects. firstly, a key element of the 2011 budget is the focus on young people. you will definitely play a key role in europe's future. investing in young people means thinking today about the europe of tomorrow. secondly, the present situation clearly demonstrates how quickly jobs can be destroyed even in a strong economic area. strategy 2020 also has a focus on innovation. the hopes which are rightly attached to it will create new jobs and will reduce social barriers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need a different eu, and we need a different eu budget. i think we need courage to make big decisions. we certainly shouldn't get into a little technical detail. three things about the eu budget: firstly, we need transparency as regards the eu budget. what are the administrative costs? the current eu budget does not provide any realistic information on this. secondly, savings. it is easy to save billions in the eu budget without reducing the quality of the performance of the eu institutions. i am thinking, for example, of the closure of a large number of eu agencies. i am thinking of the second seat in strasbourg. or the usefulness of bodies without competence, such as the committee of the regions or the economic and social committee, should be discussed. third, how is the money used? the money should be given or returned to where it came from, namely the taxpayers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we need courage. we should all be writing that down.
mr president, i refer to heading 5, specifically the building strategy. a successful medium and long-term building strategy is important. it must be environmentally friendly, energy efficient and particularly cost-effective. the purpose of the three places of work of the european parliament should also be openly discussed. the horrendous costs of the various sites are hardly justifiable to eu citizens and taxpayers, especially in times of economic crisis. it is time to carry out a thorough and comprehensive cost analysis and make it available to every eu citizen. the european parliament should therefore be concentrated on one seat, and i personally prefer strasbourg because of its historical and socio-cultural bridge function and not least because of the fact that brussels is sinking into crime, the districts are falling into anarchy, the police have resigned and even local politicians, such as mayor freddy thielemans, admit this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the production of high-quality products is a fundamental requirement for european farmers. i am not in any doubt that there must be a link between the quality of the product and the origin of the raw material. i therefore see a mandatory quality label as a major opportunity for our farmers. quality as a key factor has a major impact on the competitiveness of food producers in the european union throughout the food chain. the production of high-quality food is a traditional activity and is often the only source of income and disposal in many rural areas with limited production alternatives. to ensure this high quality standard, there is certainly a need for controls and objective criteria. but it is also a fact that economic considerations on the part of consumers come into play. quality comes at a price, and farmers need a fair income. the consumer is nevertheless free to choose a low-cost product, although he often chooses a product of lower quality. but one thing must be clear: the consumer must have the freedom and the ability to make a decision on the basis of objective and obvious criteria. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we need protected geographical indications and designations of origin. we need to introduce a new regulated and protected name for products from mountain areas and from areas free of genetic engineering. but we also need references to guaranteed traditional specialties and organic farming. these must be preserved in any case.
i have to say, madam president, food control is a utopia. but apparently, so are the pressures of control and consequences. that's the salad! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health of the public is protected. what comes out of that is something we've only recently seen in the listeria cheese scandal. the lack of labelling is often a problem for food inspectors - and not just for them, but also for consumers. they're absolutely overwhelmed by the jungle of labels. it says "farmer" on the packaging, even though the product has been processed industrially. and it says something like "original from austria", and the ingredients are from all over the world. quality-conscious consumers are willing to pay more for quality food. the question is how long, if black sheep are active here too. if control systems are tailored to small farms and if large eco-farms are hardly looked at, then the whole system is wrong.
i have to say, madam president, the successful report by mr scott is entirely in the interests of consumer protection. in fact, the safety and health of agricultural products must be a top priority. i would like to draw attention to the central importance of improving the designation of origin of foodstuffs. the origin of the raw material must be clearly indicated on each eu agricultural product. the consumer must not be misled about the labelling. for example, china: imported cores are sold in austria, where they are called 'pressed kernel oil'. or worse, fattened animals are transported across europe in undignified conditions to produce, for example, so-called 'tyrol bacon'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the greatest financial and economic crisis since the 1930s has not only hit europe hard, as we know. developing countries are particularly affected. and they're the least of it. irresponsible speculation, the greed for quick profits, especially in the anglo-saxon world, and a financial system that has gone off the rails have brought the world to the brink of financial collapse. this has been facilitated by a concept of globalisation which has made complete deregulation the paramount maxim. while in europe the countries are borrowing heavily to stimulate the economy, in many cases this is not possible for the developing countries because of their weak financial resources. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we must give the developing countries the opportunity to extricate themselves from the crisis. the traditional development aid can be considered a failure. finally, we must tackle the root causes of the problem by strictly regulating the financial markets, prohibiting speculative practices and rapidly introducing a financial transaction tax.
mr president, mr trichet, you are right. first of all, a toast to you for all you have done in the past few years! but at the same time, you have to feel how hundreds of millions of people are holding their breath right now because they're afraid of something that was not expected in this generation. the concern about the euro. first of all, we are concerned about the progress of the half-year and one-year refinancing operations and how you will manage to secure your withdrawal from this extraordinary liquidity package. only financial masochists can't wish you a happy hand. but you're worried about inflation, so you're on the right track. i warn, especially as an austrian, against the german bashing that is now emerging here. be careful, because this country has just brought so much stability. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to thank you very much, mr president, not only for the last few years but also for the way you have acted in the last few weeks: competent, independent, consistent. you and your colleagues have been a pole of calm in stormy times. commissioner rehn, the comments made in the last few days have been very encouraging. we should do everything we can to continue on the path you have chosen. the euro is an anchor of stability, even in times of crisis. we must dispel the myth that the euro and the stability and growth pact are the cause of the problems in greece and elsewhere. the greek prime minister made it very clear in this house last week that the euro is not the fault, but part of the solution. without the euro, no reform. without the euro, there is no real corset for the goals that can be set. let us not make it weak if those affected feel protected by it, not weakened by it! i would also like to add that greece is not begging for money, as one often gets the impression now when one opens the daily newspapers. it would be good if some members of the council would not be guided by domestic populism when they speak out on the matter, but would seek joint european solutions with us. greece cannot receive subsidies but wants support for the implementation of its reform and austerity plan. here again, the president of the european central bank, mr trichet, has made it very clear in his three-step plan what is possible and when. nobody said anything was impossible. we have a monetary union, but we do not have an economic union. and for economic union we need the political will of the member states and not advice. economic union includes the coordination of budgetary policies, tax harmonization, education policy, economic and social policies. the member states are called upon to do so, and we expect them to be committed to this. we must continue along this path, also in the interests of the euro!
the commission has already done so. i would like to thank you for the part of the report which warns against cutting wages too much to reduce deficits, especially as low incomes reduce economic growth. i am grateful for that sentence, because i think that not only does this reduce economic growth and thus europe's competitiveness, but it also reduces the opportunities for europeans to participate in the life and work of society. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we have a europe which no longer invests in education, health and research, we will not have a europe which is competitive and stable in the world. it cannot be those groups who bear no responsibility for the crisis who now have to bear the cost. if we do not invest in people, we will not have a future as europe! i therefore ask that the social aspect be stressed in future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the current economic and financial crisis - this structural crisis - requires sustained controls and prudent budgets. globalisation is forcing the euro area to play an effective role in fiscal policy. but this cannot be done on the backs of ordinary citizens, and i would like to make a clear call for caution and responsibility!
in writing. the european union in general and the eurozone in particular are on fire: greece is on the verge of bankruptcy, and spain or portugal are already in for the next set of problems. in view of the seriousness of the situation, new proposals are constantly emerging: the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the european parliament and the council. the european union is clearly seeking to use the current crisis to deprive the member states of fiscal sovereignty, one of the last remaining core areas of national sovereignty. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. the threatening state of monetary union, the development of the euro into a high-risk currency, is the result of the merger of countries such as germany, the netherlands or austria on the one hand, and countries such as greece, italy or spain on the other, in deliberate disregard of existing differences in economic development and fiscal ethos. these historically developed differences - not only in the economic sphere - must be taken into account, rather than tightening the already existing centralistic corset in which the european nation states are situated.
i'm working hard. on the occasion of the annual report of the european central bank, i would like to point out the worrying development of fiscal policy, namely that far too many dollars are being printed, the value of which is no longer covered. the associated current or imminent devaluation of the dollar by the united states as part of a monetary reform would also have a serious negative impact on the european market. in order to avoid this danger, the ecb and the other european institutions should seriously consider whether it would not be sensible to abandon the dollar as the main currency. the euro has long been the stronger currency, and even renowned economists, such as nobel prize winner josef stiglitz, saw the dollar's leading role as the cause of many financial crises. the european union should no longer voluntarily expose itself to the problems of us fiscal policy!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not we also rejected a previous proposal because it was a little too strongly worded. but there is a problem with some countries. the roma are being returned without the conditions being met for them to live in peace and security and in conditions that are appropriate to human dignity. we have, however, expressed this more cautiously, partly because we see that in some countries visa liberalisation is also being abused for asylum applications without the requirement being met. our text would be: to countries in the western balkans where they might face homelessness and discrimination in the areas of education, social protection and employment. i hope that the colleagues who initially rejected the other proposal will be able to agree and that this milder wording can be accepted.
mr president, i would like to ask you to take note of the rules of procedure. i am very pleased with the way the vote has now gone. but in itself it was an own-initiative report and a different procedure was agreed. it is now allowed that we can vote individually on a purely own-initiative report. we must clarify this, otherwise we shall have all the own-initiative reports with individual votes in future. could you perhaps ask the committee on constitutional affairs to clarify this matter, otherwise the whole point of the reform will be destroyed again by the interpretation given by the services of the house?
in writing. - in the merciless price competition, the margins are improved in adventurous ways. imported meat is sold as 'domestic', old meat keeps popping up, and then there's the fake ham and all that. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the labelling of genetically modified foodstuffs. it is important that animal health and hygiene rules be laid down, but in the course of the import rules it was decided not to deal with the subject of genetic engineering, which is why i abstained.
in writing. the report, drawn up by the german member of parliament, count lambsdorff, presents in a very comprehensive and competent way the various tasks and future objectives of the un from the european union's point of view. there is no doubt that the un needs to be strengthened globally and its role in the international system strengthened through appropriate reform. the reform of development cooperation which it calls for must also be supported and urgently tackled, since the current development aid policy can be considered a failure. i therefore cannot understand why the member states should now increase their contributions substantially, as the report suggests, before a reform. development aid must be re-examined and reorganized and restructured in conjunction with the developing countries. the comments on climate policy, which persistently refuse to engage in a debate with the ippc's critics and treat its findings as dogma, are also problematic. i therefore abstained from voting on the final vote.
in writing. - many of the beggars in the west come from slovakia, romania and bulgaria, and most are members of the roma minority. there have been long-standing attempts to improve the miserable social situation of the roma, who live on the margins of society in barracks or tent cities. simply pumping money into roma settlements does not work, as past experience has shown. the key to success will probably lie in education, because only it can open up long-term options for a different life. in principle, measures to combat poverty in eastern europe are useful, but those taken so far have been unsuccessful and there are no new sensible approaches. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. the resolution is unilateral in its content: subsidies and financial injections for roma in the community. of course, we must do everything we can to better integrate marginalised groups such as the roma into society and especially into the labour market. however, this integration also requires the will and effort of the roma themselves, who must first of all start by integrating their children and young people into the european school system. these aspects are not sufficiently addressed in the motion for a resolution on the roma summit, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. - i expressly support the own-initiative report on the quality policy for agricultural products (a7-0029/2010), which was voted on on 25 march 2010. there is a clear link between product quality and the origin of raw materials. the proposal for a 'place of farming' label is intended to identify the source of the raw material. i see a great opportunity here for agriculture, which stands for high-quality agricultural products. clearly labelled products not only guarantee the best quality of the product to the consumer, but also allow the consumer to make a choice based on objective and transparent criteria. quality as a key factor has a major impact on ensuring the competitiveness of eu food producers throughout the food chain. the production of high-quality food is often the only source of income in many rural areas with limited production alternatives. i therefore strongly support the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin and the reintroduction of a regulated and protected designation for products from mountain regions and areas free of genetic engineering. references to 'traditional speciality guaranteed' and 'organic farming' must be maintained.
in writing. the report stresses the central role played by the high quality of agricultural products in consumer protection. the promotion of regional, traditional products and small and medium-sized farms is also emphasized. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the biggest financial and economic crisis since the 1930s has not only hit europe hard, developing countries are particularly suffering from its effects. and that's the least you can do. irresponsible speculation, the desire for quick profits in the anglo-saxon world, unconnected with the real economy, and a financial system that has gone haywire have brought the world to the brink of financial collapse. this has been facilitated by a concept of globalisation which makes complete deregulation the paramount maxim. while in europe the countries are borrowing heavily to stimulate the economy, in the developing countries this is often not possible because of their weak financial resources. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we must give the developing countries the opportunity to extricate themselves from the crisis. the traditional development aid can be considered a failure. finally, we must tackle the root causes of the problem by strictly regulating the financial markets, prohibiting speculative practices and quickly introducing a financial transaction tax. but the problem will not be solved by a 'world government' of the kind proposed in the report, which would further disempower the peoples and states.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would first like to thank you, mr van rompuy, for your diligence in communicating with parliament. that's a good sign, including your personal commitment. but what you have to say to this parliament - you did not do it, the council did it - is deeply disappointing for us. let us look at greece in particular. if you look at the comments in the media, for example in the international herald tribune, it is rightly said: yes, greece now has the imf's strict conditions, but not its good credit. this is the result of the council. mr bini smaghi, of the european central bank, said: 'in my view, it is more democratic to solve problems through closer cooperation in europe than through a technocratic institution like the imf. and if you look at the market, the market has reacted. okay, i admit, the euro is a little bit better, but greece is not better, it's worse. the message that has come from the council is not a positive one. the council is always great at postponing matters and discussions and proposals. it 's like the titanic . after the collision with the iceberg, you say, "okay, let's set up a task force to think about how to prevent such collisions in the future", or "let's have a big discussion about the food plan for next week", after this disaster has already happened. this is not a solution! the council must find solutions! it's not your fault! it is the heads of government who are not prepared to tackle these solutions, and who are not prepared to accept new ideas - such as those put forward by european social democracy, for example - which are based on both pillars, on stability, but also on solidarity. of course, solidarity does not begin when something goes wrong, but true friends warn in time when something goes wrong. so it is also unfair to do this to greece now, after watching for years and actually knowing that something was wrong, and then say: but now you cannot count on our solidarity. the council's results with regard to greece are therefore completely unsatisfactory. the situation is similar for eu 2020. the commission's proposals had their downsides, but also their upsides. we weren't exactly thrilled because we were missing a few elements. and what does the council make of eu 2020? it's just a few pieces being torn out. you have mentioned five points, but the context, the idea that the eu 2020 will include economic, social and environmental issues, is lost, at least we see the danger. when i hear the vice president has confirmed this that some heads of government say we should deal with poverty? should we fight poverty? isn't it grotesque in today's europe that poverty and inequality are increasing? and then there are government leaders who say, "that's not an issue for us". how can we approach the citizens if we do not treat social justice as a central issue? i therefore agree with you and the vice-president of the commission: we must insist that poverty reduction - whatever the criteria - and poverty reduction remain our objectives. this is absolutely essential for us social democrats. (applause from the centre) mr van rompuy, you mentioned that this was your first formal council. they will have a second council in june. i wish you every success in this council. it will not be easy for me to look at some elections and fear that parties may come to power that are even less in favour of close cooperation in europe. i hope that the council will not be as uncertain as it was at the first formal meeting. when you need support and help, come to this parliament, especially to the socialist group! we give you hope that europe can still be good!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr swoboda, you spoke of solidarity and of informing good friends not only after the crisis has started but before it has started. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. did you not know about the situation in greece? i am also naturally concerned about the question of responsibility. who is responsible for greece's misreporting of budget figures? the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is also constant talk of new rules and solutions. they're already on the table! the problem is that the politicians, under pressure from the banks and the lobbyists, are tearing these solutions apart like swiss cheese. that is why independence in politics is so important.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! i have two preliminary remarks. first of all, as an austrian member of parliament, i would like to thank you very much for your visit to austria over the last two days and for your reply to the national members of parliament, where we had the opportunity to discuss the europe 2020 project. secondly, i should like to apologize to my colleague mr reul, who had the opportunity to speak but had to go to the committee because he had to do several things at the same time. the council has already taken a decision on this matter. but the heads of state or government lacked the courage to adopt a purely european solution. we would not have needed the imf on board with this solution. the criteria for how to make money are clear. but we must be able to act as europe itself when we have problems within the european union. we need more european solutions. my second point is europe 2020. europe 2020 is not an objective, it must become an instrument to achieve our objectives, also as a consequence of the economic and financial crisis. the europe 2020 strategy lacks the projects, lacks the clear instruments and, at the moment, lacks the political will to transform it from a goal into a reality. my third point: mr president-in-office, yes, the lisbon treaty is not enough and more intergovernmental cooperation is needed. but we do not want intergovernmental cooperation based on sarkozy and merkel, without the european parliament and without the citizens. what we have achieved with the lisbon treaty must not be lost in the way we deal with the questions of the future!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu 2020 strategy has ambitious targets and concrete figures. in addition to the fact that the lisbon strategy was already miles away from achieving these objectives - for example, in the r & d quota - the question of the usefulness of some objectives also arises. the eu 2020 strategy aims to significantly increase the academic ratio. of course we need skilled human capital, but experts are clear that we need well-trained professionals and not an inflation of university graduates who then find hardly any or only a few unsuitable jobs. the objectives are fundamentally contradictory. on the one hand, the budget must be consolidated, on the other, massive investments must be made. an interesting puzzle to solve. on the regions: studies have clearly shown that the lisbon treaty and the strategy have been successful when the regions have been systematically involved, rather than when they have been centralised. this will also be an important reference for the implementation of eu-2020.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a point of order for your information: it is nice that you congratulate us on being here today. it's been a long process, but it's our job. it's not a big deal. i just wanted to suggest that next time, you make this a little bit easier for us by getting information faster, by getting our emails answered, and knowing what can happen. then those who are not here today might be here. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have already tried to get your attention when you introduced the new regulation on one-minute speeches. you, as a pole, know what it means when there are different classes of people and deputies. i would ask that the people in the back row be taken into account when we take the floor on the rules of procedure. i would like to ask you, mr president, to make it clear that the european parliament is not the only institution in the world which is concerned with the question of the future of the european union. secondly, what will you do if - as has just happened - members are absent for whatever reason, even though they have reported? will there be any chance of a few more minutes of catch the eye? thirdly, can you tell us today, in the spirit of this new efficiency which is welcome, which 30 speakers you have planned for today?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the problem of stray dogs in romania has become topical again with the planned lifting of the ban on killing, which has been in place since 15 january 2008. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. however, the alternative now chosen, namely to house dogs in collective animal shelters, is not a solution either. the only thing that makes sense is to perform castration procedures. but that is denied. the european union should take action here as in animal welfare matters in general. it's about time. mr president, that was my one-minute performance. i wanted to use the remaining time to make clear to you again what i was going to say earlier.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to make a few comments on serbia in a minute. the eu ambitions seem to be giving serbia a boost. the country has, after all, recently formally apologised for the srebrenica genocide - which is far from the case with the controversial candidate country turkey: there is already a threat of sanctions if the armenian genocide is merely discussed in a country. the interpretation of the copenhagen criteria is, in my view, arbitrary, since belgrade has been accused of not cooperating with the hague tribunal, but ankara's human rights violations are secondary. but it is not a new thing that the union is measuring with two different standards. in bosnia, the aim is to push several ethnic groups into a multi-cultural state, whereas in kosovo it is suddenly legitimate for one ethnic group to break away from an existing state. unlike turkey, serbia is historically and spiritually and culturally part of europe and a key state for security in the balkans. of course, we must not repeat the mistakes of the hasty accession of bulgaria and romania. all the criteria for accession must be met without any doubt, but serbia is a european country and should join the union.
i have to say, madam president, it is not easy to be a fervent pro-european, especially in these days. i would like to refer today to the problem of eurostat. it turned out that eurostat knew much more about the real situation in greece than was generally known. there are reports that have been only partially published, that have exposed fraud as early as 2002, and then of course the big report in 2008. it is not clear where the reports are going, what the consequences are, or who can be held responsible for this - in this case, for not acting. i would therefore like to encourage people to deal with eurostat in a constructive way, rather than in the way that has been done in recent years with regard to the scandalous practices at eurostat. so i would urge the commission to take action to ensure the independence of eurostat and to provide the citizens with the data we so badly need to revolutionize democracy.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like to start by thanking mr szájer for the very high quality report because we in the commission appreciate very much the support parliament has indicated for the horizontal approach to the delegated acts. the legislator, of course, is entirely free to regulate all questions related to delegated acts in each basic act, but some guidelines are needed in order to avoid a piecemeal approach. this was the purpose of the communication the commission made already in december to indicate to the legislator what would be the preferred course of action for having a good and practical approach to the future legislation. i would like to underline that the commission strongly supports the idea of common understanding or even interinstitutional agreement between the three institutions on the delegated acts because this will bring necessary order into the preparation of the legislation. on the substance, i can just reiterate that the commission very much welcomes the report. we might disagree on some specific questions but our objectives are the same. we want to see precision, efficiency, transparency and a clear and fair balance of power. if you would allow me to be a little bit more specific, i will just make some telegraphic comments on some particular parts of the report. regarding the limitative nature of article 290, especially the second paragraph, here we have a slight difference of opinion with regard to the means of control of the legislator over the delegated acts, but we would not like to enter into the legal controversy because what we think that it is very important to look for the practical solutions as regards specific legislation. regarding the duration of the delegation of power, here we very much welcome and support the idea of tacit renewal, as expressed in the report, because we found it very constructive and we can say that some solutions of this nature have already been found in several legislative files. i have another specific comment on the duration of the right of objection. here, again, i would say that we are singing from the same hymn sheet because we also largely share the opinion of the rapporteur for the standard formulation of two months, with a possibility of extension for an additional two months, which could be fixed in a common understanding among our three institutions, which, hopefully, we will have in the future. i think we have already seen something like 10 positive examples of how this was applied in the current legislative work. regarding the urgency procedure, here we already had some clear examples in the past that there are issues as regards food safety or safety of toys, for instance, that sometimes call for a very urgent procedure and, therefore, we think that we have to find something even more urgent than the early approval proposition made by the rapporteur. if you allow me to conclude on the alignment, because this is very important for parliament, here again we would advocate the pragmatic approach because this parliament, together with the commission, has already done considerable work as regards the alignment of more than 250 basic legislative acts, which have been aligned under the pragmatic approach. now we think that the priority should lie in the areas in which we have not, until now, aligned to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny before entry into force of the lisbon treaty. i think that we should focus on them. again, it would be an enormous amount of work, but we are already reflecting on how we can approach it in the most pragmatic and flexible way.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. these often underestimated structural issues of the relationship in the institutional triangle have been summed up really well by mr szájer in this report. it was a very, very good cooperation, and i would like to thank you very much for it. we have created new conditions through the treaty of lisbon and these new conditions must not be re-introduced through the back door. that is the central point. the purpose behind this was to establish the same level of cooperation between the european parliament and the council also in the case of delegated acts and to ensure that this is also feasible in the procedure and guaranteed. that is why the most important issues for us are that the conditions are created, for example in the form that we have the documents and documents at our disposal in a really clear and timely manner to take the necessary decisions, and secondly that there is no common understanding for certain processes, but that we have agreements that are fixed and that cannot be subject to political arbitrariness or political day-to-day business. we need to have good, solid rules to protect parliament's rights in practice, not just in theory. i am glad that the commission has taken this opportunity to make a statement on the situation in the community.
i have to say, madam president, as a fervent pro-european, i was opposed to the lisbon treaty precisely because it makes possible arguments such as those we have just heard, precisely because it did not create the clarity and unambiguity that i would like above all for the future generations. but i'm also a realist and i say we live with it now. it is very important to emphasize once again that it is precisely article 290 that allows the interpretation that not only the council but also parliament can revoke the delegation in question independently and in a relatively simple way. we shall have to remind ourselves of this on occasion. but of course what mr leinen said is also true, namely that we are already dealing with thousands of legal acts, which are situated in a grey area of comprehensibility, which in turn is constantly throwing water on the mills of the anti-europeans, the opponents of a european project, an eu which should work where we urgently need it. this is again very much about transparency. i therefore think it is very important that paragraph 10 should suggest that the rules governing the transmission of documents should be clarified. not many of us know the freedom of information act, not many of us are familiar with the practices in the united states. why not simply copy and paste and enable citizens and us members of parliament to obtain the relevant documents independently and not by charity and only after massive intervention by political groups? why do we not make this law, when we are already taking the high risk of thousands of delegated acts? in this sense, i wish you a happy creation. we shall be supporting this constructively on the road to the democratic revolution.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. parliament took a great deal of initiative when it came to drawing up this blacklist, and in a responsible way, namely in a way that ensures the greatest possible safety for consumers. however, and this is also the subject now, it is necessary to clarify whether we have really succeeded in doing so sufficiently well at the present stage. the first question i would like to ask is this: information is available on the internet, but it is not always so easy for the different airlines. i tried it myself. it is not always immediately available, for example when it comes to connecting flights which subsequently fly to a third country. the second question that remains, and i would be interested in knowing, is what is the experience of wet leasing? there was a great deal of concern that this could become a gateway for companies that were not entirely reliable. did something come out of that positive or negative? thirdly, and this is very important, has this blacklisting had a deterrent effect on airlines, so that they - especially those outside europe - have been more careful in their compliance with safety regulations? and how does the selective approval of a few aircraft by certain airlines, which are only allowed to bring some of their aircraft to europe, work?
i have to say, madam president, i would like to make a general comment and then two or three questions, depending on how much time you allow me. the general comment is as follows: i think it is almost bizarre that in the present situation we as a social democratic group have been given a total of nine minutes in three air safety reports. of course there is this special session tomorrow, but i think it is time that this house took a closer look at matters which really concern people and perhaps backed off a little in artificially enhanced debates. the commissioner, on the question itself, said that the most important thing for me was: what about these code-share flights, these flights which are operated by a european airline but which can be operated by any other airline, even those on a blacklist? what is happening here to inform the people who have to fly? that's a question that's been burning in my mind, and i would expect you to answer it. i'll stick with this one question.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between the ccipb and ryanair on the basis of the 2005 aviation guidelines was concluded on the basis of the same principles as the one concluded between ryanair and ams. the athletes concerned often speak excellent english, but it is often not easy to understand a complex subject in a jargon of another language. member states then seek expert opinions from the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would ask that the draft regulations on vital matters for air sportsmen be made available in german and french, the other two working languages.
i have to say, madam president, i have to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos. at that moment, while you were calling him or while he was actually here, hans-peter martin passed by our place. in response to our humorous question as to whether he had overslept his speech, mr martin took a stand, clapped his hands together and saluted with the hitler salute. madam president, this is unacceptable, it is a serious breach of the house's morals under rule 9 and i therefore ask you to call for order against this inappropriate and unacceptable behaviour. i would also ask you to check whether this behaviour can be documented in the records in this context. it's unbearable. even if it is meant to be a so-called humorous provocation, jokes of this kind have lost nothing in this house!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. in the field of european aviation security and aviation security fees, we are currently in a situation where everyone is doing what he wants. nobody's really doing it right. but then we'll have to pay for it. this is something that is not acceptable, and this report aims to change things. what is he changing and what does he want to change? i should like to say at once that on almost all points - and i thank my colleagues - there is a unanimous view that the report seeks to create more transparency. transparency means that airlines in the future should be able to get the information they need to understand what is really being imposed on them by airports in terms of security charges, what it is for, whether it is too much - which is still sometimes happening - and, as a next step, that passengers can also understand what the airlines are imposing on them. i suspect that the airlines are sometimes deliberately restricted in their transparency, even though they are making a great effort to do so, as they say. the following is an important point: there are different systems across europe for financing security facilities. there are states that have financed this purely through taxes. there are countries where the final consumer pays exclusively, and there are countries with a mixed system. our intention was to ensure that these systems could be maintained. we do not want to dictate to any member state how security charges should be financed, we just want to ensure that those who pay know what they have paid in the end. there are, or have been, different views on which airports should be included, and we have chosen to do so because of the security aspect. it's not about merit and it's not about profit, it's about safety. and so we decided that all commercial airports should be included, and i think that was the right decision, too. finally, we have reached a point on which there is a very strong consensus in the house, namely that we should make a distinction between the charges for security devices, security measures which are included in the eu regulatory framework, and charges for security measures which go beyond that, the so-called more stringent measures. we say that whatever falls within the eu framework, it stays as it is; i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. but if security measures are taken in addition, then these member states will have to finance them themselves. on the one hand, this is to ensure that it is handled with care, that not every security measure is taken immediately without considering whether it is really necessary, that it is also considered what this means for passengers, what it means for airlines and airports. on the other hand, it should also be ensured that a principle is also implemented in this matter, namely that security is also a public task. the attacks on airlines are not usually aimed at the airlines, but at the countries from which the airlines come, and that is why we also believe that in principle security is still a public matter and must therefore be publicly financed. i would like to say a few words about the proposals which have reached an incredibly high number - three in all - and i think they are all very justified and well founded. i would say that the two green motions in particular are very much worth supporting, not because mrs lichtenberger is sitting next to me, but because they include social conditions for airport staff. i think this is very important, especially in times when airlines and airports are under pressure.
member of the commission. − madam president, the proposal for a directive on aviation security charges is the result of the debate on financing aviation security which has been on the table since 2001. it follows on from the rising security costs observed subsequent to the terrorist attacks on 11 september 2001, and from the establishment of an eu regulatory framework for aviation security. by its legislative proposal, the commission intends to set up a transparent and non-discriminatory framework for levying aviation security charges in europe. furthermore, the commission considers that aviation security charges should be set in consultation with airport users and should be cost-related. i would like to congratulate mr leichtfried for his fantastic work on this report and also to thank the members of the tran committee who also contributed to this report. i believe that the report goes precisely in the direction of the commission’s intended goals, and i welcome the support it gives to the commission’s proposal in those regards. i would just like to emphasise two specific issues which are dealt with in the report. firstly, the report introduces what is really a new element, namely the important and sometimes very controversial question of who pays for aviation security. well, the commission’s proposals did not address this issue, and the reason is that nearly all member states insist that they are not in a position to take commitments in that regard, even though they acknowledge that public financing of aviation security should be permitted. the choice, in our view, should therefore be left to the individual member states, and thus be dealt with through subsidiarity. with this in mind, and with respect to the position outlined in the report up for adoption, the commission would like to note that amendment 32, which would oblige member states to finance more stringent measures, will give rise to intense discussions with the council on this proposed directive. but i am confident that the rapporteur knew all this, and expected this fight with the council. the second issue is more for clarification, and relates to the impact assessment to be undertaken in advance of any further aviation security measures being taken under the framework regulation. this is definitely a very justified measure but i would like you to know that we already have some mechanisms in place and we should not overburden ourselves. first there is the stakeholders’ advisory group on aviation security which consists of air transport industry representatives among others, and it is fully involved in the conception of any proposed measures on aviation security. secondly, the regulatory procedure with scrutiny ensures that parliament can exercise its right of veto if it deems appropriate. thank you very much for this excellent report. we look forward very much to working with the rapporteur and the parliament and to further progress on this issue.
i have to say, madam president, i am sorry to disturb the house, but under rule 151 i feel obliged to make a personal remark. i was approached earlier. it's so typical when you live in austria. there is a group that, by international standards, is considered to be on the far right. they have party leaders who make some sort of gesture in the air and say nothing afterwards. these are also people who cannot bear to be defeated in democratic elections, but then refuse any form of handshake or contact. if you wave at them, they can only tell one thing, namely, that they have real experience in the hitler salute. these are problems, of course, which simply show that my country has unfortunately not yet succeeded in working through the past, that we are not dealing with just one right-wing party, which already has representatives, but soon with two. i just want to make it clear again: we are the democrats. that's the far right over there. and i am proud to be a member of a political group which has managed to make a decisive contribution to the fact that we do not yet have a far-right group in this parliament and hopefully never will. the answer is more democracy and not more right-wing radicalism, anti-humanism and cynical contempt for humanity. these are the gentlemen who have already wanted me in the psychiatric ward because they can't stand losing elections in a democratic way.
the commission has already done so. the impact of the volcanic ash cloud on european airspace, which is known to have caused the cancellation of tens of thousands of flights, is particularly indicative of the importance of aviation safety. there is already a heated debate about who should pay for the costs, who should pay for the natural disaster, so to speak, and how the blockades are justified. while the transport ministers are racking their brains about this, we must decide what costs can be imposed on passengers in connection with the increasingly restrictive anti-terrorist security regulations. finally, the costs of a state task, namely the maintenance of public security, cannot simply be passed on to the citizen. it is only by making the countries themselves pay for the strict security measures that we can prevent the proliferation of body scanners and other rather bizarre security measures. while we are still struggling with the swift agreement, the us is concluding agreements on passenger data exchange with the eu commission and the various aviation organisations in the name of counter-terrorism. the discussion also ignores the fact that the shortage of air traffic controllers and their increasing workload could have a fatal impact on aviation safety. in any case, since the liberalisation of the 1990s and the vision of a single european airspace, the focus seems to be on cost rather than safety. the pilots' strike was postponed by the ash cloud, that's for sure. it is ironic that we should hope that we do not get into another air traffic chaos.
i have to say, madam president, as air safety charges are handled very differently within the eu, i think it is important that an objective criterion is applied here. as a basis for calculation, a combination of the number of passengers and the maximum take-off weight would be quite useful. however, it is important that there is a concrete link between the security charge levied and the services actually provided. it's important to define aviation safety in itself, and you also have to know exactly what you're paying for. it must be clear how the security charges are calculated precisely. information on the amount and composition of fees shall be disclosed. the principle of transparency applies. in any event, independent supervisory authorities are necessary to counter any distortions of competition quickly and efficiently.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. after all this praise, i'm a little embarrassed, so i'll be brief. but i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs who have worked so hard together: mr zasada, mrs hennis-plasschaert, mrs lichtenberger, mr kohlíček. we've been working hard on this stuff for almost a year now. i think that is the way i see european politics, and not as the delivery of show-stopping, contentious material, as some of my colleagues may be doing. secondly, i would like to address the council and make an appeal to it. the committee on transport is actually a very peaceful committee, a committee which works objectively and argues objectively, and in this sense we have very much met the council with this law. we've been very accommodating from the beginning. but i would caution the council against waking sleeping dogs. if you're willing to compromise, then you have to be able to expect compromises from your opponent, your partner. if the council is not at all prepared to approach the european parliament now, then the attitude of this committee will change. that's not just my opinion. i have heard from some colleagues that if the council is not prepared to talk to us, then we will have a very different discussion about body scanners and perhaps not be prepared to talk to the council either. this is something that is not in the spirit of the whole and that does not necessarily have to happen. that is why i appeal to the council, to the member states: move! we now have the treaty of lisbon. they both have to move, otherwise it could be "come on, let's swift again!"
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the transeuropean networks are a subject which concerns this house and should concern even more. we are now at a revision stage and some - such as mr silvestris - have wondered why the greens are putting forward proposals to amend the list of transeuropean networks or what is included in it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this famous flight route now i'm talking like mr stoiber, i think it's contagious, it's very dangerous we don't want to build anymore; we could have built a pipeline to munich airport. that is why we are proposing it. but i think that in general we should pay particular attention to the revision of the transeuropean networks, and we should take into account one point which is particularly important to me: there is a study by a dutchman - i will gladly present it to the commissioner if he is present - which is very relevant to me for the future debate and which shows that the costs of a major project - and they are very often major projects - are usually underestimated by an average of 45% and the benefits are always overestimated, because that is what is needed to implement the project. this means that we must completely rethink the cost calculation of transeuropean projects, and i urge you to do so. it is our responsibility to give our citizens clear and good information.
i have to say, madam president, i like it a little better when you're not in a faction. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities. the brenner base tunnel is part of the berlin-palermo high-speed railway and the trans-european networks programme and is to cross the innsbruck-bozen axis. the current situation is such that the eu is leaving austria, tyrol, northern italy and southern germany hanging in the air, and there is a danger that the tunnel will become a grave of billions. the original cost estimate of €4.5 billion in 2002 has long since been blown, and experts expect increased construction costs of around €16 billion. the financing is still unclear. the project is to be funded partly by the member states involved and partly by the eu. the eu, however, refuses to make a legally binding commitment for the period after 2013, leaving the countries in question hanging in the air. but that's not all. the tunnel is designed to be used by a large number of people, and this requires the construction of additional access roads. the catchment area extends from munich in the north to verona in the south, although the financing is still not entirely clear on the italian side. i would therefore like to make the following appeal: when ten projects are launched, they must not be insufficiently planned and the member states involved must then bear the costs. the eu has to cover at least 50% of the costs and the planning and commitments have to be advanced accordingly.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur, mr simpson, and at the same time express my regret that he cannot be with us today. but we'll get there. i would particularly like to congratulate the commission on the attitude it has taken in these guidelines, which is to leave things essentially as they are. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this will certainly be fulfilled. the second point i would like to make is that it should also provide an indication for the future when we decide again what is really in the ten system and what is not. we can have the discussion as it is sometimes held. some people argue vigorously for linking a boot to an island, others say it shouldn't be in there at all. but that is the wrong approach. we should look at what is more beneficial to the european union and to the european taxpayers. and this is clearly something that should be supported where member states are already taking action, where something is happening. it is then that it really happens, and not just some tens plans which are never implemented, but that europeans, passengers and the member states who are committed to finally moving transport from road to rail benefit.
i have to say, madam president, the baltic-adriatic corridor is now, as we know, regaining the importance it had before the break-up of the danube monarchy, thanks to the opening up to the east and the integration of central europe. the eu has already confirmed the importance of the baltic-adriatic axis by giving priority to the northern part of gdansk in the czech republic. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the railway infrastructure in the community. it is in this network, which carries about half of all goods and people, that a dangerous needlehole must be defused. only the so-called coral tunnel can remove this needlehole, this obstacle, in a sustainable way. the people along the transit routes, as we all know, are paying a high, rising price for the increased traffic. only the complete development of this southern corridor can lead to a shift from road to rail which would not be expected from any other infrastructure measure in austria.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to know whether there are any meetings in the house on thursdays, whether committees such as stoa and others can meet, whether interpreters are available for meetings and whether groups of visitors can also be received in the house on thursdays.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. safety is everything. the risk of a fully manned aircraft having an engine failure and possibly crashing into a populated area is intolerable. i remember that british airways flight in 1982 which flew through such a cloud of ash on its way to new zealand, and particularly a serious incident involving a klm 747 in 1989 which flew through an already widely dispersed cloud of volcanic ash. both narrowly escaped disaster. human lives are priceless. i welcome the decision to close the airspace in this crisis and thus to relieve pilots of their responsibility for the people entrusted to their care. test and measurement flights were carried out, but all only up to a certain altitude and in sight. the results of the analysis were hardly conclusive. as regards the visual flights, it should be noted that in the case of klm the ash cloud was there, but not visible. nature teaches us respect and at the same time shows us the limits of globalisation. we are all very aware of the serious economic consequences. however, the value of a human life is greater than the value of economic goods. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have seen and experienced the alternatives to air travel in europe in the last few days, on the one hand by car from belgrade to vienna and then by train from vienna to strasbourg. although there are problems on the roads, they are relatively well developed, even in the neighbouring regions. the situation on the railway, however, is still terrible and very bad. this is not acceptable. where would we be today if we had implemented the plans of the so-called delors plan? we would have the transeuropean networks, we would have more high-speed roads and we would have more efficient trains. within hours, the toilets on the train were no longer usable, even though it was a modern car, because many people had to stand for hours or sit on the floor, and so the trains were naturally crowded and overloaded. i therefore ask the commissioner to really see to it that we give a new impetus to the modernisation of the railways in the sense of more high-speed trains and also of capacity reserves. we need some reserves. we have also found that in winter, and not just during the great disaster of the volcanic eruption, we have too few reserves and that economic efficiency alone is not enough. the supply side must also be emphasized more.
mr president, commissioner, president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think that the european union and the member states have responded to this crisis in a satisfactory way, within the limits of what is possible. they have acted on the principle of 'safety first'. it is debatable whether these clouds could have been studied sooner. i think that would have been possible, but in principle it's all right. but what we are discussing now and what we have to think about is what happens to the people, the europeans, who are stranded. i got three calls from people in this situation yesterday. in one case, a family sitting at the airport in thailand was informed that the flight was due to leave on 29 april. these people are going to be at the airport for a whole week. the second case is about young people in new york who were told that they were not allowed to leave their hotel for at least a week now because they could be picked up at any time. the third case is a retired family on an island in the north sea who can no longer afford to stay and still have to stay. these are things we have to think about and discuss in the european parliament. we must offer solutions to these people, we must make suggestions and we must support them. we cannot leave our europeans in this situation alone - they must be helped!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the commission! thank you for being here in such large numbers today, which i cannot say for many of my colleagues. i'm ashamed to say that not everyone who isn't here is here. because they're already there, but they're not here, where they should be. that's very sad. since we do not have a joint resolution, we will pass on our individual points to you and you can examine them in detail. mr president, we agree with you that it is a question of competitiveness and social security in a europe of sustainability. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but how is this to be done in times of budgetary consolidation? because of course we have to consolidate the budgets. but this can only be done - and i ask the commission to ensure that it is done - in moderation and in a time-scale which does not negate the other objectives which are necessary, namely the fight against unemployment and poverty. the fact that the roma summit was held in cordoba recently, and that you were not present, but two members of the commission were present - the vice-president and the commissioner for social affairs - is an opportunity for me to say how important this issue is. i recently saw roma settlements in serbia. it's unbelievable that such a thing exists in europe. i ask the commission to do everything in its power to combat this problem of poverty and unemployment in a really serious way. i come to the next point in connection with budgetary consolidation: we need more investment. we discussed this with vice-president kallas this morning: we have not invested enough, for example, in transeuropean networks. today we see where we have problems because we are still behind on what was then drawn up in the so-called delors plan. i would like to ask you, mr president of the commission, when you speak of partnership, to say that we need this partnership, particularly as regards the budgetary question and future budget planning, because we are already seeing in detail how the council intends to cut budgets at european level. we cannot afford to be like that. mr president, you have mentioned the monti report. it is certainly an important report and it is also good that you have entrusted it to mr monti, who is certainly an expert in this field. but when we talk about the common market, we have to talk about the social market economy. and that is where public services are particularly important to us. you have promised that you will put forward proposals for a framework directive. we do not want to go into all the details here, but i believe that we must count on these public services for european identity, especially in view of the transport problems we have seen and which show how important public rail services are, for example. it is secondary whether they are provided by private or public authorities, but they must be regulated and safeguarded above all by a common european policy on public services. i come to the last and decisive point: you have spoken of the economic crisis and also of greece and other countries in a crisis situation. we have already stated in our last discussions with mr van rompuy that what the european council has done in this case was not a european high-level achievement. if this had been done two or three months ago, greece would have been spared the high interest payments. you've indicated that, but i think we need more than indications. we need the strong voice of the commission to demand these things. i agree with you. it is not a question of intervening - because this is often misunderstood - when the crisis has already occurred and the deficits have become unmanageable. the point is that this should be prevented as far as possible by appropriate monitoring of economic and budgetary developments. i am already hearing governments say: no, no, you cannot see our statistics and our budgetary planning! this is not acceptable. if we want to prevent what has happened in the last few months and years, then we must do this. why does a government have to hide its statistics and its budgetary development? of course, it has a margin of manoeuvre, it must have a margin of manoeuvre, but, particularly in the eurozone, the margin of manoeuvre must be such that it is consistent with european objectives, with european directions. mr president, we are ready for the special partnership you mentioned. but this partnership must be based on a strong position of parliament, but also of the commission. we are still negotiating the framework agreement these days. it does regulate some of the details, but the spirit behind it is what counts. and that means that if some heads of government want to abuse the treaty of lisbon to strengthen their position, you must also say clearly: no, the treaty of lisbon is to strengthen europe! we need a strong voice from the commission. we will then go along with you and support you even if we have different opinions on some details. but we must both fight for a strong europe. it is very important, especially in these days, in view of the behaviour of some heads of government.
in writing. the commission's 2010 work programme, which has now been presented, contains the usual common terms and phrases on 14 pages. it is right that europe must respond to the crisis together. the crisis, however, was only able to have such a negative impact on europe because of the commission's policy of unlimited liberalization in all areas. yet, they don't want to change anything. on the contrary, i am. the further reduction of trade barriers that the commission wants to force on us is fuelling globalisation, favouring corporations and harming states and their citizens. the europe 2020 strategy is intended to respond to the current crisis. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline of the member states is maintained. the new commission tax plans for the revision of the energy taxation directive, which would tax energy products according to their energy content, are to be rejected, as climate change, which is largely a natural phenomenon, has not been tackled by a pure focus on co2. the european economy is also coming under even more pressure than its competitors in the americas and asia, which have no plans to take any initiatives in this area.
in writing. the commission's work programme for 2010 sets good and right priorities. in addition to modernising the way it works, which will be crucial to boosting the economy, and to involving europeans more closely, the commission is focusing on tackling the financial crisis. the eu must provide a new perspective as soon as possible, especially for those eu citizens who have lost their jobs in the current crisis. as the epp's environmental spokesman, i am also concerned in this context to create as many sustainable jobs as possible and to create added value on the labour market through europe's leadership in environmental protection. in order to make the transition to a new and sustainable industrial age, we must no longer see job creation and comprehensive environmental protection as opposites. the commission's approach is still a little too reserved for me. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. there is a lot that can be done by better implementation of existing regulations.
in writing. it is now time to take an interim assessment of the aid to haiti. we must ask ourselves, above all, how fast and how effective the aid was or is. -is the aid for the sustainable development of haiti? - how was this coordinated? -how was the eu represented in this context in terms of external policy? i am particularly interested in the last two questions, especially since the devastating earthquakes in haiti were a first test for the high representative. the purpose of the high representative's office is to strengthen the eu as a global player. however, ashton did not bother to come to the scene shortly after the earthquake to make a symbolic act of support, nor did she manage to coordinate the aid to haiti: member states have either individually or jointly set up aid actions, ashton would have been responsible for getting better coordination. and the haitian government itself has been under-involved. the high representative should now become aware of her role and make constructive proposals for structuring humanitarian and financial assistance in disasters. there's a lot of building work to be done over the next few months, including for mrs. ashton.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission! the centre for european studies, greece, the eu 2020 strategy, the search for answers to the financial and economic crisis, clearly show us that we are very quickly reaching the limits of the possibilities of the existing treaties in terms of the necessary measures, and that on the other hand some member states, instead of looking to europe, are fleeing to a new intergovernmentalism and nationalism and protectionism. what are you going to do to overcome these problems, to define the necessary community objectives and to create credible european instruments so that we can act and give the right answers?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. in madrid, commissioner olli rehn proposed a package which has not yet been adopted, but which was discussed at the very beginning of the sanctions debate. i do not think we should start the discussion with sanctions against the member states - that would be to put the horse on the back foot - but we must define the common objectives, the common projects and the common instruments we need in addition to the existing ones, and only then should we discuss sanctions for non-solidarity behaviour. what is your position on this shift in emphasis?
my question relates to the volcanic eruption, which will of course have an impact on the fine dust and co2 emissions. do you think it is possible to evaluate the particulate matter pollution to be taken into account in the future in order not to jeopardize jobs? our particulate matter directives have very restrictive provisions on this.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i would like to speak in spanish, at least the first part. i would also like to acknowledge the progress made in the negotiations since the beginning of the presentation of mr salafranca's report and what we have achieved now. i think it was a good process because you accepted several of our positions, although i must say that, of course, if it were a report written by the greens it would be different, but that is the case in this parliament. when you, mr salafranca, said that you wanted to see the relationship between the european union and latin america as a relationship between equals, i must say that i like this idea, but the problem is who are these equals: are they the governments, which are also different, or are they the peoples, the people, who ask for more information, who ask for more rights - like women - or who ask for the fight against poverty? that is something that needs to be defined and which i find a little lacking in that report yet. but i admit that we have achieved some things. i am also glad that the greens have managed to include the rights of indigenous peoples, a proposal which came from the committee on development, cultural rights. the femicide aspect, a very serious aspect of violence against women, has also been included, as has the decision of the inter-american court of human rights. i think these are great breakthroughs. and also climate change, which, yes, affects the people equally, the people, on both continents, for example, with what is happening to the glaciers. there is one thing that we do not agree on, and that is that we do not want to continue with the association agreements as they have been until now. with the andean community we would prefer to have an agreement with the whole andean community bloc, a broad agreement, and not just with two countries like colombia and peru. i would like to end with a specific question to mrs ashton: i will continue in english. this is a concrete question to you, high representative, and one that unfortunately we were not able to include in the report. will you speak out against mega-projects like the dam at del monte on the river shingu in brazil, which is being planned at the moment and which will destroy swathes of living space for the indigenous peoples and is also not the best solution in terms of energy consumption? there is a protest under way in brazil, in which hundreds of civil society organisations are participating. there are also legal proceedings under way in brazil. i would like to know from you what the commission, and what you as high representative, are doing to preserve the environment in the amazon area for the peoples living there, and for all of us on this planet.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union and latin america have had a bi-regional strategic partnership since 1999. the respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the right to education are fundamental pillars of this partnership. the fact is that this fundamental principle is often violated. in addition, some 42 million people in latin america are illiterate. the european union is both a major investor and a major trading partner of latin america. in conclusion, i would like to say that the continued social disadvantage of women and discrimination against indigenous groups - to mention only two problematic points - is contrary to universal human rights. there's still a lot of work to be done here, and a lot of improvements to be made.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after more than 300 years of colonial domination, after the continent became a theater of the cold war, latin america has now become an emerging world region. the fact that russian president medvedev has visited central and south america, for example, proves that he is trying to strengthen economic ties with south america. it also shows how right the eu is in its course of strengthening relations with this continent, which has more inhabitants than the eu-27. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu is not only the main investor or the main or second most important trading partner, but also the main donor of development aid. we are already an important factor from a financial point of view, and i think we should take advantage of this pole position in the european-latin american sense.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i have to say, madam commissioner, i also thank you for the report. it's like this: a dictator or a president who acts dictatorially is overthrown. the new one is cheering and rejoicing over the democracy it brings to its subjects. in a few months he is in the same position, so that it is actually believed that democracy has been restored only so that the son or other members of the family can be distributed the corresponding bounties. we hope that this is not another of the cycles we have seen, but that rosa otunbajewa will bring a different attitude. her past, her attitude, which she has shown many times, are evidence of this. but evidence is not enough, we want real evidence. if she does not want to suffer the same fate as her predecessors, she must take a different attitude, she must see that she gives help to the people in the country. i hope the newly elected president will be so wise that he does not try to sow new divisions but that he really tries to live in peace in his exile and give the kyrgyz people a chance for democratic development. unfortunately, what i have described in brief is not the case only in kyrgyzstan. we have similar conditions in other countries. we wish the representative of kazakhstan every success in his task on behalf of the osce. but conditions in kazakhstan are not so ideal. and when i think of uzbekistan and other countries, there is no such thing. that is to say, the question of how we can promote democracy there - we cannot bring it, it is not a commodity that we simply bring and deliver, but it must be created in these countries - is certainly a question that we must pursue further. because this is a very sensitive area, as mr brok has already said. mr morel is doing a good job as special representative, but that alone is not enough for us. i would remind you that under the german presidency, with frank-walter steinmeier in particular, a central asia strategy was developed, of which little has been heard of recently. i would ask you to take this up again, to make this strategy a real strategy of stability for this region. it is not just about energy supply from turkmenistan to kazakhstan. it is also a question of stability, of political stability in a region very close to afghanistan. we know very well that the situation in some countries - uzbekistan, etc. - is very fragile and very problematic. of course, ultimately it is a question of humanity, because every single victim should be avoided. in this sense, we need a new approach to a central asian strategy with the various elements of economy, democracy and humanity. i would ask you to use the kyrgyzstan case as an opportunity to renew this central asian strategy and give it a new impetus.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we know that in 2005, when the tulip revolution took place, there were hopes that things would finally change, with the arrival of a new president who would take the needs and interests of the people seriously in the sense of democracy, of having a say. unfortunately, it turns out he didn't, and now he's been through the same thing that happened to his predecessor. the european union must now make a major contribution to this. mrs ashton, you said - and i applauded it - that you had sent special envoy morel to the region immediately. i think that was meaningful and helpful. but it is equally necessary that the eu now - and i hope this will happen at the council next monday - revise its central asia strategy in such a way that it can actually have an impact. my question is, how do you plan to address this? how do you want to support the process of drafting a constitution to be a truly comprehensive one, involving all people, as you have proposed? we must help to bring about cooperation in this region and in kyrgyzstan itself, rather than confrontation. i think this is important for the future of the whole region and beyond.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when the soviet union collapsed in the early 1990's, some thought that young democracies would develop almost by themselves. today we know that these young states carry with them huge blasts from the soviet era. the differences of the peoples were largely suppressed during soviet rule, which is why there are so many religious and cultural conflicts in these states today. democracy is not something that is built overnight, and certainly not when corrupt clans enrich themselves at the expense of the country and its citizens. the snipers who fired into the crowd in bishkek are rumoured to be uzbek and tajik mercenaries. so there is an attempt to start an international conflict that could endanger the whole of central asia. the european union's foreign policy should help to defuse the situation, but military presence is the wrong way to go, as can be seen in the german operation in afghanistan. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. the fight against corruption must be the priority, the local clans must be removed from power! only then - and only then - will democracy in central asia have a real chance.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as if it were not embarrassing enough that information was leaked in the middle of the negotiations on the economic and free trade agreement (ceta), there is also the accusation that canada is being forced to adapt its copyright laws to us and eu standards under the ceta and acta. the ceta agreement seems to point to strong privatisation, deregulation and restructuring. the aim is to prohibit municipalities from applying specific local or ethnic procurement policies. of course, it makes sense to put out larger contracts, and of course there must be rules to prevent corruption and cronyism from having a happy beginning. if our local communities are already complaining that they are not allowed to use socially committed entrepreneurs, but are forced to favour dominant corporations, it is all the more incomprehensible why this is being imposed on other countries. and if multinational companies can sue governments for environmental and health policy decisions in their own lawsuits thanks to free trade agreements, then at the latest it is clear that the european union has apparently learned too little from the past financial and economic crisis and continues the erroneous path of neoliberalism. the eu must stop this aberration and become a bulwark against globalisation, if it is to be truly there for its citizens, as it is repeatedly said in sunday speeches, and must also stand by friendly powers such as canada.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i wonder why i always feel i have to suspect the commission of not really wanting to transport things to the european parliament. and so it is with the free trade agreement being negotiated with canada. i would like to join the criticism of those who have said that there are certain suspicions, particularly as regards what mr higgins has mentioned, and i agree with him completely. i think trade agreements are a good thing when they serve the common welfare of both sides, not when they serve almost exclusively the interests of a few large multinational companies. and when you get information that health, education, or public safety is suddenly going to be the subject of trade agreements, that they're going to be deregulated and privatized, i suspect that this is again only benefiting a few and contributing to the harm of many others. i would like to warn those who want to bring these things to us, bypassing the european parliament, into such agreements. the second thing i want to address is this: when you negotiate and meet with an old partner, as canada is, you have to address some things that are not so pleasant. i think that in such a conversation and in such an agreement the question of the slaughter of cattle should also be raised. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animals are not killed, and that the animals are not killed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as a member of the eu-canada delegation, i would like to emphasise that canada and the eu share common values. our common values are the foundation, are fundamental to the shaping of our society. we should make greater use of this common base to share responsibility in reshaping global conditions. the close historical and cultural ties and our respect for multilateralism, including adherence to the united nations charter, are the foundations of our partnership. we must improve and strengthen our relations at all levels, including, of course, the political level. the agreement we are discussing today will be the first time we have dealt with an agreement based on the new treaty. the commission must know this. transparency and cooperation and the involvement of parliament are prerequisites for the successful adoption of this agreement. there are two main issues that have been raised. the unilateral visa regime for our czech citizens is intolerable and must be abolished. canada's criticism of the strict regulations on the marketing of seal products shows that it is not we, but canada, that needs to change. but we also have the aim that with the eu-canada agreement we will create a stronger space together than the nafta area. this is not just about economic cooperation, but it is also a clear signal against protectionism. it is a beautiful coincidence that the eu-canada summit is taking place on the same day that joe biden is speaking in the european parliament in brussels, because we want to have efficient professional cooperation with both parts of the north american continent and because we want to take on more responsibility in the world together.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to point out a very difficult problem in the enforcement of intangible property rights in these negotiations. critical voices from canadian law professors and harvard have said that the proposed agreement amounts to a complete overhaul of canadian copyright, patent and trademark law. canadians feel limited in their sovereignty and in their own intellectual capital. on the other hand, of course, precise and strict rules on copyright protection and the extension of the protection of audiovisual performances - that is to say, films - are very, very important. it is particularly important to me that the internet be included in the enforcement of intangible property rights. the internet makes it impossible to ensure the protection of intangible property on the internet without crossborder agreements. i am also in favour of a clear ban on camcorder recordings in cinemas; this should be enforced against canada. but you have to find a middle ground here. yes to protecting intangible rights on the one hand, but no to total surveillance and tracking on the internet. it is also important to note that canada has a different legal tradition and legal system. a very difficult path. i hope we find a good way here.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the most important thing is that we should be committed to small and mediumsized enterprises. this is particularly true in an economic crisis. these enterprises account for two thirds of the workforce and generate 80% of tax revenue. it is therefore particularly important that public tenders focus in particular on giving small and medium-sized enterprises a chance to be awarded public contracts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my question is: is there an agreement with the wto that the principles of the doha negotiations will be taken into account in these free trade agreements?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you for the excellent report. it makes me really quietly optimistic that if we do install the desired european rating agency, we will eventually become independent of private us agencies. i am not only interested in the location, but i would also be interested in the structure and the structure of this european credit rating agency. after all, an agency like this is supposed to have a bite, not be toothless. i would also be interested, of course, in the consequences of the procedure and the consequences of a bad result for a eurozone member in terms of its creditworthiness.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have established in the roaming regulation i for data exchange and for telephone calls that there is a 'must carry' regulation, that is, that every operator in europe must be able to reach every customer. now, all of a sudden, conflicts arise because operators take these services off the grid and are not willing to provide the necessary support. do you think it may be necessary for the national regulatory authorities to act here?
it is very gratifying and welcome that the commission is dealing with this subject in the context of competition law. my question is: are there any analogous cases decided by the european court of justice and could these cases also be used for this type of access restriction? are there any smartphone users who have already tried to take legal action against their provider?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union has a long history of supporting the right of asylum and the right to seek asylum in the member states. but there are serious doubts whether the creation of this new help desk is necessary for the improvement of the situation and whether it does not interfere too much with the competences of the member states. the establishment of the agency is another step towards centralising eu asylum policy. overall, a significantly high level of protection is sought, modelled on the action of the most generous member states, such as austria. the aim is to reduce existing disparities, with the more generous countries staying on course and the others adapting. this was all very well, but the creation and expansion of eu agencies - we have tripled since 2000 - is clearly contrary to the lisbon strategy's aim of deregulation and subsidiarity. the much-talked-about goal of circular migration - a little here, a little there, temporarily here - is, i think, absolutely missed. in practice, this does not work, and circular migration often becomes permanent. the following criticisms are also to be noted: unrealistic detention conditions come at the expense of security and at the expense of our executive branch. the extension of the family concept to include grandmothers will also invite a further influx, and easier access to the labour market in times of high unemployment is unacceptable. the expansion of basic services to the level of countries such as austria and germany is unfinanciable. the new asylum office is therefore not appropriate and should be saved. a common asylum strategy must be reviewed from the ground up, because the way you recommend it will not work in the countries concerned.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i think the commissioner has summed up what we are talking about tonight, which is to help quickly and in a targeted way. we urgently need to speed up the implementation of these programmes and i believe that the third amendment to the general structural funds regulation was brought about in response to the financial crisis and is intended, as already mentioned, to provide quick and, above all, easy access to these funds. we know from the past that the structural funds have made a very important contribution to creating quality of life, jobs and a future in the regions. i believe that in times like these, the european union needs solidarity to act as a crisis firefighter at this moment, because, as i said, flexibility and solidarity are needed. the crisis management measures that have been implemented are a sign of this solidarity, and we need the flexible advance payments to enable the desired projects to be implemented, which create quality of life and jobs. as our rapporteur has already said, and as mrs krehl has said this evening, there has been an almost inexcusable delay in the adoption of this regulation. it is from this perspective that the future cohesion policy should be designed in such a way that it does not raise procedural and technical issues as an obstacle to the rapid and efficient implementation of regional policy. i therefore support the rapporteur's call for the rapid entry into force of this amendment to the structural funds regulation: rapid and targeted aid.
the commission has already done so. cohesion policy is an important policy instrument and offers the opportunity to contribute to crisis management, stimulate demand in the short term and at the same time invest in long-term growth and competitiveness. we also have to say very clearly that cohesion policy and especially the advance payments and the accelerated local implementation in 2009 have contributed very significantly to the increase in purchasing power for the benefit of the economy and to a reduction in the fall in private consumption. cohesion policy also makes a very important contribution to the europe 2020 strategy. i therefore did not understand your colleague, commissioner olli rehn, when he linked his canon of sanction mechanisms for non-compliance with internal financial market rules with restrictions on regional policy. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, i have to say something. i shall gladly pass on to mr kirilov all the words of praise and positive evaluation of today's debate and would like to emphasize two points again: we have only european tax funds to allocate, and therefore it is also our task to make it as transparent as possible, to simplify access to the funds. that is one of the aims of this report. i also believe - and here i am asking my colleague mrs schroedter - that we should not insinuate that individual member states are not doing everything they can to implement european law and to comply with it. i heard a little bit of that today, and i don't think we should be blaming anyone. i expect all the member states and all the institutions to do their utmost to ensure that these european funds are used efficiently and correctly. the second point i would like to make to mrs swinburne, but not only to her: we are not giving alms to poor regions, but we are supporting regions to strengthen their purchasing power and create jobs, because the purchasing power of these regions contributes to the fact that europe as a whole can once again produce and sell. we are strengthening the internal market. i would like to say that the commission has not been able to give a clear answer to the question of the need for a regional policy, and that it is not only an act of general solidarity, but that anyone who understands economics and business, not only from a social point of view but also from a business and economic point of view, should be able to understand why we need regional policy and why we need it, particularly in times of crisis, as a rapid and effective measure to revitalise the european economy in all the regions of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think all the members of the committee on budgetary control agree on one point, namely that we need solutions for the eu agency system. that is why i would like to propose 11 solutions today. this could save half a billion euros a year without affecting the quality of administrative services. my eleven solutions are as follows: 1) there must be a sufficient basis in primary law. the lisbon treaty has not created this basis either. 2) an immediate halt to the creation of new enterprises until an independent analysis has finally established the added value of this decentralization. 3) the closure of seven agencies and the merging of the administrative tasks of individual agencies. 4) in future, each agency must be under the direct responsibility of a single eu commissioner, and the eu commissioner for administration should be responsible for horizontal issues in particular. 5) reduction of the number of members of the board of directors. the number of full members should not exceed 10% of the number of posts and the total number of members should not exceed 20. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. 7) eu agencies should be exempted from the eu staff regulations. (8) all agency directors should be elected for a fixed period of time on a proposal from the commission and only after consulting and obtaining the consent of the european parliament. 9) a clear performance agreement between the commission and the agencies with well-defined quantitative criteria, which are summarised in an annual performance ranking by the court of auditors. 10) all agencies should transfer financial data to a database. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that is not possible yet, the data comes in paper form. the principle of subsidiarity the commission has not yet taken account of the requirement to state reasons. so, the solutions are on the table. mr. vulture, mrs. gross, it's time you allowed this solution in the house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i was glad that i had to travel to strasbourg this week and not to brussels, because strasbourg is much closer to me and it was therefore a great advantage to be able to travel uninterrupted despite the disruption of air links. the second request i have from the budgetary control department is that we still have a package of papers like this for this week, showing what is going on in the house this week. i would be glad if we had a computer at our workplaces, especially since we can get everything electronically, so that when we vote we have the amendments in our own languages and the vote can be carried out in a targeted way. we have hundreds of votes, always at lunch, and it would be good if we didn't have to carry the paper around, but the texts were delivered in electronic form. the european parliament should also be at the leading edge of technology. thirdly, when we travel, there is all the billing afterwards, which has become very bureaucratic in recent times. it is a lot more work for us as members of parliament, but also for the administration of the house. the additional audit imposes additional conditions. we should set up a working party to go back to the essentials, to correct, accurate calculations, in order to reduce bureaucratic expenditure by 25%, and not increase it by 50%, as has been the case in recent months. as regards the structure, i would ask the commission to examine whether, given the financial crisis in many countries at the moment, the cohesion fund and the regional fund should be used more for investment and less for the consumption of european funds. it would also be useful to increase the appropriations to 1.27% of gnp (gross national income) in order to be able to do more in the area of investment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we want a union which is accepted by the citizens, then a key point is that the citizens also know what is being done with the money they collect in taxes. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. but it's not just about transparency, it's also about readability. we're paid to do these things as our main job. i think that if citizens occasionally look at such a document, they should be able to do something about it. the commission must therefore be asked to work concretely on the legibility of its documents, particularly as regards the budgetary framework. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the call from the member states for the eu to do something, but on the other hand not to provide it with money, is a political problem we all have, and this is where the commission should be working in the next few years.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. this has been rising steadily since 2002, although turkey has been experiencing more regression than progress. the latest special report from the court of auditors reveals massive problems. the funds were not used efficiently and were not sufficiently evaluated. i therefore call on the commission to go beyond the discharge to the citizens of the eu and to explain what exactly has happened to 800 million euros a year for turkey. i would like to make a general comment on the various agencies. the growth, creation, re-creation and expansion of the tasks of eu agencies, which have almost tripled since 2000, is clearly contrary to the lisbon strategy's calls for de-bureaucratisation. this includes the new asylum office. and, although this is 2008, a word about the drug enforcement administration. i would really like to know whether she was asleep when hard drugs were legalized in the czech republic earlier this year, and now, thanks to the open borders, we have a wonderful drug tourism. so we're tough on the smokers, but then you sleep on the hard drugs.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we in the epp want an agreement. we want a good partnership with our american friends, especially in the field of security. we want a good deal, and we want that deal fast. we must not forget that the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and that it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. after the parliament's resolution in mid-september, after the council's decisions at the end of november, after the discussions in january and february and after the clear opinion of parliament in february, we now have a situation which is a good example of the cooperation between the commission, the council and parliament. i would like to thank you, commissioner, and the council for this new start, which was initiated by you and commissioner reding in particular. this is an example of what the european citizen wants as a capacity to act, what the european citizen wants to see us come together to find solutions - not just the european citizen, but above all those who are watching and listening in this room today. i would like to address in particular the friends from the rhine and the hunsrück and the friends from austria who are here today. we and our group do not seek problems, we fight for solutions. i would like to say that a number of excellent solutions have been found here, which we referred to in the resolution of september, whether in the matter of bulk data, whether in the matter of third countries, whether in the matter of duration, whether in the matter of predictability and other matters. that's what we need to negotiate now. i am a little surprised that the green and gue/ngl colleagues who did not vote for the resolution at the time, who refused to contribute, are now calling for it. i would like to invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to come on board, to negotiate with us and to work together to achieve a good result. the way this has been thought about here, we should continue to work on it in the future, and it has also been said in your remarks that we should push for the establishment of the tftp. we will need those instruments and we should stick to the timetable you have set so that we can discuss the results of your negotiations in parliament this summer and hopefully reach a decision. i believe that the way you have conducted the talks can continue in your action plan, which i would like to expressly support, with regard to the data convention, the pnr questions, the sis questions and others.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think we can put a few things out of the question, such as the transatlantic partnership, which is really the basis of our foreign policy, the common fight against terrorism, and cooperation between the eu institutions. but it is also a fact that the treaty of lisbon gives us new foundations and we, as the european parliament, have new rights and we must exercise these rights in particular to protect our citizens. the protection of the fundamental rights of our citizens, as well as the protection of life, but also the protection of privacy, is a right. we therefore support the idea of a specific data transfer. the transfer of aggregate data, however, certainly means shooting beyond the target. the new agreement should ensure a balance between these fundamental rights, but also reciprocity, proportionality and a minimum level of data security. i would like to ask the council representative, the presidency, where it was this morning when we debated the discharge for 2008, one of the most important chapters. the council presidency has unfortunately been absent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the debate today shows that civil rights and the fight against terrorism are not always easy to reconcile. the swift agreement, which is being discussed again today, highlights the problem of safeguarding our civil rights while investing in the security of our global community. the commission's draft mandate still provides for the transfer of large data sets between the us and the eu. the storage times are still too long and last but not least i have two questions: is this bilateral agreement limited in time? if so, for what period and after what period will the data be deleted?
i have to say, madam president, we are already dealing with the second dossier in a series of contracts with the united states, which are fraught with massive problems of data protection. this brings me to the proposal by our chief data protection officer, mr hustinx, who said that it would make sense to finally draw up and adopt a comprehensive transatlantic framework agreement on data protection. that would be a very grateful task for both sides and would make things a lot easier for us. it turns out that we have very different security concepts on both sides of the atlantic. we must also ensure that our commission, as the european parliament, does not simply accept what is proposed by the united states, but brings our standards into these negotiations with equal measure and on an equal footing. a definition of the term 'serious crime' is therefore essential. a clear correction of the data must be possible. we must be able to activate data protection, otherwise there will be a 'no go' for this agreement.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am glad that commissioner malmström is here, but in this case i would have preferred to see her colleague, mr potočnik, the commissioner responsible, here, because he is the one who has to solve this problem. i would like to point out that europe produces 0.73% of the world's gold and that gold is currently being mined in bulgaria, finland, hungary, italy, romania and sweden. not everyone uses this dangerous cyanide technology. i would also point out that the task force that was set up at the time to investigate the baia mare accident found that there was an inadequate design of the plant for the storage and disposal of the rock material, that the approval of this design was not controlled by the licensing authorities, and that there was insufficient monitoring of the construction of the dam and the operation of the plant, which means that there were many errors on the part of the plant operator. as the commissioner rightly said, we have learned from this accident. but i think the commission is called upon to draw further conclusions in the light of this very dangerous technology. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i think that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. europe has repeatedly committed itself to high environmental standards. i would remind you of the water framework directive, which clearly aims to contain these risks, but of course also the commitments in the area of biodiversity. i therefore ask you, mrs malmström, to convey to commissioner potočnik our clear request that progress on the part of the commission, on the part of the european legislator, be made in the field of gold mining.
in writing. - the costs of a state task, namely the maintenance of public security, cannot be passed on in a vacuum. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised. it is only if the countries themselves are obliged to finance the strict security measures required and are allowed to decide on them themselves that the proliferation of body scanners and the like can be prevented. terrorist hysteria and an uncontrolled arms race would benefit only resourceful u.s. companies. the present proposal is therefore to be welcomed.
in writing. − the eu has confirmed the importance of the baltic-adriatic axis with the prioritisation of the northern arm from danzing to the czech republic and the commitment to the brenner base tunnel project. the extension of the southern section of the line via the austrian southern railway to italy is all the more important. it is in this network, which carries about half of all goods and people, that a dangerous needlehole must be defused. the eu's support for the koralm project is essential because of the existing bottlenecks in the railway network for freight transport, for which the eu is always strong. the eu has a unique opportunity with the coral tunnel to achieve the scale of railway switching that has been sought for decades. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - in times of crisis, the eu is once again showing its true face. when the eastern eu countries were frozen in the russian gas dispute, there was little solidarity. now that the economic sausage, the euro - the flagship of the eu - is at stake, a lot is possible. even the eu grants are being adjusted accordingly. the possible 100% reimbursement for labour market policy measures in 2009 and 2010 has not promoted further training and quality training places to the desired extent, but is certainly essential in the current situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the budget. putting money into a bottomless barrel without any accompanying measures at will can be dangerous. that's why i turned down the offer.
in writing. − article 290 tfeu provides that the legislator may delegate to the commission, in a basic act, part of its powers, but only in respect of supplementing or amending a legislative act. the 'delegated acts' adopted by the commission accordingly shall be non-legislative acts of general application. the rapporteur calls for stricter monitoring of the commission's exercise of delegated legislative powers. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. the european commission has launched a new website, europeana, to provide information on the eu's policies and actions. the fact that commercial providers have significantly more traffic to google books and are much further along in their development is logical and also linked to the higher level of awareness. first, more universities and institutions would need to be attracted to the project in order to make faster progress on europeana and to make the digital library more common. only then can we talk about more financial resources. even if europeana is important for european cultural heritage and knowledge - especially in times of financial crisis and billions of euros of aid for greece - the understanding of an increase in funds, and moreover from economic support, is limited. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − for years, the eu has been working towards uniform animal husbandry directives. progress has been made in the field of stock farming in particular, but some efforts still need to be made. the continuation of the action plan is certainly useful, especially in the area of enforcement of existing laws and directives. in this context, it is clearly necessary to reiterate the problem of the import of eastern dogs, where the existing rules have not yet closed all loopholes. sick and neglected animals, usually taken from their mothers much too soon, are transported to the west in the most degrading conditions to be sold at high prices here. the report is a positive signal in the right direction, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − there is no doubt that farms in peripheral regions are particularly in need of financial support. small mountain farms often have to fight for their survival, as they are unable to react quickly to new market demands. small farmers in particular lack the human resources to remain competitive. consequently, from an economic point of view alone, they are in a much more difficult position than large exposed farms. the massive loss of farmers in recent years and the increase in the number of small-scale farmers make it clear that eu support policy is far too focused on mass livestock farming and the like. in order to maintain the self-sufficiency of the eu countries, even in the slightest, it is too late to renationalize agricultural subsidies. in the interests of a fair distribution of compensation, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − support for rural areas with difficult natural conditions is one of the main components of the second pillar of the common agricultural policy. the report also provides for support for these regions not only in terms of food production but in a macroeconomic context. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − by 2013, every eu household should have a broadband connection at a reasonable price. europe is also set to become the world's most mobile internet continent by 2015. i support the measures taken to this end and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the comprehensive report on latin america takes a sensible approach in envisaging the development of relations between the eu and the countries of south america through a strategic partnership. this creation of a euro-latin american zone can not only bring positive economic results, but above all it can strengthen the role of the eu as a foreign policy actor, especially vis-à-vis the usa. unfortunately, the report also contains paragraphs and phrases which reveal the almost missionary zeal of some members and which may be perceived as too much interference in the internal affairs of the south american countries. it is neither necessary nor useful to prescribe in detail to these countries how they should organise their economy or their education and science policy, nor how they should regulate in detail their foreign policy. it is absurd to ask latin american countries, for example, to introduce sex education and so on. i therefore abstained from voting on the final vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on today's eu-canada summit, as i consider it important not only to maintain relations at a high level but also to further intensify and improve them. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the introduction of a global banking levy or financial transaction tax.
in writing. the resolution on the negotiations for a new swift agreement contains many detailed proposals on how to improve data protection in the future in the context of this provision of financial transaction data for the united states. this is very welcome. but it obscures the question of the fundamental need for such a massive invasion of privacy. it is obviously assumed. but it is not clear that the phenomenon of terrorism can be tackled so effectively. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. it is known from the past and from current practice that data is used or exploited to the fullest extent possible and often for profit. i therefore reject the idea of disclosing highly private data and have therefore voted against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - for the reasons already set out in relation to the swift agreement, i am opposed to the transfer of data, particularly if the useful use of the data cannot be demonstrated or if misuse of the data cannot be excluded. the resolution refers in detail to the possible dangers and recommends that the vote on the request for approval of the agreements on flight data records with the usa and australia be postponed. that is why i voted for the motion.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs. we should send a very clear signal today as a parliament that we are looking forward to the new colleagues here in parliament and that the council is really lazy. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) was adopted by the council on 14 june. we have a duty as a parliament not only to represent the people in the best possible way, but also to work in the committees as efficiently and effectively as possible, and we also expect the expertise and knowledge of those colleagues who have for the most part already been elected freely and properly. as an austrian, i am very much looking forward to joe weidenholzer and i hope that we can welcome him as a member of parliament as soon as possible.
i have to say, madam president, the ink of the failed lisbon treaty has hardly dried up when the next amendments are already in the house, and the chaos surrounding our new members of parliament - we are already talking about phantom members of parliament - is actually perfect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in france, for example, where regional elections are held and there are no lists, it is not very difficult to get members to stand. we should be clearly in favour of an election and not of a choice made by a parliament. secondly, it is also very useful - and citizens expect it - for us to provide concrete information on the activity and remuneration of members during the observation period. this phantom situation certainly does not contribute to citizens' confidence in the eu. it should also be clarified as soon as possible when the new colleagues will arrive and what status they will have. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the lisbon treaty, which is to be adopted by the end of the year. the citizens expect a quick clarification from the council.
i have to say, madam president, smart, sustainable growth, actionism, reforms, economic governance - a lot of nice words, high goals. but i'm already asking a few questions that are troubling me: will the new strategy suffer a similar fate to the previous one? how can we involve the regions and local authorities to make this strategy a success, and how can we, above all, better stimulate and monitor the consolidation of national budgets? the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it. but sovereignty also means responsibility, with the consequence of having to defend a wrong financial policy. it is not acceptable that some member states should live beyond their means at the expense of others. solidarity, of course, but it must not be a one-way street! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the community's europe, a credible political union, sustainable growth, sustainable employment and innovation, social cohesion and sustainable competitiveness are our goals. europe 2020 is not our goal. europe 2020 must become an instrument to achieve the objectives. it must become our robert schuman declaration for 2010, as concrete as the one of 9 may 1950. europe 2020 must not become a concert of unrealized hopes for the future and a cesspool of all open points, problems and frustrations. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and actions in the field of climate change, in particular through the european environment agency. europe 2020 must set in motion concrete projects for growth, jobs, research, innovation and sustainable competitiveness. we need a cash flow in all the member states and in the european union so that we can have an honest basis for our plans for the future and also know what we have to finance and what we need the money for. we also need a europe 2020 fitness check for national budgetary, tax, research, energy, innovation and social policies. i fully support the measures taken by olli rehn. europe 2020 must be the expression of the new common political will and our response to the unfortunately increasing nationalism, egoism and protectionism. let us complete the internal market and create a strong economic union alongside monetary union as part of a credible political union. that's what we need, no more, no less.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is really pointless to comment on comments made by the right and left political fringes in this house, they do not really play any role in this sensible house, which is supported by political forces interested in the construction of europe. but if the eu 2020 strategy is compared with a communist five-year plan, then you have to advise these people: please look at a textbook on economic policy, read the history, and you will see the differences! now we hear from the left - not from the rational forces here, who are slightly to the left of us - that europe should go back to communist times. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. it is therefore necessary that we as a political system consider how best to use the resources available. it's all about that planning. each family, each community, is deciding what to do with the resources to get ahead in a certain amount of time. it's reasonable to do that. until now, only a market economy with limits, not an unfettered market, has been able to provide these services in the long term. it is therefore also sensible that we should think at european level about how we can organise this market economy in europe. the idea of thinking in terms of national boundaries is no longer successful, it is doomed to failure. we must therefore consider how to make this european market work for people. it is not about competitiveness per se, but about europe being competitive so that the services can be provided for the people. this is the discussion! many colleagues have already gone into the details. i would like to confine myself to these general statements. but you have to say to the margins, "think about what you're saying, but above all, read history".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. article 6 of the lisbon treaty provides for the eu to accede to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which means strengthening the eu's system of fundamental rights. the european convention on human rights is of great importance for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in europe. membership of this legal system would strengthen the fundamental rights of eu citizens, as it would give them a further remedy when they feel that their fundamental rights have been violated. i see the eu's accession to the european convention on human rights as very positive, because it will also raise awareness of the importance of fundamental rights in the eu and ideally increase the eu's credibility in its external relations.
in writing. the eu is dealing with a number of problems with the european convention on human rights (echr). the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. the geneva convention on refugees is being used, even though refugee protection explicitly refers to persecution for political or religious reasons, etc. today, the bulk of them are economic refugees. do they want to impose their admission by routes? in general, the failed integration policy of the past decades has been a blow to us. while the european court of human rights may be ordering minarets and burkas in europe - and some of the lawsuits are already underway - should the cross on the school wall and, perhaps, subsequently, on the union chest, seals, coats of arms and national flags disappear? actually, religious freedom was designed to counter a state that forbids the practice of religion in public. it cannot be that the indigenous population must deny its western roots in favour of the welfare rights of individuals. last but not least, the retention of data will probably be incompatible with the echr. the question arises whether the planned blocking of child pornography sites is in line with the convention, especially since the entertainment industry's blocking of sites is an opportunity to install copyright filters, the majority of which are us-based and therefore not subject to eu legislation, and does not address the root of the abuse problem.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am speaking today on the subject of air safety. this is a subject which has occupied us a great deal in the last few weeks and which affects us all. human life is superior to any economic good. that is why i am in favour of a flight ban if there is an external risk, such as an ash cloud, to the safety of passengers. because it's not acceptable that lives are being put at risk. i am reminded of the two near-misses in 1982 and 1989 and of the fighter jet in which glass fragments caused by the ash cloud were found. test flights have been made, but the evaluation is dragging on. experts were asked, and their answers were inconclusive. the fact remains that human life is precious and should not be put at risk, and that effective and affordable alternatives to air transport should be put into practice.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament has today given the commission discharge for 2008, and that is a good thing. never before has the error rate of eu funds paid out been as low as this year. the areas where the error rate was above 5%, and thus above the tolerance limit, were halved in the last three years. the area of cohesion alone leaves much to be desired. this is where we must make a stronger effort in future. the sector of agriculture and natural resources is particularly important. the error rate was below 2%, and therefore clearly in the green zone. the surveillance and control systems are engaged. in this context, however, i would also like to refer to the pre-accession aid for turkey, which is the subject of the discharge report. the increase in funds for turkey is more than questionable in the absence of measurable criteria. eu funds cannot be transferred to third countries without defining indicators. direct control of payments and expenditure must be established. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the regions affected by the crisis.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we've heard a lot already. we want to give a voice to the car dealers and the small and mediumsized enterprises with this oral question and resolution, because this voice has not been heard sufficiently by the commission in recent years. the hearing raised concerns, particularly from car dealers, about the unequal treatment of manufacturers. there has been talk of legal uncertainty, there has been talk of a reduction in competition due to the problems facing small car dealers, but we have not received any response. i would ask you to use the 21 days until 26 may to incorporate the resolution which parliament is to adopt tomorrow into your regulation, so as to meet the needs of motor dealers without jeopardizing the commission's approach. i would like to ask you to take parliament and the concerns of the motor dealers seriously and to incorporate their concerns and those of the small and mediumsized enterprises into the regulation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, you have just listened to us and you might almost think that this is the difference between theory and practice. i can only appeal to you once again with the words i addressed to the president of the commission in the spring of 2009. we have unresolved issues for the car dealers, for small and mediumsized businesses, we have a financial and economic crisis, an uncertain growth and employment market. it would be best to extend the existing regulation rather than create a new one which would add to all these problems. we have the problem of differing national regulations, if only there is more individual brand marketing. we are against a non-binding code of conduct and in favour of an efficient enforcement mechanism. we want to leave the 30% limit on the purchase of spare parts intact because it gives more freedom of choice to authorized dealers. the guidelines are not precise enough to guarantee access to technical information as it is in the past. you simply omitted important contractual clauses, namely those on the terms and time limits for termination, on multi-brand distribution, on the transfer of companies and on dispute settlement. please also take a stand for small and mediumsized enterprises! the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the marketing of products. we want more competition! the restrictions on the possibilities of small and mediumsized enterprises and motor dealers reduce competition. i would like to ask you to take the market, the undertakings and the resolution of parliament seriously and to make the most of the 21 days you have left.
the commission has already done so. in fact, all the speakers in parliament have now spoken in favour of a sme-friendly regulation. we need a strong supply chain. the small suppliers have a good employment situation. it is important for them to maintain competition in the system, as it is for retailers, whether they are large or small. the competition must work! i believe that in the automobile sector in particular the consumer also has a right to effective competition, so that he does not have to face very one-sided systems in which he no longer has the freedom to choose. the freedom of choice is what is particularly important for rural areas in the future, and it is here that we must ensure that rural areas are provided with universal service. i therefore believe that mr karas has put it perfectly right: we have very little time left, but we should make efficient use of it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. health is a precious commodity to be preserved. cancer is a worldwide problem that persists despite medical advances. in 2004, the who estimated that 13% of all deaths were caused by cancer. in the eu, about 3.2 million people develop cancer each year. the main types of cancer are lung, bowel and breast cancer. preventive health checks, especially as people age, are also an important part of maintaining good health. the principle 'prevention is better than cure' is being applied here. the most cost-effective strategy with the greatest chance of success is preventive healthcare.
in writing. the fraud report shows a generally positive trend: the negative financial impact of irregularities decreased in all sectors from 2007 to 2008. this is not the case with pre-accession aid, where the negative consequences have increased by 90.6%! in this context, i would point out that the eu has been providing financial support to turkey's "efforts" to join the eu since 2002, with the annual allocation being gradually increased. for the period 2007 to 2013, turkey is profiting 4.84 billion euros! the commission is aware that turkey has made little progress towards meeting the accession criteria. but the money keeps flowing, and it keeps going up. the latest ecj special report also found that, particularly in the case of pre-accession assistance to turkey, the funds are invested without sufficiently specific objectives and performance indicators. without clear strategic guidelines, the funds are used haphazardly and not constructively. this madness must be stopped!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional development. the commission has already done so. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur on behalf of the committee on regional development for his report. we in the committee on regional development welcome the eib's high equity ratio and we are pleased to note that economic and social cohesion, economic and social convergence and in particular the convergence pillar of eu cohesion policy are among the eib's main objectives. we also welcome the provision of loans totalling eur 21 billion, or 41% of the total volume of eib loans in the eu, for convergence projects as part of the eib's contribution to the achievement of the convergence objectives. i would also like to emphasize the added value of the measures taken in cooperation with the commission and the bank's strategy, which should provide additional support for the structural funds' operations and give them additional effectiveness.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is encouraging to note from the annual report that the european investment bank has responded to the crisis with a rapid and significant increase in its resources. in particular, lending to smes must remain a key priority and be further developed where possible. however, it must be ensured that the loans actually reach the entrepreneurs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the european banking supervisory authority. however, in order to be effective, the commission must have a broad mandate to review banks operating across borders. as regards the objectives of the european investment bank, i would like to see a greater focus on activities within europe. this is particularly urgent in the light of the ongoing financial and economic crisis. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eib is a major player in the world economy. mrs kadenbach, for example, spoke of the very necessary contribution to social convergence. i want to put this in a political context. we are very concerned to see that in more and more countries extreme right-wing parties are gaining ground. they do so because social convergence in the european union is not working as we all wished. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. the last example, mr president, i too know your political attitude, and mr mölzer has just done it: he makes a very nice speech, but in between he calls a political opponent - me - a psychopath. this is the language of hitler-fascism! that's the way they work! even political opponents have been branded as inhuman. i ask you to take action against this, and i ask my colleagues at the eib to continue their work, also in the area of transparency, to become even more transparent, because their approach is also helping to combat the emerging new fascism.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a personal remark under rule 151 of the rules of procedure, after mr hans-peter martin has made some serious allegations against me in his speech. i would like to stress that i do not want to have anything to do with this member whose political business is to denounce colleagues, who denounces the whole of parliament in the media and who portrays parliament's officials as lazy, ineffective and incompetent. i'm not talking to a man who uses secret service methods, keyhole cameras, micro-cameras and other secret things to spy on people. i have not spoken to him today, nor will i in the future, because i do not want to have anything to do with such a person! i reject his claim and point out that in my view hans-peter martin should withdraw that claim.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, i would like to know how the basel iii debate will affect the bank and what impact it will have, in particular, on the european investment fund. do you think that the creditworthiness required to provide adequate support in an economic crisis is currently developing well, or do you think that there is a need for creditworthiness to be improved? how do you see the future opportunities for providing more risk capital for crises such as the one we are currently experiencing? the european investment fund is particularly important for small and mediumsized enterprises in a difficult time. i would also like to express my gratitude to the eib for the success of the cooperation with the eif and for the great progress made in focusing on small and mediumsized enterprises, but above all on the transeuropean networks.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in fact, it is sad that i have to bring this to the house at all. i must point out that mr mölzer has told the untruth. yeah, he called me a psychopath on the way up here! yes, he's referred me to the psychiatric ward many times in the past year! that's the way right-wing radicals work. the socialist group's leader said last year that 'h.c. strache is a nazi to me'. this is the man whose party mr. mölzer belongs to and with whom he works closely. i really believe that, on the basis of what we are seeing here again and again, we must not only deal with these conflicts over the economic crisis, the financial crisis and what can already be called a money war, but also with the dangerous rise of the radical right - and if you were sitting back here, mr president, with your political background, you would notice the dangerous tendencies that are emerging again in hungary, austria and so on. defend the beginnings!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. nigeria will be back in the african political spotlight after the upcoming world cup in south africa. nigeria is large, it's rich, but it's dramatically unequal socially. and it is, of course, in globalization, in the tension between the chinese way and a possible european way. i am convinced that we must continue along the european path of vigorously prosecuting abuses and violations of human rights, and that we must make those who are in prison our partners, not corrupt leaders of certain cliques and government circles where short-term gains can be made. in this case, we must support this resolution and support what the honourable member on the left has said. it is not too little, but we in the eu must stand up for human rights and not for what china is planning to do to nigeria in violation of human rights.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i support the motion tabled today by mr prodi. what concerns me is an amendment to this report tabled by the epp and among them mr seeber , which was unfortunately adopted by the plenary. i am afraid that this is the way the conservatives want to re-introduce nuclear energy through the back door. the promotion of low-carbon energy sources is a well-known argument of the nuclear lobby. i would like to stress today that the prodi report is certainly going in a different direction. as an austrian, i do not see nuclear energy as renewable energy. it is very important for me to make it clear that i did not vote for this item today.
in writing. the rapporteur is against a convention, because the treaty changes are only of a transitional nature. i do not see this as the case, especially since there are also problems of democratic politics involved: france does not have the possibility, on the basis of a different electoral law, of allowing democratically and directly elected members to be 'relegated' from a list. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − with resources running out, electric vehicles can certainly become a genuine climate-friendly alternative if they are developed further. however, this is only possible if they are truly resource- and environment-friendly in both their manufacture and operation. at the moment, however, electric and hybrid propulsion systems are still in their infancy and a uniform framework needs to be established without favouring these technologies over other alternative propulsion systems. the present proposal does not take enough account of other alternative propulsion systems, which is why i abstained.
in writing. the commission's proposed amendments are particularly contrary to the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises in the motor vehicle sector. the automotive sector is also characterised by a large number of complex regulations (such as those concerning safety and the environment), so competition law must take account of the specificities of this market. that is why i voted against the commission's proposal.
in writing. − cancer is the biggest threat to public health in the eu, with a high mortality rate. of the three million new cases, at least 1.7 million will die. early detection and treatment could significantly reduce this number. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. transnational cooperation must be a priority if we are to achieve a lasting control of cancer. the report is a clear signal in the right direction, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i am very concerned about the fight against fraud, particularly in the case of the regional funds and the instrument for pre-accession assistance. the proposed anti-fraud measures are, however, too centralised. i therefore abstained.
in writing. - nigeria is repeatedly the scene of bloody violence between christians and muslims, who each represent about half the population. and the riots are happening at shorter intervals. nothingness results in violent clashes. even the night curfew and the deployment of troops, which have been in place since january, have not prevented further massacres. the fact that the long absence of president yar'adua has already plunged west african nigeria into a political crisis, that there have been violent clashes between christians and muslims in the central nigerian city of jos, and that a ceasefire has been called off in the oil-rich niger delta, suggests that the president's death is a sign of things to come. when muslim nomads attacked christian villages earlier this year, killing at least 500 people, the army reportedly did not respond until hours after the first alarm. what was missing was the outcry in the eu. if switzerland votes against the construction of minarets in a referendum, muslim states threaten economic sanctions and jihad. on the other hand, when christians are killed for their religion, it takes the eu months to react. the european union must act as an honest mediator and react earlier. this is also reflected in the resolution, which is why i voted in favour.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i want to make this quick. we can accept this request for the reasons stated. an official letter is on its way to this parliament. i too see this as a good sign that the council - i hope it is at least - is prepared to show the same transparency and the same willingness to reach consensus as it has shown here with regard to the foreign service. i agree with mrs gräßle on this point.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i find it strange that mrs bauer, whom i respect very much, has not mentioned that the report has been rejected. i also find it strange that mrs bauer has forgotten to mention that she contacted the council about a report which was rejected. this is not normal parliamentary procedure! it is therefore absolutely right to put this on the agenda. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial institutions are able to comply with the obligations imposed on them by the treaty. the debate is usually conducted under the cloak of ackermann and co. what we really need is a fundamental discussion about the current monetary system. we should finally be debating questions like, how do we get the growth compulsion out of our system? what can we do about the banks' compulsion to lend? should we abolish interest? how can we achieve the distinction between value and monetary value? money should be used to create values for our society, not monetary values! before reality overtakes us, we should try to reform the monetary system from within with such a debate. but this can only be achieved with a strong and, above all, independent policy.
i have to say, madam president, thank you for allowing me to speak on this subject. around 30% of all selfemployed people in the eu are women. small and mediumsized enterprises, especially in the service sector, are particularly represented and thus make a significant economic contribution to our society. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not based on the principle of subsidiarity. the problem of women in self-employment is often that any motherhood jeopardizes their existence. in view of the ageing of the population, it is more important than ever to ensure effective maternity protection and to give priority to the family. family businesses, in which women help in the enterprise, also play an important role, whether in the professions, in the craft, in trade or, above all, in agriculture. in all these areas, it is necessary to ensure adequate social and legal protection. in principle, however, the competence for social legislation should remain in the member states and not be transferred to the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations on the social dialogue.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to congratulate mrs lulling on her achievements. i welcome the fact that this report is another step towards the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the selfemployed sector. an important and correct point is that it is not just about the marriage but also about the life partner. finally, the cooperating partner can enjoy the same social protection. this also applies to maternity protection.
i have to say, madam president, i too would like to congratulate mrs lulling very warmly. women in particular have completely new opportunities in the field of self-employment in small and mediumsized enterprises. we should make sure that self-employment is viable, that new jobs can be created and that we can develop completely new areas. we have, for example, developed girls' day to encourage young women to take up technical occupations, because it is in technical occupations that there are completely new opportunities and in today's society the full range of occupations available to women is not really known. finally, it is women who have always provided stability in the financial sector, and i believe that it is particularly in times of crisis that we must look at the possibility of equity and risk capital in companies being used by women.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i congratulate you on this report. i think it represents a big step in the right direction. we have over 160 million buildings in europe and these buildings need to be subjected to thermal renovation in order to use as little energy as possible and to reduce overall energy consumption accordingly. 40% of the energy is used to heat the buildings. we hope that by 2020 we can achieve the target of 5% of total energy consumption through thermal remediation. but it is also about creating new jobs. we certainly need training concepts for the craftsmen who will then not only renovate these buildings but also build new ones. we need small and mediumsized enterprises which specialise in this area and which are given the opportunity to make profits in this area and to pay higher net wages. i believe that this is the best way out of the crisis, because it will of course also allow for new tax revenues, replace energy from the fossil sector and thus reduce the consumption of fossil energy and allow the use of renewable energy. i believe that the substitution of fossil fuels in consumption and production is a forward-looking move, and that it will of course lead to a significant reduction in household costs, that these investments will pay off, and that we should not continue to consume as we have done in the past decades. we should start investing in it again. in times of crisis, in particular, investment is the essential prerequisite for getting out of the crisis with as little red tape as possible.
the commission has already done so. i think that there are a number of points which should be considered in the discussion which is to take place. the first is the energy saving potential of residential buildings in the coming years. what is easily feasible has already been done in part. however, renovations, especially of listed buildings, could be very expensive. it's of little use, then, if, despite a great energy-efficient renovation, the building is empty because the rent is soaring. even in the name of climate protection, i do not think that renovations should involve undue interference with the property rights of citizens. a solar obligation for house construction, roof renovation, building extension or replacement of the heating system, such as the marburg model, must not be imposed. with zero-energy buildings, that's one of the things. it is well known that the only way to meet the own electricity demand from photovoltaics is to have the power grid available for periods of low sunshine. the costs of running the electricity grid therefore remain the same. the combination with combined heat and power also results in expensive double structures. even with the best power management, there are still many unanswered questions and drastic price spikes, not to mention the fact that most of the smart devices are still missing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in 2008, the eu committed to reducing energy consumption by 20% by 2020. improving the energy efficiency of buildings with the aim of low-energy homes will not only reduce energy consumption. this directive also contributes to the management of the crisis. we need specialists and specialists to implement them and create jobs. we are also reducing the costs to the households of european citizens in the long term. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy performance of buildings, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the thousands of discussions on globalization over the past few decades, it has always come to the point where interested listeners ask: what to do? that's where the power of the consumer comes in. but where he could exercise it - that is, when buying - he is unnecessarily hindered. the textiles in particular have a certain uniformity, but what i lack is courage. the commission is not in a position to do so. i'm surprised i'm the first one to mention this. why have we not taken a much more ambitious approach to the social security system? why haven't we got that yet? why not use this ideal tool to create transparency about where, how and under what conditions such products are actually produced? why are we constantly lamenting the loss of jobs and not doing what is most important to consumers, namely to enable them to know in a way they can understand what they are actually buying?
in writing. once again, the organic label often promises something quite different from what is actually contained just think of the organic cotton scandal or the recent bio-chemical slippers. firstly, there is a new confusion on labels and seals in the organic market, which means that the eu could finally achieve a meaningful unification, something it is usually very happy to do, and secondly, it is time for the eu to adopt genetically modified cotton. if we are waiting for studies on the possible effects of harmful substances, then in the meantime, genetically modified cotton should at least be mentioned on the label. and it is high time that the eu also addressed the issue of 'radio frequency identification'. it is not acceptable that electronic labels be affixed to textiles without the knowledge of those concerned, and the relevant labelling regulations are still to be drawn up. if pedestrians are to be made visible on rfid clothing, it will be possible to monitor every step. given the terror of the "political correctness" mentality, wearing rfid clothing may soon require you to be careful about which events you attend. but maybe in the future, all you have to do is get your rfid number erased from google street map. or the chips trigger security alarms at the airports. george orwell is no longer sending greetings. we've long outgrown his surveillance visions.
in writing. i would like to comment on recital 1 and articles 44 and 45 of this report, which are very unfortunate and do not reflect the actual situation. firstly, it must be clearly stated that export refunds are a market-control instrument of the european union, used very carefully by the eu commission and only in a few exceptional cases. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the aid scheme, but it is still in the process of drawing up a proposal for a regulation on the application of the aid scheme. it should also be noted that the eu is the world's largest importer of agricultural products from developing countries. the eu is not therefore undermining the development and establishment of a viable agricultural sector in developing countries - quite the contrary. there is no doubt that the eu has a great responsibility in the field of international trade in the agricultural sector, especially towards developing countries. this is beyond question and the union is fully aware of it. in this context, however, i am reluctant to make any general judgments which have nothing to do with a differentiated and objective view. i object to recital i and to articles 44 and 45, and therefore to the report as a whole.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank all my colleagues for the constructive cooperation they have shown in the committee. this report deals with an important subject: everyone who drives on our roads in europe is affected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. the discussion in the committee has shown as well as the many discussions with various stakeholders on all sides, and also with some representatives of member states that there is an absolute and urgent need to improve the implementation of the rules on driving and rest periods. the regulation on the tachograph also needs to be improved. the commission presented a report in may 2009 analysing the implementation of social rules in road transport in the member states. the result - and i must say this - was sobering. the same offence can be punished with fines of between 500 and 5 000 euros in the various member states of europe. the consequence is that drivers naturally flee to states where possible, especially in border areas where the penalties are lower. this is an unbearable situation! the different frequency of checks also causes great uncertainty for drivers and operators. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to impose fines on the same infringements. this is an intolerable situation, because the aim of such regulations must be road safety and worker protection, but also - and this should not be forgotten - fair competition. in times of crisis, the pressure on entrepreneurs increases. there's a price pressure. it is therefore essential to ensure that safety is guaranteed for all road users, not least of course for the drivers directly involved. of course, as we all know, this can only be achieved with an effective criminal justice system. this requires clear, transparent but also and above all comparable penalties. if we want the driving and resting regulations to be successful, then the regulations - and this is the most important point in this report - must also be implemented in a sensible way in the member states! and we certainly need more frequent and better checks and information on the regulations, not only for drivers from the member states but also for drivers coming from third countries. of course, some of our systems are unknown to them. it is therefore essential to have an exchange of information, and this exchange should be based in the commission. this could be done by an agency dealing with road transport in general. it is not relevant to me in this context which body is responsible for the consolidation of controls and results. but one thing is certain, this place must be given! the treaty of lisbon has given us the possibility, in accordance with article 83 (2), to intervene in the legislation of the individual member states and to check whether the legislation is being adapted accordingly. it was not a question in the committee at all and it was also completely indisputable that this possibility should be used in the interests and for the safety of all of us. one thing, and i'll end with this, is of course also important: if we want drivers to take rest periods, then we also need to provide them with the necessary infrastructure. in many member states there are still not enough safe parking places. it will be up to the member states to ensure that this is done, because only then can the rules really have the effect they should have. i very much hope that the commission will continue to take this problem very seriously and i am convinced that parliament will and must remain on this. the work cannot be completed with this report. maybe she's just getting started. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the treaty of lisbon brought changes, particularly in the political weight of the european parliament. i have already pointed out that my acceptance of the amendment to the parliamentary budget is conditional. the ep should, of course, strive for legislative excellence. of course, the strengthening of parliament also means more commitment, more responsibility and more work. however, in times of crisis - the worst economic crisis in 60 years - i would like to point out that we, as members of the european parliament, must also and above all, be particularly careful with the money entrusted to us. the council and the european parliament should and must work together more closely, and this cooperation requires partnership.
i have to say, madam president, in many member states, including my own country, austria, there is nowhere to go with the new asylum seekers, and the population is quite rightly opposed to new reception centres. how can it be that the resettlement of refugees in the eu is still being promoted? the plan to bring asylum seekers who have already fled to a neighbouring third country, such as ukraine, into the eu because the standard of living is higher there, is therefore completely incomprehensible. and it is precisely in the economic crisis that such proposals can only be shaken to the head. the whole eu asylum concept is a disaster for me. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the asylum seekers are not sent back to romania. and to bring the basic welfare of asylum seekers up to the state's high social standards is far from realistic and unfinanciable. the eu should offer asylum to all those who really need it, who are really in need, but not open the door to economic refugees. what we need is stronger protection of the external borders, rapid, unbureaucratic procedures and, of course, a consistent return strategy.
i have to say, madam president, the union seems to have incredible financial resources at its disposal at the moment. the 750 billion euro package is to be used to provide huge sums of money for the migration problem, but not for return measures or even border security - after all, the supposedly safe schengen border is as porous as swiss cheese - no, 6,000 euros per person are to be used for the voluntary reception of refugees from third countries. if the eu really has the small money it needs, then it should support european families, and then we might have a rising birth rate. the argument that we need immigration to counter childlessness would finally be out of date. instead of opening the door, the geneva convention on refugees should finally be applied precisely, and it does not apply to the army of economic refugees. and if we are going to spend many millions, then these could also be put into the frontex border guard agency and not into the schengen information system's million-dollar tomb.
i have to say, madam president, i would just like to make a few brief remarks on the manka report. i discussed this with your colleague earlier. i would like to make it quite clear that i am opposed to any increase in the secretarial allowance, especially the eur 1 500 allowance. i also oppose any increase in the number of staff in this house, and if, after further evaluation, it is decided once again that an additional 1 500 euros per month will be available for the secretarial allowance, then this is just a mockery of the taxpayers. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for years we have been witnessing a phenomenon which the european union seems powerless to confront: the mass death of farmers is undermining the self-sufficiency of the eu countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, this is also a consequence of the common agricultural policy, which has been criticised for years, reformed again and again and still not working properly. but today we are at a turning point. in times of crisis - whether caused by a depreciating euro or simply because a volcano in iceland has disrupted air links and thus the supply of perishable goods - member states are left to fend for themselves. we've known that since russia last turned off the gas. if it becomes too narrow, everything depends on the self-sufficiency of a country, and this must be maintained in the eu, in the countries and regions with less-favoured areas and in the outermost regions. i believe that this can only be achieved by a certain renationalization of agriculture.
in writing. - there are still far too many accidents on europe's roads. this is due to the increasing volume of traffic, but also to the overstrain on road users caused by work or private stress, fatigue, and also simply a mess of traffic signs and billboards and so on. it should also be borne in mind that heavy traffic has a negative impact on accidents, especially those involving serious injuries or deaths. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport of dangerous goods is not subject to the same rules as those applied to road transport. traffic calming zones, city centre driving bans, etc. are not yet sufficiently studied and should not be used on a large scale. some problems are simply not dealt with enough, which is why i voted against.
in writing. − the asylum support office could be a useful institution, if it coordinates the return process and speeds up the return process. therefore, resettlement support would also be helpful. the report does not, however, express this important objective to me in a very general way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore abstained.
in writing. − easy-to-implement energy-saving measures have been implemented many times in recent years, but it is difficult to estimate the actual energy saving potential that can be easily achieved without extremely complex renovations. the whole thing must not end up with magnificently renovated energy-efficient buildings standing empty because of exorbitantly rising rents. in general, even in the name of climate protection, the right to property of citizens must not be unduly interfered with during renovations. energy-saving solutions are sometimes very costly and not always fully developed, so it is not enough to simply prescribe something, but incentives must be provided. in view of the impending wage and social cuts, it is important to double-check and triple-check that the new regulations do not drive the simple builder or owner of the house into ruin. the impact of the energy project is not clearly measurable, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. − the european refugee fund (erf) also provides for the resettlement of refugees from third countries. 'resettlement' means the process whereby third-country nationals or stateless persons are transferred from a third country to a member state, at the request of the unhcr, based on their need for international protection, where they are allowed to stay: (a) in refugee status; or (b) in a status which confers the same rights and benefits as refugee status under national and union law; the measures proposed in the report will make the eu, which is already struggling with the problem of mass immigration, even more attractive to migrants. the unhcr figures confirm this. while the eu resettled around 5 000 people in 2008, there are currently around 750 000 people in need of resettlement worldwide. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − in many member states, including my home country of austria, the capacity to receive new refugees is already overstretched and the population rightly resists new reception centres and similar facilities. the report on the european refugee fund, which aims to promote the resettlement of refugees in the eu, is all the more incomprehensible. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - we have a schengen information system that works and can be expanded, and we have a multi-million euro project that seems to be going down the drain. it is time to stop digging the million-dollar grave and save what can be saved. if the eu really wants to spend millions more, then these should be spent on border protection or on the benefit of indigenous families. instead of issuing a 'capital allowance' for the reception of refugees, the geneva refugee convention is finally to be applied precisely, and it does not apply to the army of economic refugees. finally, we do not need a new asylum office that will only further expand the asylum jungle and the thicket of eu agencies that devour millions. until we have a functioning schengen information system, the schengen area must not be extended. the new proposals are not only ill-conceived but also counterproductive, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - education is important, but in practice good training and further training has long ceased to be a guarantee of employment, let alone good jobs. instead of investing in appropriate skills training, all sorts of card schemes are being used to transport low-skilled people to the eu, and transitional periods in the labour market are being dismissed as useless. in the context of the framework mentioned, the education programme is not sufficient, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on ethical issues in business management, mainly because i support the european parliament's call for the promotion of women in management positions and the call for the european commission to submit a proposal to this effect to introduce a system for the appointment of company bodies and other bodies and posts. i am also sorry that my amendment to make this compulsory was not included in the final resolution. i would have liked the european parliament to have made more ambitious demands. in the context of pay policy, i would also like to point out the serious differences that exist in reality and to stress that the principles of equal pay and equal treatment for men and women, as enshrined in the european directives, must be respected and promoted. i am in favour of making these principles binding on all member states and of introducing the possibility of appropriate sanctions for non-compliance.
in writing. - young people are particularly affected by the current crisis. in view of the increasing youth unemployment, it is important to improve educational opportunities. while we are still talking about grants at eu level, red pen is already being used in universities in the eu countries. and if we really want to help young people, we must also put an end to the phenomenon of the 'perpetual trainee'. the measures presented are at best a declaration of intent, but given the circumstances in this crisis period, they will hardly be sufficient to make a real difference. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - once again, the organic label promises something quite different from what is actually contained - just think of the 'organic cotton scandal' or the recent bio-chemical slippers. firstly, there is a new confusion on labelling and labelling in the organic market, which means that the eu could finally achieve a meaningful unification, something it is usually very happy to do, and secondly, it is time for the eu to tackle genetically modified cotton. if we are waiting for studies on the possible effects of harmful substances, then in the meantime, genetically modified cotton should at least be mentioned on the label. and it is high time that the eu also addressed the issue of 'radio frequency identification'. it is not acceptable that electronic labels be affixed to textiles without the knowledge of those concerned, and the relevant labelling regulations are still to be drawn up. if pedestrians are to be made visible on rfid clothing, it will be possible to monitor every step. i voted in favour of this report because it also sees it that way.
in writing. − ukraine, a large and important partner of the eu among its eastern neighbours, has been hit hard by the global economic crisis. for this reason, the provision of macro-financial assistance of up to eur 500 million in the form of a loan as proposed by the commission should be approved. these funds were used to cover the country's general balance of payments needs and its external financing needs as identified by the international monetary fund (imf). the eu is also supporting ukraine in strengthening its long-term macroeconomic stability, as it is also an important trading partner of the eu. but it was also important to me that the assistance provided from the eu budget was not only in line with the imf programme but also with the main principles and objectives of eu policy towards ukraine. the eu's assistance will help to initiate further necessary structural reforms in ukraine on the basis of positive conditionality. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted against mrs trüpel's report. i am therefore firmly opposed to the increase in the secretarial allowance and to any increase in the number of officials in the european parliament. the argument that the lisbon treaty will create more work for meps has yet to be proven. if this is the case, the only solution in times of exploding public debt is more efficiency, not more bureaucracy. there is enormous potential for efficiency in this house and it would be easy to increase the workforce even with less staff and less money.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i am particularly concerned that legally binding social and environmental standards should be included in international free trade agreements. it is particularly important to me that the european union applies the principle of the social market economy not only within the eu but also abroad. the partners in free trade agreements must meet certain standards, otherwise i am in favour of stopping negotiations with countries which do not meet such standards.
in writing. − statistics show that heavy goods vehicles are the main cause of road accidents. it's all the more important that the vehicle is in perfect condition. attention is reduced by fatigue almost as much as by alcohol. consequently, in the interests of public safety, it is necessary to ensure that these rules are complied with. it is important that the same conditions apply to employees as to the selfemployed, so that more and more people are not forced into pseudo-independence and exploited to the limit or beyond their capacity. however, fines are often not suitable to guarantee compliance with rest periods, which is only possible by stopping a vehicle. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. yes, it is true, it is a matter of life and death. that is why the debate is so highly charged. in europe, there are completely different systems for organ transplantation and for how to express one's consent or dissent, whether one's own organs may be used, or whether relatives may consent to a transplant. in future, countries with very restrictive systems should, on the basis of this report, look closely at the examples of other countries to see the positive effects. because when so many people are waiting for transplants, that's a signal to us to not only create more options and access, but also to ensure quality, safety and access. this would also be an important instrument against the really unworthy trade in organs and would allow for better regulation of live transplants, which should really be free of charge.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i too would like to join the previous speakers in starting with a sentence that reads: life is beautiful! i keep hearing this phrase from a former colleague, deputy governor ernst höger, who suffered a severe heart attack from a tick bite and was fortunate enough to receive a suitable heart donor in december 2004. ernst höger is still on the road today, he is among us, full of life, full of strength and he tells us: life is beautiful. we have heard the figures today: 55 000 to 60 000 europeans are waiting to be able to say in the future, as ernst höger did: 'life is beautiful'. 12 of them are going out of us every day because our systems are simply not ready to deliver the organs that are available elsewhere to those who need them in a timely manner. that is why we have the task of implementing it. i believe that this action plan is very important, that we must ensure the safety of organ donation and the safety of transplants, that we must also ensure the safety of living donors, who are just as much needed - i am thinking here of the many dialysis patients - who must be assured of the best medical standards, and that we must fight the organ trade with all our might, that is to say, that voluntary and unpaid donation is the most essential thing. we have to guarantee that the donors are okay with it. we must also develop the systems in europe so that we can overcome the large differences between one donation per million citizens in some member states and the almost 40 donations that the european champion spain claims to have. we should work with our national health systems to implement the action plans as quickly as possible and to guarantee the highest standards so that the 55 000 who are waiting now can say 'life is good'.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. more than 55,000 patients are on the waiting list for an organ transplant. almost ten people die every day during this time. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the implementation of the directive.
i have to say, madam president, i have followed the discussion very closely. words paint pictures in the mind. today, there has been a lot of talk about illegal organ trafficking, about something illegal and about trafficking. i think that directive is pretty clear that the trade in organs is itself illegal. we can't send the signal that organ trafficking might be legal. i would ask the members to emphasize in their appearance before the media that we want organ donation, something where on the one hand there is nothing to be gained but gratitude and on the other hand there is the will to help someone live longer. so there can be no illegal organ trade because there can be no organ trade! it's all about organ donation!
the commission has already done so. public services and social services are affected by gigantic economic and political upheavals, reinforced by national austerity packages. we are faced with growing income inequality in the european union. but it is precisely in times of uncertainty, economic crisis, fear of the future that social stabilisers are more important than ever. in my home town of vienna, the basic idea of social housing is to provide affordable housing for a wide range of people, not to limit it to disadvantaged citizens or socially vulnerable groups, as the commission defines it. this creates ghettoization. i am therefore not going to hide my opinion: it should be a principle or right of local self-government to define social services and thus social housing itself and to exclude social services from competition and aid law. in any case, we need legal clarity in the european union and a legal instrument at the european union level to define and cover social services accordingly.
the commission has already done so. as a neighbour of the swabian sea, i appeal to you to take the accident, the disaster in mexico, as seriously as if it had happened in our lake! they would have no drinking water and in my hometown there would be no carnivals, with all the dramatic consequences and much more. what do you mean, "i'm not"? are you sure that the oil rigs far away from us - in the north sea and the baltic sea - can really withstand the other storms that we have to expect in the context of climate change? are you sure that your european maritime agency is actually equipped? you said you had good coordination. we have often experienced that radio contact between different countries did not work. did you check that before you went to the er? if something does happen, what is the legal situation regarding lawsuits against the oil companies? would a hedge fund make sense? the last point: are you aware that the regulatory authorities in the united states have been far too closely intertwined with the oil industry? can you exclude the possibility that we are not facing the same problems at european level? it's not like you can do anything but...
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this debate is timely. we have not yet solved the problems in the gulf, and we do not know where the next problems will occur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has taken the right path in reducing co2 emissions by 20% and replacing them with renewable energy, and we can achieve a great deal by increasing efficiency. do you think that we can jointly set up new initiatives with norway in the european economic area, for example?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and as the shadow rapporteur on biodiversity, i am of course personally concerned by this disaster. here, much that could be kept alive is destroyed. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. but accidents happen not only on oil platforms, but also in nuclear power stations. there is a saying in austrian: "something always has to happen before something else happens". other in english: must there always be a disaster before we learn from it? the oil disaster should make us think whether the phase-out of nuclear power is not also a way forward for europe. we should also focus all our mental energy and our financial resources on investing in renewable energy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the closure of european airspace was undoubtedly a necessary preventive measure in the interests of safety. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the airspace is not blocked for the second time. i am sorry to say that this has obviously not been successful, either in coordinating the measurements, in the evaluations or in the sense of the passengers. the second time, the treatment of passengers waiting for flights that were downgraded was extremely inadequate in terms of information and this needs to be improved as a matter of priority. i wonder when there will be any real plans. the commission has also not given a very detailed answer to the question concerning the finances and possible compensation of the airlines. this is a key question because this is a subject that is constantly and still under discussion. how are we supposed to solve this? who's going to be compensated anyway? the airlines? do they pass the money to the passengers? for example, do businessmen who miss important appointments receive compensation? does a dealer, a company that had to wait for spare parts, get compensation? why just the airlines? i do not think that is justified when compared with the economic impact of this crisis as a whole! we must also take into account that by abolishing the kerosene tax, airlines will in the end be receiving a permanent subsidy from the european citizens, and therefore will naturally have a subsidy from the outset. the commissioner has asked this question and i expect you to answer it.
the commission has already done so. i want to thank you for your steadfastness in matters of passenger safety. we have seen in recent days that speculation seems to be taking place not only in the financial sector but also that passenger safety is being treated quite generously by some airlines, at least in words - fortunately not yet in deeds. it's not just about the passengers in the air, it's also about the people on the ground. i can ask you to continue to work in this direction, but i can also ask you to continue to work in the direction of passenger information and passenger rights! we have learned in the last few days that not everyone and not every age group has unlimited access to the internet. the telephone lines were down, the internet was not available, and people who were not regular business travellers like us, who are sitting in this chamber, tourists and elderly people, had very little information. i would ask you to continue to work in this direction.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are talking about the disruption of air traffic and also its economic impact on aviation. i would like to stress once again that the safety of the citizens of europe is of the utmost importance. the commission has taken many steps, and now it is time to consider and implement concrete alternatives, such as the expansion of the transeuropean high-speed rail network, which can also contribute to reducing co2 emissions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there are 2,000 volcanoes in the world, and 50 are currently active. so it is not just a european problem, it is an international aviation problem. we must make it clear, particularly in research, where the risks actually lie and where there is also a certain range of responsibilities. i would therefore ask the commissioner to perhaps also instruct the european research council, together with eurocontrol, to carry out research here in order to assess the risk properly. the final responsibility is always that of the captain of an aircraft, and the consumer is also called upon to consider whether or not it poses a risk to him. anyone can avoid the risk by simply not flying. but an objectification of the whole question must be at the centre.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. mrs wortmann-kool is wrong in two respects: firstly, we do not want mr daul's farm to burn. we don't want a farm to burn at all, we want to take precautions, that's the direction of the target. secondly, we very much support the measures proposed by mr rehn, but they are short-sighted in some respects, precisely in this sense, because most measures are not proposed until mr daul's farm is already on fire. you are right in saying that we must prevent it from burning at all, and that is the crucial point i want to make. if mr lópez garrido said today that the decisions were being made with a desperate slowness, then it is also true that we have been desperately slow to notice what has happened in the european union over the last ten years. mr rehn rightly pointed out that the differences in competitiveness between the euro countries have increased rather than decreased. what you fail to mention, mr rehn, and what is very important to us, is that the gap between rich and poor is widening in europe. and while that may sound like marxism to a court-town, for us it is a matter of social security and social policy. but some men don't care about that. how can you convince people of the economic measures, the strict budgetary measures which you are rightly proposing, when people are aware that this europe and the eurozone are characterized by increasing differences between the rich and the poor? this is unacceptable and that is why there are more protests against the necessary measures than there should be. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it must succeed - and i give you full right to do so - to increase the competitiveness of countries such as greece, spain and so on. it is not a question of a deterioration in the conditions of competition in germany, the netherlands, austria or other countries, but of an improvement in the conditions of competition in the economically weaker countries. that is a perfectly correct strategy, but your communication, mr rehn, lacks concrete measures on how you intend to implement it. you have raised the subject of labour market reform and pension reform today. that is true, but it is not enough to reform the labour market and pensions, that is also going to be in the budget. if we do not build up the infrastructure, if we do not also use all that is in europe 2020, including green technologies, etc., then we will not be able to achieve this goal. i would therefore ask you to bear in mind that competitiveness and social security must be strengthened in europe!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to speak out against the council's intolerable anti-european attitude. you are complaining about the crisis and you are now introducing an economic protectorate, but you are also responsible for many of the causes! they did not allow regulation when it was necessary. to give just one example: eurostat. the officials whom i have so often criticized - and whom i have also criticized in other areas - have rightly pointed out the problems in greece, and also in spain and portugal. the commission has requested that appropriate powers of inquiry be established for eurostat. and who blocked it? you from spain, from england - mr martin is not here - the germans, daul and his people from france and, yes, also the austrians, because you did not want to be looked at in the books themselves, because you knew that there was a lot hidden. this is also true of the former minister of finance, karl-heinz grasser, who is now playing around on german television shows instead of facing criminal charges in austria. what we really need, of course, is not emergency government. they will not do what the americans have done sensibly in a similar crisis, which is to pass a glass-steagall act, to increase the equity of banks accordingly, to curb the shadow banks, to reduce the systemic risks. what we need instead is democratic legitimacy, a two-chamber system that finally puts an end to this mischief of the council, which is so pro-european on the outside but which makes its decisions without democratic legitimacy on the inside, so that we can achieve a real democracy in europe!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. firstly, the crisis has shown us very clearly the limits of the treaties, our own weaknesses, the double standards in dealing with the european union, the deficits, the mistakes and the lack of seriousness. second, it makes it clear that those who do not do their homework are harming themselves and endangering the community. this applies first of all to the member states, but also to the commission and to ourselves. thirdly, if the european union sets objectives, rules, procedures and sanctions, the commission cannot be dependent on the consent of the member states if it wants to do what it is obliged to do. we need to automate the deficit and sanctions procedure. fourthly, to the council: end the eurostat blockade! eurostat must be able to check in the member states when they want, and its staff must be able to talk to whoever they want and think it is right. information is fine, prior authorization is not! fifthly, they are addressing the hedge funds. we haven't decided yet. i would invite the council to negotiate very quickly with parliament so that we can adopt the hedge fund regulation at first reading before the summer. sixthly, on the transaction tax: if we do not demand it, we will implement it! the commission should make a proposal as soon as possible on the european proposal for a transaction tax. eighth to the council: to the council: we commit ourselves commit to an eu-wide compatibility assessment of all national laws with eu relevance. ninthly, we need a study of the impact of all measures on the real economy, and we need more europe and less intergovernmentalism. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. and now it is being said that the single currency also needs a common, centrally controlled economic policy, something like a european economic government. weak economies, and this is certainly true, must be subject to strict budgetary control and strict control of their debt policies if they wish to remain in the euro area. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. that would be to expel the devil with beelzebub! the crisis must not therefore be used as a pretext for further eu centralisation, something we have not seen since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. if we really want to learn from the present crisis, we may have to find another, a very different, construction for european monetary policy: perhaps something like a european hard currency union in a core europe, a monetary union in which economies that do not meet the convergence criteria exclude themselves from the euro zone. we know that austerity programmes will soon be the rule throughout europe. and one thing is clear: if the member states have to save, if the citizens have to save, then the european union itself must save, for example by checking its jungle of agencies for overlapping and duplicative powers and by putting budgetary control in the forefront. and we as a parliament will also have to consider whether, in times of general austerity, an increase in our staff budgets, as provided for in the secretarial allowance, is really the right signal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need to address the roots of the current crisis in the eu 2020 strategy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european monetary system. i'm not going to. the euro must not turn the eu into a giant redistributive machine based on forced solidarity. if monetary union, then hard currency union! the free financial markets cannot be considered separately from the real economy in the future either. we therefore need clear rules against speculators, clear rules against hedge funds by 2020. the path taken by austria and yesterday by germany towards a financial transaction tax is certainly a correct one with regard to the taxation of profits of banks and the financial sector. let us send a message to our taxpayers and let us finally take the financial sector into our service! and more courage in the rules of the game for the states! anyone who knowingly operates with false figures is out of the eurozone, quite simply. cheating is flying!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the 2020 strategy presents us with a particular challenge. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need a strong sme in europe because two thirds of the workforce work there, because 50% of the gross national product is generated there and because 80% of taxes come from small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has simply forgotten to include in this programme objectives to strengthen small and mediumsized enterprises. i would like to ask you, commissioner rehn, to take action here on behalf of small and mediumsized enterprises and to formulate objectives to strengthen these enterprises and their employees.
mr president, commissioner, high representative, i would like to thank you for your work. we are talking today about a common european economic policy. i think it is high time we realised that the market is not a value in itself, that europeans should not serve the market, but that the market should serve the people, the 500 million europeans. i am convinced that we need consolidation and growth, but both terms are always linked to another aspect, namely socially acceptable consolidation on the one hand and sustainable growth on the other. to do that, we need to have faith. the people of europe need prospects. but we can only give them these prospects if we can promise them, or put in place the measures, that they will live in a europe whose prosperity they can share. growth that benefits only a few cannot be the europe of the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can only echo the words of my predecessor. i am also very grateful that this motion was adopted today by a large majority. when we hear the figures that there are currently 56 000 europeans waiting to be provided with a suitable organ in order to live with a certain quality of life, a high quality of life and sometimes not at all, it was urgent that we should standardise, improve and make available access to suitable organs throughout europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too voted today in favour of the resolution against the use of thrombin as a food additive, because the commissioner's arguments were not convincing today. we do not want any meat in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. we have to give the consumers who want a steak a steak and not glued meat. today that means asking the commission not to approve this thrombin.
in writing. - if the energy label is introduced, it will soon become clear whether it is accepted by consumers, if it is understandable to them. consciousness has changed in this respect, so that more attention is paid to energy efficiency classes, especially in the case of electrical appliances. of course, the public procurement procedure should set a good example, but it cannot be imposed on member states to procure only products with the highest level of performance and energy efficiency class. in the coming economic times in particular, the purchase price will be an increasingly decisive criterion. the choice of candidates in the tendering procedure is not sufficiently clear, so i abstained.
in writing. − organ transplants can save lives, but only if healthy organs from a suitable donor are transplanted. unfortunately, mistakes have been made in the past, which makes it all the more important to set quality and safety standards here. it should also be mentioned that although some muslims are happy to receive organ donations, they are generally excluded as donors on the basis of their religion. i hope that the report will contribute to higher standards of quality and safety, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted against the proposal by some members to divide a week of sitting into two parts, but to keep them all together. apart from the fact that this is not very sensible, the extra travel would not only create unnecessary costs, but would also waste valuable working time.
in writing. - it is essential that additives be regulated, particularly in view of the increase in allergies and food intolerances and the continuing development of new knowledge in this field. and it is particularly important, in the light of past scandals, that consumers are not misled. it would be desirable to have more research into the safety and tolerability of certain additives such as aspertam, but this was not the subject of this resolution. i still said yes.
in writing. - i am opposed to the addition of thrombin and the associated joining of different pieces of meat, usually with inferior pieces. the consumer is usually ignorant and deceived, but on the other hand there are no proven benefits for the consumer from this practice. i therefore voted in favour of the report which seeks to restrict these practices.
in writing. - i supported the resolution because i believe that the accession of the european union to the echr is good for legal certainty and coherence. the european court of human rights has issued a series of decisions in recent decades that give concrete expression to the defence of the fundamental rights of women. accession as the european union also contributes to the union's credibility vis-à-vis third countries.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think it is very nice that regional commissioner hahn and internal market commissioner barnier are sitting side by side, because it is an important message that we are not playing regional policy against the single market, but that the one complements the other and both must be strong if we are to achieve the europe 2020 goals. europe 2020 must start today and now and must not be just a list of targets. europe 2020 is a project for growth and jobs, and we need concrete projects, we need the instruments, we need the procedure, we need the sanction mechanisms to make it a success. i am convinced that we can only achieve europe 2020 if we are prepared to think of europe, the eu as the united states of europe! to think and everyone must do their part for the whole! europe 2020 is about wanting to achieve political union. this requires that we strengthen and extend monetary union, that we strengthen and extend the internal market, that we take the shackles off it and call on the people: seize the opportunity europe, use europe, break into cross-border! and we must create economic union as part of political union, as well as social union. none of this is finished. some things haven't even been touched yet. europe 2020 is a europe of the community, not a europe of nationalism and blockage. so we need a cash crunch, the eu's compatibility checks, the implementation of the small business act and, of course, very concrete european projects for growth and employment and the extension of freedoms in europe to education, science, research and innovation. (the speaker agrees to answer a question by means of a blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8).)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. each of us, who represent and are in constant contact with the citizens of europe, has one objective: to develop europe with the citizens of europe, to make it more competitive, to create growth and jobs for the benefit of the citizens of europe. if we do not work together more and if we do not do our homework, this community will not be strengthened but weakened in times of increasing globalisation. the citizens are our most important allies in achieving our common objectives.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the year of the world cup, the ladies and gentlemen in the council could learn a lesson from football, because a referee behind every football player is not a good match! but a game with no rules, no referee, and no fouls to be punished, that's chaos. and that is exactly the situation now! it is high time that the 2020 strategy put a stop to hedge fund speculation. those who have lived well for years on speculation and exorbitant interest are now expected to contribute. it is not the small savers who should be in the bank, but the companies with their high speculative profits! the euro crisis must also be taken into account in cohesion policy. apart from the current rescue package, greece has benefited disproportionately from agricultural and regional aid in the past. without the necessary structural changes, this money is clearly under-invested and the country is under-managed, despite years of support. i therefore do not see why the funds should continue to flow in such a situation. why do we not listen to commissioner rehn, who has quite reasonably proposed to cut subsidies? the eu must not become a transfer union! and a centrally planned economy, as some imagine, has never worked, even if it comes from brussels. what's the matter? self-responsibility in budgetary policy, and if that does not work, bold and efficient sanction mechanisms - all of this should also be part of the 2020 strategy!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when we talk about europe 2020, we are talking about the future of our continent, and above all: where are we going? what kind of lives should our citizens be able to lead here? i think that we must first analyse the actual situation in order to find the right instruments to achieve these objectives. it is also important to distinguish between cause and effect. what are the big problems we face today? i think one of them is certainly the ageing of our european societies. unfortunately, we are not currently making europe attractive enough for people to start families and have children. this means that we will have a very strong pressure on public budgets in the future because our pension systems are in danger of being underfunded. secondly, we already have large government deficits. in the crisis, we spent a lot of money, according to the classic keynesian doctrine. now is the time to save. but that also means that, of course, there will be pressure on our currency as a whole. we see this in the greek crisis, and the problem that we have here is that we haven't really managed to make our economy competitive enough to create economic growth to deal with these high government deficits. we have rules here in europe on these matters, like the stability and growth pact, but unfortunately no one is following them at the moment! that is one of the main problems. we are creating new rules, but i think sometimes it would be much better to stick to existing rules just so that they can really have their full effect. i therefore call for a certain degree of firmness on the part of the commission in particular, so that we can achieve these agreed objectives.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are talking about europe 2020 and its key priorities. the greek crisis clearly teaches us to act rather than react. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the budget. for our citizens, we must look to investments for growth and jobs to reduce unemployment and create and safeguard jobs. this also means strengthening the education sector and investing in education, research and innovation as the foundations of a sustainable social market economy, a sustainable and more environmentally conscious economy.
i have to say, madam president, the interlinking of business and higher education has been a reality for many years. this situation has led to the present mindless schematic, with partially privatised universities acting like controlling companies, which are supposed to make educational output predictable. the fact that such a partnership is suddenly supposed to contribute to modernisation only shows how sleepy and uncreative our education policy debate is. we live in a time of technological revolution. digital systems are changing us, they are changing how we act, how we think, and our cognitive abilities, yes, they are changing our brains. so what we need is a revolution in research and teaching that fits this circumstance. in such a period of upheaval, to continue to promote the dependence of universities on this subsystem of our society as a step towards modernisation, even though this interconnection has not led to any significant improvement in the last ten years, also ignores the importance of teaching and research for society as a whole. what we really need in this time of change is scientific curiosity and creativity. but these are the result of the freedom to think, not to submit to any constraint, and therefore not to the demands of the economy. a young mind, a young brain with potential, needs to be able to move freely. what you are presenting here in your report is the exact opposite. the report is an expression of an outdated and failed way of thinking. the whole report is uncreative, yes, it is useless! it is a chain of clumsy phrases on many pages, so that it does not appear to be lacking in substance. in the austrian education system, you would get a perfect five for this report.
i have to say, madam president, thank you for letting me speak to you again. it seems my colleague doesn't know the difference between education and education. in times when technology takes away much of our work, it is becoming more and more important that universities train citizens to be mature and critical people. that's what we need. we need people who are able to critically question social processes. that is not the aim of the economy. the economy wants to educate people, that's their right, that's right. but this is just a requirement of a subsystem of our society, and it's not a reflection of what we need in a society as a whole. let me just say again, perhaps briefly, that we need scientific creativity and scientific curiosity. i don't think, and i certainly don't believe, that the economy is in a position to buy this curiosity and this creativity that we so desperately need with its financial input. i'm not going to.
in writing. during the accession negotiations in 2005, bulgaria agreed to shut down and subsequently decommission units 1-4 of the kosloduy nuclear power plant. the eu was originally supposed to provide financial support for the decommissioning until 2009. the commission is now planning to extend the financial assistance until the end of 2013, with a target of €300 million. it is obviously necessary to support bulgaria in the closure of kosloduy and the associated economic and environmental problems, such as the safe disposal of radioactive waste, the promotion of renewable energy resources or the retraining of staff. however, the grant must be accompanied by a detailed breakdown of the various projects, strict financial control and a regular review of the use of the funds. but we must not allow any back door financing to be used to finance the second bulgarian nuclear power plant in belene! in addition, bulgaria is currently looking for european investors for belene and a use of the decommissioning funds would be appropriate. we must prevent this! accurate reporting and strict on-the-spot checks by the commission, the european parliament and the court of justice are therefore essential!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the mediterranean union was established two years ago to follow up the barcelona process and to provide for closer links between the mediterranean countries and the eu. but this process has apparently stalled because of the conflicts between the arab states and israel. the eu has signed association agreements with israel and is providing financial aid - 440 million euros alone - for the reconstruction of the gaza strip! the eu citizens are right to ask why their taxpayers' money is being pumped into the gaza strip when everything is being bombed on a regular basis and to demand that consequences be drawn. it is also possible that hamas is benefiting from these funds. the eu has not been able to act as an impartial mediator in gaza for all these years. the mediterranean union summit in barcelona, scheduled for the beginning of june, is now threatened with failure because of the conflict between israel and the arab states. i think it is particularly in times of crisis that projects should be evaluated more closely and, if necessary, abandoned. we cannot afford to have mere prestige projects and million-dollar tombs in times of crisis.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the mediterranean has been the cradle and engine of european culture for thousands of years, and therefore a joint approach is welcome. however, the mediterranean is also a bridge for almost unrestrained immigration into the eu. and one of the most important problems in the mediterranean, illegal immigration, we believe falls within the six main strategic areas and therefore needs to be urgently supplemented. only a joint approach in the mediterranean countries, involving the north african countries, can help to bring the flow of illegal immigration under control. only then can we stem the flow of refugees where they originate. in this context, the eu must focus on combating poverty, raising awareness and educating the countries of origin, in addition to fighting organised trafficking. it is necessary to make it clear to those who want to emigrate that the supposedly golden europe cannot provide for every job, for every prosperity, for every asylum, and that the end of some sad odysseys is deportation.
in writing. the union for the mediterranean, which was launched on the basis of the barcelona process almost two years ago with france in the lead, still faces many challenges. political dialogue between the eu and our southern neighbours is not limited to migration and economic agreements, but also covers areas such as disaster prevention, energy and the environment. the mediterranean regions are affected by water scarcity and drought; in 2007, one third of europeans lived in regions where water resources are scarce. this problem is even more acute in the maghreb countries, which do not have sufficient technical or financial resources to use water more efficiently. in the event of sudden and heavy rainfall, flooding can also cause more damage due to the infrastructure deficits in these regions. water is the basis of all life and therefore financial and economic cooperation must be strengthened. only through better cooperation between the mediterranean countries can projects that improve environmental protection be implemented.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank mr kirilov for his extensive work, which, as has already been said, makes a valuable contribution to our strategy in this region. when i was in this region recently, in tbilisi, someone, though from another country in this region, said that regional cooperation was a concept that was being imposed on the region by europe. this reflects the thinking of some politicians and officials in this region. we do not want cooperation, but if europe wants it, then we may have no other choice. we must be clear that regional cooperation has been the basis for unity and peaceful development in europe, and it must be the same in this region. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. this region is important not only for europe but also for its neighbours. i am speaking in particular to turkey. this is a neighbor that we can work very well with in this region. i would like to see a package solution found in the near future for the two problems for which turkey is or could be partly responsible, namely with regard to its neighbour armenia on the one hand, and also with regard to nagorno-karabakh on the other. there is nothing to prevent the armenian troops from leaving at least those provinces of azerbaijan outside nagorno-karabakh. this would also create the conditions for a better relationship between armenia and turkey. we in this group, mr severin and myself in particular, have repeatedly promoted the idea of an eu-black sea union because we believe that cooperation between this region and the eu, but also with neighbours turkey and russia, would be very important. and i believe that what is being done in the report could be continued in such a union. it's still a vision, but i hope it will soon become a reality.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i too, like my predecessors, would like to thank the rapporteur, mr kirilov, very warmly for the good cooperation and also for the good quality of the report, which is indeed a very comprehensive one. i would like to mention a few points which have not been mentioned so much but which are very important to me. the fact is that these three frozen conflicts which still exist in this region are a major obstacle to the full development of european neighbourhood policy, not only in terms of neighbourhood policy but also in the countries themselves. it's relatively easy when you have an external enemy, real or imagined. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is to say, the need to move away from high military spending, which we also criticise in this report, which has also increased in recent years, towards spending which actually benefits the population in the social, cultural and ecological fields. these are the central elements of this report, and i am glad that it has been received. another aspect, which is also mentioned in the tagliavini report on the georgian-russian conflict, is the need for disarmament at the intellectual and linguistic level, i.e. to combat inflammatory language and manipulative historiography. all this is essential if we are to make real progress on peace in this region. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. that is still the case. an example from azerbaijan: two young bloggers who dared to criticize the government are still in prison, six months in, and have not been released. freedom of the press is a problem in all countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. the regional dimension, crossborder cooperation are important. we also support the commission's efforts to continue working together in this area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in order to reduce europe's dependence on russia for energy supplies, natural gas from the caspian basin is to be piped through the south caucasus to the eu. the caucasus is thus playing a key role. this region is not only the world's largest transit point for gas and oil, but also a place where the interests of russia and the west are in conflict, and even turkey wants to intervene. the commission is seeking to conclude a stability and cooperation pact in addition to the oil and gas agreements. stability in the caucasus is undoubtedly also in the eu's interest, but we cannot leave this project to turkey, otherwise new dependencies and even means of pressure will arise in the accession process. turkey is not very picky, as the example of cyprus shows. the ongoing power struggles over europe's natural gas supply are already delaying the construction of the long-planned nabucco pipeline project. hopefully, the rival south stream project will be more successful, so that the caspian resources are not lost to china.
in writing. - the report is going in the wrong direction. it is time to protect the companies of the various member states from the global financial crisis and to set clear rules for speculators and the free market. instead, cultural and economic differences in markets, companies and business practices are being abandoned in favour of a globalised market. i have voted against the report for these reasons.
in writing. the commission's communication calls for the granting of genuine autonomy to universities. such autonomy would go hand in hand with financial autonomy, and that is unrealistic in the coming age of the savings bank. as examples show, cooperation between educational institutions and industry can be very fruitful. the intensified dialogue now being encouraged in the bologna process is too little formulated, and that is why i abstained.
in writing. - until there is a satisfactory solution to the disposal of radioactive waste, it is not surprising that the candidate countries do not know which option to focus on. what cannot be is that eu financial aid is paid to increase the protection of people and the environment and the fuel elements are then sold, while the possibility of their use for military purposes cannot be ruled out. of course, it would be in the interests of the safety and the environment of the whole of europe if a solution to the disposal of nuclear waste were found, the resale of nuclear waste must be stopped in any case. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty. the present report shows some problems in connection with nuclear power and the closure of nuclear power stations, which is why i agreed to it.
in writing. − innovation is important, it cannot be dictated from the top down, as the strategy 2020 paper attempts to do, but can be supported by funding programmes. it is not very useful for an applicant to face a bottleneck in terms of funding bodies and regulations, because there is no coordination between the eu and the member states. any step towards simplification is a good one, as long as it does not open up the possibility of abuse. the approaches described in the report seem to be good, and i have agreed with them.
in writing. - it seems that we are providing funds for disadvantaged areas, which then end up in comparatively prosperous regions. the eu is faced with a number of shortcomings in its promotion policy. on the one hand, money is being invested in village renewal to prevent the rural area from dying out, on the other hand, these efforts are being countered by privatisation and liberalisation legislation. a great village centre is of no use if the village is virtually cut off from the public transport network and the post office ceases to operate. the report does not deal enough with the problems of cohesion policy, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. - while the mediterranean union is seen by some in europe as a prestige project of individual statesmen, i consider the increased cooperation of the mediterranean countries to be a positive development. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's external borders are not crossed. the mediterranean union, with its structures, is a good opportunity to support the work of frontex and, in particular, to involve african countries in projects to stop economic refugees in africa as soon as possible. the various projects which are being undertaken, such as the increased exchange of students and the numerous economic programmes to promote trade between the eu and african countries, are also to be welcomed. but these countries should not be pressured into agreeing to a free trade area, as there is a great risk that local and regional markets could suffer great damage. although i do not entirely agree with some of the points for the reasons i have mentioned, the report is quite balanced and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - the present report on the eu strategy is unfortunately not balanced. i have already referred to this in the foreign affairs committee. the commission has already taken account of some of my amendments in committee, but the report is still going in the wrong direction. instead of adopting a neutral and balanced position on the georgian question, the formulations of us foreign policy aimed at weakening and encircling russia are adopted. the eu is also moving away from its previous position on relations with armenia, in particular the situation in nagorno karabakh, which is completely incomprehensible and must be rejected. the rapporteur was allegedly never on the spot, so he could not have a personal picture of the situation. for these reasons i voted against the kirilov report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the drastic economic situation naturally also requires radical cuts in the eu budget, and i cannot find these priorities and, above all, the courage to do so in this report. quite the opposite! the budget is not being increased enough. the report is therefore a 'continuation' which does not really make any progress either way. it would be easy to make big savings with seemingly small things, especially in the administrative area. i am thinking, for example, of the area of the eu agencies. closure or merger could save half a billion euros in a year without any real reduction in the quality of administrative services. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am sure that in a year's time we can easily save two hundred million here and, if the buildings are sold, another hundred million. or maybe on ourselves: we could start saving on ourselves too. for example, we could all together do away with business class travel within europe. we can also make a really sensible contribution in this way. what i liked about this report - and i would like to mention this - was the priority given to lifelong learning. the first priority should be the leonardo da vinci programme. the exchange of apprentices is very important. perhaps we should also create a financial instrument which would enable all those citizens who wish to benefit from this citizens' initiative to have their costs at least partly covered.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a few comments on the 2011 budget. on immigration: instead of containing the flood of migration into europe and securing the external borders, frontex's budget is to be cut in 2011. the eu is also working to improve the quality of life for people with disabilities. such a budgetary policy is illogical and will open the door to illegal immigration and abuse of asylum. the eu's external financial assistance to palestine is to be cut. instead, there is a substantial increase in the budget for enlargement, such as for turkey, which is a candidate country. i would like to know why turkey, which is making more progress than progress, is now being rewarded with more money. eight million a year is a lot of money. in the administrative field, parliament must finally put a stop to the creation of new agencies. it is not appropriate for the eu to have an agency for every problem in times of economic crisis. the specific added value of each existing agency must also be examined and controlled.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur very warmly. i would like to endorse the contribution made by mr färm on youth policy and the promotion of young people. we have set ourselves the task of creating jobs and growth, and that is the great objective for the next few years. i think it is essential that we also pay greater attention to ensuring that this growth is sustainable on the one hand and that, in particular, the consolidation of the budget of the european union, but also of the individual budgets of the member states, ensures that this consolidation is socially compatible and that, above all, this consolidation does not forget the legitimate interests and demands of young people, namely their right to the best education and training and their right to a job. i believe that there is nothing more important for young europeans than to be able to use their skills. we will need them to remain competitive in europe in the future.
gradually. ladies and gentlemen, the 2011 budget is the first to be drawn up after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and is marked by crises. this is reflected in the very, very tight margins of the eu budget for 2011. this in turn could have a negative impact on the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. i would like to emphasize the positive aspect of the fact that youth is highlighted as a particular value for promotion. the specific support proposed in the draft budget does not meet the expectations of the european parliament. in the field of youth development in particular, much can be achieved with relatively little money. finally, i would like to point out that the €60 billion guaranteed by the eu budget following the council decision of 9 may 2010 may very well have an impact on the budget. thank you, thank you!
i have to say, madam president, the millennium development goals are undoubtedly important in ensuring that the poorest of the poor can live in dignity in their own country. those who have a decent livelihood in their homeland do not have to put themselves in the hands of smugglers. i would also like to emphasize the fight against serious diseases, especially among children and mothers. we should also take the pharmaceutical industry into account here and ensure that an increased supply of generics can be ensured. on the other hand, those who provide development aid should also expect cooperation. i expect the recipients to cooperate in returning illegal migrants to their countries of origin. finally, particular attention must be paid to the sustainable and traceable use of resources. tax money earned in a bad way must not be allowed to run down dark channels. one thing is clear: the capacity of our member states is very tight, and the sooner we recover, the sooner the eu recovers, the sooner we will be able to provide long-term, sustainable aid.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank mr cashman in particular. development aid and poverty reduction must not be a policy of charity, like the bread and butter principle. on the contrary, we need a reliable, predictable, sustainable framework that allows people to live and work in decent conditions and thus earn a living. we must not only look at anonymous figures, but we must also look at the people involved and their fate. we must not spend our energies on finding excuses and excuses why we cannot or will not meet our commitments, but we should spend our energies on seriously discussing proposals for financing development aid such as those made here - such as the financial transaction tax.
in writing. in the context of global demographic developments, rapid population growth and the continuing scarcity of resources, strong development cooperation measures are the order of the day. in achieving the millennium development goals, the eradication of poverty and hunger, access to education and improvement of health, including through the fight against disease, must be given top priority. the european community's approach to trade policy and international cooperation calls for a concrete contribution to development cooperation. the main objective must be to promote the autonomy, independence and self-initiative of the countries concerned. it is also necessary to ensure that financial measures in this area are effective and achieve their clearly defined objective. a key model for a sustainable, fair and circular economy, in my view, is the eco-social market economy, whose core area is small, structured, multifunctional agriculture. the aim of the millennium development goals should therefore be to promote a peasant model of agriculture that is independent and resilient to crises, that puts the peasant family at the centre and that encourages culturally mature know-how adapted to regional needs. this sustainable form of agriculture is capable of developing regional autonomy, ensuring food security and covering both ecological and social aspects.
i have to say, madam president, the present regulation on the creation of a european rail network for competitive freight transport will, in my view, have negative effects on railway operations throughout europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the network is not disrupted. on the contrary, the centralization and fragmentation of responsibilities add new difficulties: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not affected by the consequences of the accident. the eu cannot preach environmental friendliness, make car driving more expensive with bio-diesel regulations, and then cut off secondary lines from rail traffic with privatisation regulations and dictate freight corridors on the major routes at the expense of passenger traffic. especially during peak hours, it is important to be sensitive in order not to penalise commuters. the shift of responsibilities from national infrastructure managers to one-stop shops leads to a fragmentation of responsibilities and thus to an inflation of the bureaucratic apparatus. the weakening of the national authorities seems to be a means of gradually establishing european infrastructure operators, which is neither sensible nor appropriate. the rules contained in the regulation add to the loss of competence due to early route notifications a loss of capacity. the present compromise proposal must therefore be rejected in my view.
i have to say, madam president, rail rather than road should be the guiding principle of european freight transport policy in the 21st century, and instead of working on an extension of the eu directive on the authorisation of so-called gigaliners, our aim must be to move freight to rail. the railways should ultimately be faster, cheaper and attractive enough for freight to leave the road. what surprises me about the present draft is the fact that the brenner base tunnel is not mentioned in any of the drafts. it is, after all, the centrepiece of the 2 200 km long rail link from berlin to palermo and an essential project in the context of the transeuropean networks. as is well known, the funding on the italian side is completely unclear, and the eu refuses to make any legally binding funding commitments beyond 2013. the brenner base tunnel must not become a billionaire's grave. i expect to hear some clear words on this construction project. we owe that to the taxpayers and to the people north and south of the brenner base tunnel in italy and austria.
i have to say, madam president, this report is a step forward for europe. it is a good step towards creating a europe of law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. that's what it's all about. building trust. i would like to say that i would have liked it very much if the administrative penal proceedings had also been brought in, because now a very important complex of legal life is not covered. but i am aware, of course, that this is a very important and wide field. i hope that this will soon be met in the implementation of the stockholm programme.
i have to say, madam president, my predecessor described an ideal world in which the driver can choose to remain self-employed or to drive for a company. the reality on our roads in this industry is that unfortunately that choice no longer exists, that drivers are usually driven into self-sufficiency, into pseudo-self-sufficiency. this is the very big problem we are facing here, and if there is a private compromise between a member and the council, presented here as a general compromise, which does not take this issue into account, then we are working to promote social dumping in europe. do a local search of the streets at a checkpoint. look at what's really happening in this industry. look at the accidents and you will see that we europeans cannot work in this house for social dumping!
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i'm not going to tell you. the rapporteur, mrs bauer, has shown a lack of understanding of democracy by continuing to negotiate without a mandate, contrary to the committee's decision. if the european parliament is serious about creating growth and prosperity, then we members of parliament must reject the commission's proposal. self-employed drivers must not be excluded from the working time directive. it would be a step backwards, because the same rules must apply to selfemployed bus and coach drivers as to employees of a company. it cannot be our aim that fewer and fewer people work more and more and, in general, for less and less money. it cannot be our aim that bus and coach drivers endanger their own health and the safety of other road users.
i have to say, madam president, i believe that small and mediumsized enterprises in europe are particularly important at the moment because the only way we can really get out of the debt crisis is if we work more. there is no need to burden the selfemployed with more bureaucracy and paperwork. it is very important to increase productivity and competitiveness in order to guarantee social security in europe. the driving and rest periods we currently have with tachographs are therefore quite sufficient. i would ask those members who are campaigning for this to apply to everyone to apply it to themselves and to install a tachograph in their private cars accordingly and when they drive home on thursday after 15 hours of work to stop using the car. it is important that we ensure safety, but on the other hand protect the self-employed!
the commission has already done so. the task of politics and the task of the european parliament should be to further improve the quality of life of europeans. this includes a healthy environment, and this includes healthy food. in order to eat a healthy diet, i need this information as a consumer. we urgently need a workable, mandatory indication of origin so that the consumer can make a conscious choice about which food he or she buys from which region. on the other hand, we still need nutrition profiles, because only they guarantee that consumers are not deceived into thinking that a food is healthy, but that the ingredients are really beneficial to health and healthy eating. i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a very good answer to this question. this includes eating healthy food from a healthy environment and getting adequate exercise.
the commission has already done so. it is undeniable that there are health problems in the european union. it is also indisputable that consumer interests must be paramount and that food is not a normal commodity but something we eat and put into our bodies. it is therefore clear that we must exercise particular care when we talk about food and its labelling, and the precautionary principle as enshrined in the treaty has a place here. but it's also a foolish idea to think that food labelling can solve these problems. look at the united states: there are a lot of fat people, and americans have the most stringent food labels. we must therefore also consider how we deal with this problem here in europe. i therefore believe that, firstly, the proposed traffic light system is not effective, since it creates more confusion than information. secondly, i believe that a gda system, as proposed, can provide information which the consumer who wants to be informed may need in order to make the right choice. thirdly, i believe that the labelling of foodstuffs is particularly important. most consumers want to know where their food comes from and where it was produced. fourthly, i believe that health claims need to be scientifically supported in order to influence consumer decision-making. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. i would ask you to state when we can expect this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. three million european schoolchildren are obese, with 85,000 more added each year. obesity, of course, causes a number of chronic diseases, so it is important what we eat. so we are what we eat. in the consumer's mind, food labelling must be clear and comprehensible, indicating certain ingredients. i therefore welcome the idea that any consumer can quickly get an idea of the fat, sugar and salt content of a product. but what is also important to stress is the responsibility for the origin of the raw materials of a product. it is therefore important that someone takes responsibility for where the raw materials of a finished product come from. in this context, it is also very important that there should be consequences for this sensitive trade segment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
in writing. we have allocated around €90 million to this eu campaign to promote healthy eating among european schoolchildren. free fruit is intended to encourage nutritionally conscious behavior in children. so we spend millions to teach the young to eat apples and other fruits. and then there's a food labelling scheme that will have low sugar, low fat, low salt foods in green, high sugar foods in red. and suddenly, that apple that we've been advertising for millions of dollars, if it had a red sugar label, would be perceived as unhealthy. what the children would say about the eu would be unflattering. the harmful effects of processed foods, sweets, candy, and alcohol have been widely reported, even among those who are not so conscious about their diet. for those who want to be careful when shopping for health or for health reasons, a complete list of ingredients is much more important. this will help a diabetic to calculate the appropriate bread units, rather than having to guess the insulin intake. for the ten percent or so of consumers who seem to use nutrition labels, fuel and calories are appropriate. a color-blurring game, on the other hand, is not very effective.
a writer. mr president, commissioner olli rehn, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. today's debate is an important political signal that the european parliament wants to send at this time. it is also a sign of determination with this oral question in the midst of the process of restructuring eurostat and the preparation of the european parliament's opinion to the commission. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european statistical system is a very good one. it is the first direct legislative response to the experience in and with greece. at the same time, we must not forget that in 2005 the council rejected commissioner almunia's five-point plan, thereby preventing the commission from being equipped with the necessary instruments. we're catching up on what we could have done, should have done, a long time ago. i therefore urge both the commission and the council to show the political will to take all the instruments we need to ensure that the euro is not only a monetary union but also an economic union. i would ask the council not to block, not to delay, not to impede, but to give the commission these possibilities. we also want to know if there are any studies where there has been misconduct by eurostat and/or the member states in recent years, because only if we have a clear analysis can we also know what corrections and additions we have to make. what does the european parliament want? we want independence, we want comparability, hence minimum standards for the collection of statistics, minimum standards for the institutional set-up of the authorities and cooperation with the ecb. we want to expand the powers because we want to see all the data, including at the state and municipal level and in the social security systems. we want full cooperation, we want to strengthen the coordination function and we want to know from the commission before we conclude our report whether everything that has been agreed with the council is sufficient. we don't mean it. it is a minimum declaration, it is a catch-up, we have to take the next step towards more independence and comprehensive competences.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the debate on the extension of eurostat's powers does not really address the problem properly. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation. the eu must not, however, use greece and the current euro crisis as an excuse to completely erode the powers of the member states with regard to budgetary sovereignty. rather, the problem must be tackled at its root. the socioeconomic structures of the member states differ in some cases massively. eurostat, as the eu's numbers juggler, must also recognise this reality. for example, an unemployed person in london is different from an unemployed person in paris because the criteria for this term are interpreted differently. even more striking are the differences in socioeconomic realities between traditional hard and soft currencies. eurostat must not maintain the myth of comparability at any cost, but rather the comparability of the euro area countries must be fundamentally reconsidered.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all know that the amendment of the regulation on the quality of statistical data in the context of the excessive deficit procedure is a particularly important and urgent measure in view of the current problems in most of the member states' public budgets. without precise and clear data, it is difficult to decide and define further measures. it is therefore necessary to establish a control mechanism to ensure that the data submitted by the national authorities can be verified in a timely manner. in any case, it must not happen again, as in the case of greece, that it is only afterwards that one comes to the conclusion that far-reaching decisions have been taken on the basis of false or falsified data. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the data are not misused. the upgrading of eurostat and its development into an independent authority should therefore be considered in any case. this is not an interference with the budgetary authority of the member states, but rather an effective control of data.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have been informed that the candidate would like to make a statement first. we may have been misinformed, but if the candidate wishes to make a statement, you should give him the floor.
mr president, i would like to share a technical observation with you. here, the system works by first tapping yes, and then when you go to no, it still shows blue. if you want to show no, it shows nothing. so it's just a yes to no, and that's not technically a worthy process.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to let you know that after the vote so far, we have 789 members in this house. that's a little high. i hope that the future votes will not show 789 members.
in writing. − the european transparency initiative was launched years ago, but progress is limited. the disclosure of the beneficiaries has revealed, for example, in the field of agricultural subsidies, that the subsidies go to large corporations, royal houses, etc. if the eu is serious about transparency, then this should also be applied consistently in decision-making. the transparency initiative is still largely empty words, which is why i abstained.
in writing. − it is important and right that information is obtained on how public funding is actually allocated and who is actually benefiting from it. however, this must not lead to an excessively extensive commission competence, which would mean that member states would no longer be able to select projects and partners themselves. i therefore abstained.
in writing. - i voted against the compromise proposals for a regulation on the creation of a european rail network for competitive freight transport. it is a disempowerment of the national infrastructure authorities, which have so far worked very efficiently and effectively in the international arena. the measures proposed will also lead to more bureaucracy, which cannot be our aim. by this inflation we reduced the efficiency. capacity will be empty. i think that all this will have a negative impact on railway operations throughout europe. if the eu really wants to promote rail freight, then the implementation of the transeuropean transport networks must be prioritised. the complete extension of the southern corridor, with the so-called coral tunnel, would bring about an unprecedented shift to rail. that is what we should be promoting, not more centralism.
in writing. - the amendment of the rules of procedure is made necessary by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. in that respect, it is a formality. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this is particularly unfair and unjust, since it is to be lost in the debate on the major adjustments to the treaty of lisbon. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to appoint its own representatives. this is a unique democratic process which is unacceptable. in any parliament of a democracy worthy of the name, it is possible for a political group to choose its own representatives in certain bodies. but here it is proposed that the president, who belongs to one of the two major political parties, should decide who among the non-attached members is to be sent as a representative to the conference of presidents. in other words, the political opponent has the opportunity to choose a member of parliament who is politically acceptable to him. this is a scandal. in my view, the representative of the non-attached members can only be elected by a general meeting of the non-attached members. i therefore voted against the proposed amendment.
in writing. - natural disasters are becoming more frequent, causing people to lose their previously built-up existence. especially hard hit are those whose homes are flooded, rendering virtually the entire household useless or even destroyed. in addition, there is serious damage to arable and productive land, which costs a lot of money to repair, and which is often difficult or impossible for those affected to afford. i agree with the resolution because it is necessary to help people in their distress.
in writing. − the 2011 budget contains a number of serious criticisms: the commission is also proposing to increase the budget for the european refugee fund, which is helping to resettle asylum seekers in the eu, while cutting funding for frontex. the commission is also proposing to reduce financial aid to palestine, while substantially increasing the budget for eu candidate countries (e.g. turkey). i therefore voted against the report on the 2011 budget.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the mandate for the trilogue is of great importance to the european parliament, because it defines its negotiating position. budget planning for 2011 is again marked by crisis and recession, as reflected in the very tight margins but there are positive signs. one of the positive signals is that youth programmes are a priority. if the european union is to find a lasting way out of the crisis, it is essential to support our young people, because they are our future! the commission is also proposing to extend the mandate for a socially balanced eu budget, which also takes into account competitiveness, in view of the economic situation in europe. thank you, thank you!
in writing. - 1.5 billion people are already online and using the internet. now, with the internet of things, a new form of network technology is emerging that is supposed to be able to establish a kind of communication between people and things and things and things. the purpose of this is to store, receive and transmit information about products. however, it is to be feared that all the advantages of the new technology will bring many more disadvantages. the protection of privacy and the prevention of misuse of personal data must be ensured. however, the future internet user seems to be becoming even more glazed than he already is. i voted in favour of the report because the author's proposed measures are clearly required to protect privacy and personal data.
in writing. − in the case of new technological developments, in this case the so-called internet of things, it is always important to address ethical issues and to ensure the respect of personality rights, alongside possible advances. the report goes in that direction, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − on the internet, the two sides must work together to preserve freedom of expression and to combat cybercrime and its consequences. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud and corruption. but new problems have emerged, particularly in connection with the internet, such as data protection in social networks or in connection with projects such as google street view. the problems of recent internet developments have received little attention, which is why i abstained.
in writing. − research, innovation and education are important factors in a country's competitiveness. to remain innovative, companies have to invest a lot of money, which is often a problem, especially in the face of the credit crunch. it is essential that sustainable technologies be developed and promoted, especially at a time of increasingly scarce resources. once again, rural regions are to be supported on the one hand by promoting the expansion of broadband internet in these areas, while at the same time rural areas are cut off from infrastructure by privatisation of railways, post and so on. and while we are still talking about the importance of universities and research institutes, the funds for these institutions are being reduced. as always, the importance of smes is highlighted in this context, but it remains to be seen whether action will follow. the report contains essentially a repetition of old measures, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - poverty reduction has been one of the main objectives of development policy since its inception. however, not only has little been achieved in recent decades, but development efforts have often been reversed. of particular concern is the use of money from the industrialized nations in some countries to keep dictators or ruling classes in power and to oppress the poor masses. even the hunger programs seem to have only caused the population to explode. the fight against poverty will certainly require the prevention of food speculation and the revision of development policy. micro-credit seems to be a good approach to helping people to help themselves. but it must also be possible to expect that countries receiving development aid will take back their illegally arrived migrants. unless development aid is completely reviewed, it is unlikely that the objectives set will be met again. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. − the report ignores the fact that the eu is only a donor to the extent that it is economically secure. the sooner the eu has managed the consequences of the crises, the sooner long-term and sustainable development assistance will be possible. this aspect is not given enough consideration, and i have therefore voted against the report on the millennium development goals.
in writing. - cariforum-eu, which stands for a partnership between european countries and individual caribbean states, is clearly a cause to be supported. development, poverty reduction, democracy, human rights, and the mitigation of global threats to peace, security and stability are the cornerstones of strengthening the caribbean region. i do not think it would be appropriate to set up a delegation to the parliamentary committee for this purpose, which would not include members who are not members of a political group. that is why i voted against the proposal.
mr president, mr president of the commission! the task force is designed to create new euro rules at a rapid pace to help the eu navigate out of the current euro crisis. the commission has already made a number of references to article 121 today. you were right to speak of interdependence and of the fact that economic policy is not, of course, confined to the individual member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. can the commission envisage withdrawing eu subsidies or structural assistance? and what does the commission think of a temporary withdrawal of voting rights as a possible sanction? finally, what is the commission's position on the demands for a uniform insolvency regime for insolvent member states?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the incomprehensible decision by moody's yesterday clearly demonstrated the dominance and power of the agencies and the lack of transparency in the decisions. each credit rating agency shall be registered and its activities and decision-making procedures shall be monitored. we must guarantee the independence of the credit rating agencies, and that means no financing of the credit rating agencies by the auditors! the incompatibilities and conflicts of interest must be avoided: no consulting and simultaneous rating! transparency is required: models and valuation bases must be disclosed. the monopoly dominance is to be supported by a second opinion, by increased competition, and therefore we need agencies also based in europe. the foundation system has been cut, a joint stock company would also be possible. the kangaroo group will be able to submit detailed proposals to the commission in the autumn together with wolf klinz.
the commission has already done so. we all know that it is downright absurd for two private companies in the united states and one in the united kingdom to decide on the bankruptcy of eu countries. this oligopoly of rating agencies is, in my view, highly explosive. the timing of the agencies' action is also astonishing. as soon as the euro starts to recover, a graduation takes place. all this talk about the agency's sense of responsibility becomes relative when you consider that the securitized loans of unemployed americans were often given the triple-a seal of "totally safe". the apparent impartiality of the notaries is revealed as a fraud on closer inspection, since they are paid by the issuers of the securities. the quality of the ratings is also questionable. after all, before the international financial crisis, they gave the highest credit rating to banks that later collapsed. so it's high time that the rating agencies were taken to task. however, increased supervision of credit rating agencies should not be limited to the eu level alone.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. the protection of small investors is of particular importance. in the case of resale of securities, the investor must know who is now responsible for the accuracy and timeliness of the information. if the investor is considered a consumer worthy of protection, it is important that he receives all the essential information he needs to be able to evaluate his product, in this case the security. that's the only way he can make informed decisions. in the eu's common capital market, it is also important that the differences in national civil liability rules are treated comparatively for investors. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the prospectus shall govern the offer of securities to the public and their admission to trading on a regulated market in the community. it is a kind of passport that gives access to all eu markets. in the interests of control and transparency, i welcome the protection of small investors and, above all, the obligation to inform. i see it as an investment in the future to improve access to securities for medium-sized and small enterprises by easing the bureaucratic hurdle.
i have to say, madam president, it is unpleasant that i have to do this, but unfortunately i have a point of order: i think photography is basically a nice hobby. however, i ask whether it is appropriate that one should start taking photographs here in this house as a member of parliament, and that from behind and in secret. i know for the martin list, it was common practice to work with a hidden camera. i ask you, madam president, to clarify this. anyone who wants a picture of me can have it. i'd like to send a photo by pdf or email. but when i'm sitting here with a member of the martin list, i think it's pubescent to be photographed from behind like a block-guard to document it. i would ask that this be dropped in future, it is unworthy of this house, and i can ask the president to pass on this concern.
i have to say, madam president, we need this adjustment urgently! it is already years late, and this delay is of course the reason why the european commission is always caught up in new political realities. these changes brought about by the treaty of lisbon must of course now also be seen in the light of the financial and economic crisis. if the commissioner is always talking about setting political objectives and priorities, i can tell you very clearly what my priority is, and that is to save, to save in heading 5 on administrative expenditure. we have the situation that we do not even know exactly how much administrative expenditure the european union has. administrative expenditure of eu agencies, decentralised agencies, is not shown in heading 5. this brings me to my question: what are they going to do to ensure that we finally have transparency in administrative expenditure here? and what concrete measures will you take to ensure that these administrative costs are also dramatically reduced in the near future?
acting president of the council. - good afternoon, mr president. i thank you for participating in this debate this afternoon with your honourable members. on behalf of the presidency-in-office of the council, i would like to congratulate you on these reports which you have presented to us this afternoon and which certainly put on the table the problems of european women, the problems we face in these difficult times and the challenges we also face as politicians for the coming years. on these issues, on these problems which you have emphasized this evening, we have been working here on behalf of the spanish presidency of the council for the last six months and on behalf of the commission for a few more years. we have indeed devoted, as i said, part of our work, part of the work of the spanish presidency of the council, to working on the gender perspective of the new growth and employment strategy, strategy 2020, which is likely to be adopted on thursday, the 17th, and which is undoubtedly a crucial instrument that will shape all our policies in the next decade. in addition to the task of introducing a gender perspective into this strategy, we have also wanted to place the fight against gender-based violence at the centre of the agenda, since it remains in all our states, as is also recognised in the reports you have just presented, a serious social problem which undoubtedly shows the cruelest face of inequality. we have thus adopted conclusions which advance the objectives and instruments of the commission and the states in the eradication of violence against women. the text adopted commits us all, the 27 member states and the commission, to developing joint initiatives and instruments to tackle the scourge of violence against women together. these conclusions include the development of a european strategy to prevent and combat gender-based violence, on which the commission has already started work and the aim of which should be to obtain comparable information at european level, to set common objectives and means of achieving them, and to take the first steps towards the creation of a european observatory on gender-based violence. in addition, in relation to violence, they know that those conclusions also called for the setting up of a free helpline for victims of gender-based violence and a series of other measures to strengthen the social protection of women victims. we have also asked the commission to examine the legal basis for possible new legislative instruments which will enable us to combat these crimes more effectively in all our states. the epsco council of 7 june brought equality back into the european debate by adopting the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, guidelines which, as i have just said, will be submitted to the european council on 17 june. these guidelines incorporate equality between women and men as a necessary element not only for the recovery of employment in the crisis, but also for the realisation of the new model of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for the next decade. because it must also be a sustainable social model that must cater for a population that is expected to age significantly in the next twenty years and whose care cannot continue to be exclusively in the hands of women. if anything has become clear from these previous considerations in the reports you have presented to us and in all the discussions we have had during our presidency, it is that if we are to build growth from a solid foundation, europe must have the potential, the capacity and the knowledge of all citizens and of women, who, despite being the majority of people who obtain a higher education degree in the european union (60%), do not reach their full potential because of structures in our productive systems that are as unfair as they are inefficient. to overcome all these situations of inequality in our labour markets, which are a real incentive for collective progress, the target of 75% employment rate by 2020 will have to take into account both men and women. it's not just a question of fairness. if we compare the employment rates of women and men in the european union, whereas men are employed at 76%, the percentage for women is 63%. a special effort will therefore have to be made in the coming years to bring more women into the labour market. we have agreed that this should be done, and we must also act, as mr romeva said, to reduce the wage gap, which reached an average of almost 18% in the european union last year. other gender equality issues that will be part of this strategy 2020 are also worth highlighting, such as overcoming gender stereotypes in education, as well as in work and academic guidance. stereotypes that we know are leading to a segregated labour market today, as well as the need to seek work-life balance. and as regards social inclusion and the fight against poverty, which is extremely important, mrs figueiredo, we have also included a special focus on women, since they are at greater risk of poverty than men, receiving lower wages and pensions and taking sole responsibility for the unpaid care work. we are also very pleased to have reached agreement with parliament on the proposal for a directive on equal treatment for women and men in selfemployment. the agreement will make it possible for this directive to be adopted at a future council meeting, a directive which will recognize new rights for women who are selfemployed and for spouses or partners in a partnership who work together. we have had several meetings, as i said, in which we have been discussing alternatives and proposals on the problems that have been discussed here today and, finally - i imagine that commissioner reding will refer to this - we have also discussed the future strategy for equality for women 2011-2015, which will no doubt be the subject of intense debate in this house in the coming months and on which the commission will present its work plan in the coming months. i am convinced, and i will end with this, mr president, that the debate on the crisis and economic recovery cannot divert us from strengthening our european social model. that would be a mistake. that would be a huge mistake at this point, and that's why i think it's important to keep alive these debates and these policies of equality, which for so many years have allowed us not only to grow, but to grow and maintain an enviable and impeccable model of social cohesion.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i was very impressed by the work which has been done by your rapporteurs. i was also very impressed by the way the different political groups are going in the same direction, with small differences. these are not important as the road and the destination is the same and that is very important. thank you also for underlining – all of those who have spoken, the rapporteurs and also the authors of the oral question – that we do not need any other papers, we need action. i agree with you because, actually, we know what we want and we know why we want it. we know that the only way for our society to advance is to have gender equality, not only in women’s affairs but horizontally. that was exactly the reason why, for the first time in its history, the commission started its five-year mandate with an opening statement, as it has been called, with a charter which is a political commitment of each member of the commission to advance equality between men and women within his or her portfolio and thus a commitment by the commission as a whole to have gender equality high on the agenda. that is one thing. the second thing is: how do we get the action? how do we put the flesh on the bones of this women’s charter which the commission pledged itself to in march? here we come to the implementation. firstly, i have asked all my fellow commissioners to provide an input into the strategy, so it will not only be the commissioner speaking to you now who is responsible for gender equality, but it will also be the other 26 commissioners who will put on the table their contributions in their specific departments and responsibilities. this is very important because it has never happened before, and i believe that it is in the spirit of what all the political groups have presented here. how did we come up with these ideas? the five priorities in the charter have not appeared out of the blue. they reflect the result of the broad stakeholder consultation we conducted in 2009 in preparation for the new strategy. i will come back to the strategy later on. let me first speak about the very important reports that have been presented by the european parliament. first, mr romeva i rueda’s report. it is line with the commission’s position on how the crisis affects women and how responses to it should take into account the impact on women. i have already drawn attention to this issue in the latest annual report on equality between women and men, underlining that this crisis affects women more than the previous recessions did because women now participate more in paid employment and are often at the weak end of the job chain. at the beginning of the crisis we saw that male unemployment was rising very strongly, mostly because of the problems in construction and in industry. now we see that the unemployment of men and women is rising at the same level and the risk is that due to public budget costs and – hopefully not too much, but also – cuts in spending on gender equality, this will certainly have an impact on women’s employment. so it is very important that we are aware of this and that we have to put measures forward. that is why i am firmly supporting efforts to incorporate gender equality considerations into recovery measures. i believe that the crisis is a unique opportunity to implement the policies which will make the labour market and our society more gender-equal in the future. it has been already said very clearly by the presidency that the employment rate of 75%, which is our goal, cannot be obtained if we do not have women participating.turning to the gender perspectives of the europe 2020 strategy, in the three main elements of this nothing can be obtained without women. women make up 60% of university graduates and we do not ‘utilise’ them in the labour market but, if we are going for the smart growth, the green economy where we need the minds and where we cannot leave those very well trained intellectual women aside, we will never reach our goals without women. that is why i believe that women need to be helped in order for the 2020 strategy to have a positive result. the targets cannot be reached if we do not significantly improve the inclusion of women in the labour market. that is why i think it is very good that the european parliament has constantly underlined the strong gender dimension of the strategy – rightly so because we really need to ensure that women contribute to the strategy and also reap the benefits of the strategy. our gender equality strategy, which i will present in the autumn of this year, will contain many very concrete elements – not for the next few months but for the next years. we will have to have a real road map regarding how we want to implement the very concrete elements between 2010 and the end of our mandate – your mandate as european parliamentarians and my mandate as european commissioner. the strategy will therefore aim to improve governance and policy dialogue and will be implemented in close cooperation with the main partners at european level. something which was said in this chamber, and which is absolutely right, is that we could write a gender equality strategy now, but they must be put into practice in the member states. we see how all the instruments of the stakeholders which have been constructed over the years – since the beijing platform – are functioning well. in times of crisis we have to see that they continue to function well and that nobody will try to eliminate them. i count on parliament to help. if something like this occurred to a government, i am sure that we would at once speak up in this house. so this cooperation on which the ideas of the future strategy have been built – as i said at the beginning, it was the stakeholders who came in on the public consultation on this – has to be brought to a fruitful dialogue and what you call for – a regular dialogue. i therefore underline the report on the new strategy drafted by mrs figueiredo. i think your idea, rapporteur, of an annual tripartite meeting between parliament, council and commission to review what we have done in the course of the action is an excellent one. i think it will be very good to take it up because it will give everybody an incentive – the commission, council and also parliament – to do more to help. such a gender equality dialogue could be based on the annual report on gender equality drafted by the european commission. i think that could be a very active and concrete way to proceed. i also count on the member states to support the commission’s action in the area of gender equality, first by endorsing the new strategy, of course after having heard what parliament has to say about the proposals i will put on the table at the end of september, and also by renewing the eu pact for gender equality. in summary, there are three areas in which i want eu action to be very effective and very tangible, although when i speak of three areas that does not mean that they are the only three areas, but i think we could perhaps make out of those three areas our main goals. first, we will have to take decisive action to tackle violence against women and ensure effective protection of victims. our common judicial area must be an area where victims feel treated with dignity, respect and a high standard of protection and support, not only in one domain but in many domains. i have made it a priority to ensure that in the first half of 2011 the commission presents a comprehensive package in that respect. i know that the belgian presidency wants to take stock of what has already been done, what is in the pipeline and what needs to be done in an important conference which will take place some time in november. there will be a progression from the preparatory work done under the spanish presidency, the stocktaking and the preparation for complementary actions in the autumn and then a comprehensive package at the beginning of 2011. i would like to reconfirm what i said during my hearing and what has been clearly said also in the commission’s charter: the commission will use all possible instruments, including criminal law if needed, to eradicate female genital mutilation. we believe that this is a brutal practice which can under no circumstances and with no excuses continue to be a reality in europe. i will also be preparing a legal instrument to enhance the participation of women in decision-making. you are right: women are, except in university studies, severely under-represented in decision-making positions at all levels, both in public and in private companies. europe will have to act to close that gap as much as possible. i know that i have not spoken about all the other elements, such as the various kinds of leave we might add to maternity leave, the targets on child-care facilities, the pay gap and the options we have in order to introduce more transparency on these problems. the labels, the charters, the award and so on are all going to be on the agenda; all of this will be on the table at the end of september. regarding those concrete actions, you should then really come in and say that this is nonsense, this is not strong enough and say what you think we need on them. we are working on this together with my collaborators. we have heard the input of all the stakeholders. we have seen the input of your reports, of your resolutions and we have got the input from the ministers who have been meeting in a very important conference during the spanish presidency. altogether, i think we will manage so that you will say, four years from now, ‘yes, we have done it.’
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i'm going to focus on two topics that are very interesting to me: the economic and financial crisis and the ensuing recession should in no way be used as an argument to rebuild the progress already made in gender equality. in the medium term, this would consistently continue to damage economic growth. the gender pay gap exists and unfortunately still exists throughout europe. in the european average, the income gap between men and women is 17.8%. unfortunately, there are some bad negative outliers - like austria, my home country. the latest women's report of the austrian federal government shows that women receive only 58.4% of the gross income of men. only two countries have a larger income gap. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in recent years and decades, the european union has taken a leading role in the field of equal treatment between women and men. this pioneering role of europe must be extended. i see the commission's women's charter as an indispensable contribution to equality between women and men in the european union. the approaches to strengthening women's role in the economy, to equal income and to increasing the proportion of women in decision-making positions must not be empty words. there must be action. above all, we must convince more male decision-makers of our concerns. women's issues are social issues and affect everyone. but it is also not acceptable that women are still discriminated against, both within and outside our society. we must take a very decisive action against this.
the commission has already done so. the reason why i am speaking now is because i expect you, madam commissioner, to be able to present a real report of success at the end of the legislative period. the fact that you have announced today that you will be introducing eu guidelines for mandatory quotas for women in management positions, i think that is already very promising. the announcement is logical, it is fair, it is the right time to make it, and it promises economic success above all. i hope that the commission will take appropriate action. i myself have repeatedly tried to bring amendments to this effect in the area of financial regulation, the question of business ethics and the employment guidelines. and i 'm already watching with ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are all in agreement here, and i think that is indisputable in every respect. but i would like to suggest how we might get things moving even faster and make progress. we should always take equal opportunities into account in all the reports we have to deal with here in parliament. there are certainly many cases - not all, but certainly many - where it is possible to refer to equality issues. perhaps then we can make further progress more quickly from within. it would also be an example to be followed by the european parliament.
the commission has already done so. i would be happy to say something on a number of points, but in view of the crisis, we should focus on ensuring that this crisis is not carried on the backs of women. if we are talking about consolidation in all national parliaments, but also here in the european parliament, then this consolidation must not be at the expense of the socially weak, nor at the expense of women in general. if we now save on social benefits, if we save here in the field of education and training, if we save on childcare in particular, then this has an impact on the future, on the livelihood of women. that is to say, my very essential concern is that we also include gender mainstreaming in the europe 2020 strategy, emphasising that gender budgeting will be a matter of course in the future, because only then can we ensure that everything we want and demand today can also be implemented in europe in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unfortunately, the union too often shows its unpleasant shadow side in times of crisis. the european central bank is acting as a catchment area for failing states. and there is still a lot of talk about equalization and europeanization, even though the crisis has shown that the different strengths of the european economies and the different national economic mindsets cannot be swept away by centralism. for more than two years, the european union has been reeling from one disaster to another: first the financial crisis, then the recession and exploding budget deficits. instead of putting a stop to the speculators who are the main cause of the financial crisis, who have deprived the small people of their pension savings and jobs, instead of finally putting an end to the erroneous vision of neoliberalism, calls for more centralism continue to be made. i think we need a dictatorship of the eu council as much as we need a new institution that will devour billions in the form of a european economic government. if tax policy, minimum wages and retirement age are imposed by the eu, which does not even have control over its own budget, then in my view this is a more than worrying development. banking tax, transaction tax, regulations on credit rating agencies and increased financial market surveillance - all these measures are important but far too late. this makes it all the more important to act now, if necessary at eu level. the euro is increasingly becoming a monetary ascension command. we must talk about a core european hard currency union to finally tackle the root of the problems.
i have to say, madam president, unfortunately, my agonizing illness has so far prevented me from speaking in public in the international arena with the clarity i have shown on other european issues. but wait a minute, mr president of the commission. you're here in a historical time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the moment, everything that comes from the commission and what we have in parliament so far does not exclude this. there are no necessary improvements, they will go down in history as having failed to provide the necessary firefighting equipment, let alone new construction materials, when the house was already burning. secondly, equity: if you fail to stop and not just contain this disastrous, devastating shadow banking system, you will deprive the real economy and billions of citizens around the world not only of their own economic basis for action, but also of their trust in everything that is called democracy. because then suddenly china and the totalitarians, who are already making sure that their banks are controlled, are better off than the european union. third, of course, we need a system that minimizes systemic risk, so too big to fail can be implemented with progressive tax regulations, so that a bank, if it gets too big, just has to close!
i have to say, madam president, many of my predecessors have dealt with the question of the financial and debt crisis. i would like to speak about the council conclusions on the european pact on immigration and asylum. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we have in mind the objectives of the european union: firstly, immigration, yes, but in such a way that people who come to us also have work and do not take work away from those who live here; secondly, asylum for those who really need it, quickly and unbureaucratically; and thirdly, the strong prevention of illegal immigration and abuse of asylum, then we need a european labour migration policy which is coordinated but which also gives the member states the right to decide for themselves, in accordance with their social and integration capacities. we need a european asylum package that brings together the asylum laws of the countries and increases the quality and efficiency of the procedures. we need to make the external borders more efficient and thus strengthen frontex and the visa information system. we need a functioning return policy that allows for readmission agreements, and we need visa facilitation, yes, but only if the objectives are given. this applies to bosnia-herzegovina and albania as well as to russia and turkey.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. firstly, at the summit, make a clear commitment to a community europe and give a clear rejection to the proposals - especially those of germany and france - for a new intergovernmentalism. secondly, i would like to ask the commission to take a credible lead in the debate on the creation of an economic, employment and social union. if we do not pursue the united states of europe politically, we will fall behind in global competition. the fragmentation of the continent, demographic trends and the lack of economic and social competence in the eu are our greatest weaknesses in responding to the crisis. thirdly, i would like to say to the council once again: the europe 2020 strategy is not finished. call on the commission to unite the exit strategy, the growth and employment strategy and the monti package and to present a project for growth and employment!
i have to say, madam president, the citizens expect a strong international representation of the eu from the toronto summit with clear results such as: restriction on derivatives and hedge funds, banking disclosure for large banks, e.g. on the basis of balance sheet total, a clear limit on exorbitant manager's bonuses. the speculation with foreign capital must be minimized and the rating agencies must be brought into the picture. we need a neutral, independent control and a clarification of the question of liability for wrong assessments. canada, japan and brazil have already openly opposed a bank levy. no wonder, their banks didn't have to be bailed out with billion-dollar packages. it is also important for me to make clear to you the shortsightedness of this point of view. financial market regulation will not be avoided. we must take responsibility for those who have profited from years of risky speculation. the negative consequences cannot be easily blamed on the citizens!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i thank you for your report, which was clear and open and showed how important it is to enter into a partnership with russia. i would like to see a strategic partnership develop. however, i must also say that russia is a partner which unfortunately does not always comply with all treaties and agreements, for example also with regard to georgia. as someone who has been very critical of georgia's actions in the last war, i must say that i regret that russia is not respecting the agreements with georgia, because this of course also weakens russia's position and its ability to act in a peaceful manner in this area. if we have the very critical situation in kyrgyzstan now, then surely russia's role would be to help solve the problem here. thank god russia has made it clear that it only wants to do this in the context of the united nations. this is something we clearly need to appeal to russia. we want russia as a strategic partner, but russia must abide by our common rules, which we have developed in the united nations, and the agreements which have been reached with the european union. i am very pleased about the positive development of relations between ukraine and russia. but this does not and must not prevent the european union from continuing to improve its relations with ukraine. both are compatible.
i have to say, madam president, the eu-russia summit did not achieve much. the agreed modernization partnership is only on paper, and it seems unclear whether it is based on a partnership or a cooperation agreement. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but as we all know, it is extremely important to deepen relations with russia, because, in terms of energy policy alone, russia is probably europe's most important partner. however, i think it would be counterproductive to link visa liberalisation for russia to that of the eu's eastern partnership countries. such far-reaching decisions cannot be taken en bloc by the member states. we have already had a bad run with this in the 2004 enlargement wave. if necessary, it should be clarified for each state individually whether all the conditions are fulfilled. if the gaza conflict and kosovo were discussed at the summit and if there was talk of reducing the number of conflict zones, one wonders why the political instability in kyrgyzstan was not also discussed. if the state structures collapse there, it threatens to tear the neighbouring regions with it. and it's not just the nabucco project that would suffer.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the whole vote could have been different if the rapporteur had followed the committee's result. i ask you to do that in the future. (applause from the centre)
in writing. − the european satellite programmes egnos and galileo are a project that the eu has been working on for years and which, despite the huge amounts of money invested, still seems to be making little progress. as with the sis ii programme, the cost seems to be exploding. the galileo project is certainly strategically important in the long term, which is why i voted against the cost explosion with reservations.
in writing. − when the eu has several major projects running at the same time, namely sis ii, galileo, pipeline projects such as nabucco and the earth observation initiative gmes, all of which cost billions, there is a risk that the union will become disconnected. in any case, it is important that there are precise cost plans and that the funds are used efficiently. future projects are important, which is why i voted for them, despite the cost concerns.
in writing. − especially at a time when nuclear energy, backed by billions of dollars in subsidies, is being marketed as climate-friendly, it is important to promote the expansion of renewable energy not only in the eu but also worldwide. irena is the first international organisation set up for this purpose, to provide practical advice and support to both industrialized and developing countries. the aim itself is commendable and worthy of support. there is a lack of clarity in the implementation, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. - divorce is always a difficult business. when the former spouses are of different nationalities, the matter becomes extremely complicated. it is important that national rules remain unchanged and that greater clarity and legal certainty are ensured. the present proposal does not provide sufficient clarity, which is why i rejected the report.
in writing. - in general, the great progress made by the baltic states, and estonia in particular, is very welcome. but the question is whether now is the right time for the eurozone, already in crisis, to take on more member states. in addition, there has been no referendum on this subject in estonia, which i consider to be extremely questionable from a democratic point of view. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the discharge to be given to the council for 2008, as i see two important issues in the resolution adopted. the spanish presidency has promised to review the 1970 'gentlemen's agreement' between the council and parliament, and the council has committed itself to being fully accountable to parliament for the management of the budget. the council is called upon to rethink its information policy and to ensure greater transparency, particularly in the light of the current debate on the discharge procedure for the new european external action service. for these reasons, i support the european parliament resolution p7_ta(2010) 0219 .
in writing. − the creation of a single area of law with common rules is intended to significantly increase trust between member states in the field of justice and law enforcement. the commission will also be encouraging cooperation on the rights of individuals in investigative and judicial proceedings. the standards set by the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and those of the eu charter of fundamental rights must be respected. i rejected the report because it does not take into account national interests.
in writing. - the report by mrs bauer on the european parliament and council directive amending directive 2002/15/ec on the organisation of the working time of persons performing road transport activities deals mainly with the question of whether self-employed truck drivers should also be included in the scope of the directive. this is a lex specialis in relation to the general working time directive 2003/88/ec. this special scheme is quite useful for the protection of the selfemployed. it is therefore the duty of all employed drivers and of the selfemployed, which is particularly important in order to avoid abuse. it would be counterproductive to extend it to all selfemployed workers. this would result in a massive disadvantage for small and medium-sized hauliers, since they would also have to carry out the loading and unloading activities themselves. in addition, office work would result in a substantial reduction in driving time for self-employed drivers and would put them at a serious disadvantage. but i am particularly interested in small and mediumsized enterprises, which form the backbone of our economy. the argument that truck drivers now have to work 86 hours a week and are overtired on the motorways is completely untrue, since the driving time is still limited to 56 hours by directive 561/2006. i therefore voted in favour of the commission's proposal.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. consumers have a right to know what is in their food. for this reason, information on the composition and nutritional value of food is essential. information is the first step towards a targeted and informed purchasing decision. it is particularly important for people suffering from allergies, for example, to have targeted and detailed, clear and comparable information in understandable language. in conclusion, i believe that consumers must be able to make their own decisions in a responsible manner, but this can only be done on the basis of transparent communication. thank you, thank you!
in writing. - i voted against the joint motion for a resolution on economic governance because it draws the wrong conclusions from the present crisis. the crisis of the euro is not the result of too few centralised rules, but rather the result of the merger of economies with very different performances. we cannot have the same economic policy in germany and greece and spain. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the eu is thus definitively transformed into a transfer union, i.e. the economic output of the strong economies is redistributed to the weaker ones, without solving their structural problems. i am opposed to this because it will ultimately lead to the breakdown of those economies which are still relatively healthy and will no longer be competitive on a global scale. but this also destroys the european project, which cannot be our aim.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the gaza strip is not further aggravated by the israeli military's attack on the gaza solidarity fleet. at least nine people were killed and others were seriously injured. the ships carried relief supplies, including wheelchairs and medical equipment, for the needy population of gaza, but no weapons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is also committed to the protection of the rights of the palestinian people. this must also be recognized by israel. the blockade of the gaza strip, which is particularly harmful to the palestinian civilian population, must therefore be declared inadmissible and must be lifted as soon as possible. i would also ask our representatives in the commission and in the council to take this view with the israeli government. the storming of the international solidarity fleet has just been another setback for the middle east peace process. the european union must also be able to play its part in the peace process.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is deeply regrettable that it obviously took this shocking incident, the terrible attack by the israeli navy on the ships of the free gaza movement, for us to deal with the problem in a new intensity. of course, it is also strange that suddenly the turkish government is sympathetic to a free gaza movement. but without the years of inhumane, unlawful blockade of the gaza strip, extremist forces would not have an easy game here. four points must be implemented and demanded: the two-state solution must be put first. dismissed, the blockade is lifted immediately. israel has to agree to an international commission and not to look inward. an international observer mission would also be helpful for gaza. i appeal to our high representative/vice-president: the eu must show a courageous and upright attitude. appeals and demands are fine, but if they are not also demanded accordingly and accompanied by sanctions, they are useless.
in writing. since about 2000, north korea has been under international criticism for its nuclear weapons programme and for its continued violations of human rights. a new low was reached on march 26, 2010, when the south korean warship cheonan sank with the loss of 46 lives. a panel of experts from south korea, the united states and other western countries concluded that the ship was sunk by a north korean torpedo. a further tightening of the embargo rules by the un security council and the eu seems to be a tried and tested means of putting more pressure on the government. however, care must be taken not to worsen the already very poor living conditions of the population. pyongyang will not be able to afford to continue to provoke the international community unreservedly. a minimum of international relations is needed to generate foreign exchange, and already last year north korea's exports fell by 10%. the international community should be able to apply a moderate amount of economic pressure to persuade north korea to respect international law and human rights.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, but also our shadow rapporteur. a good report has been made here. the essential statement for me is that both sides, who are currently making life difficult in bosnia and herzegovina, are finally seeing the light and are moving away from their extreme positions. the first is to question bosnia and its integrity again and again, and to threaten referendums which do nothing but create a mood of hatred, and the second is to question the basic structure of dayton. does dayton need to be adapted? i'm not sure. it has already been adapted, and it will continue to be adapted. if one side keeps saying that the office of high commissioner should be dissolved, i agree with that. but the side that is demanding this must create the conditions for it to come to the point where the politicians in the country themselves take responsibility. that must be our aim, but politicians must also take responsibility. and i hope that the voters will have to choose in the next elections the politicians who are ready to take responsibility for their own country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to express my condolences to the victims and those affected. in austria, people are not just talking about a flood, but about a millennium flood in eastern europe. for thousands of people in slovakia, poland and hungary, this flood became threatening, even life threatening. the question arises of the need for immediate assistance, but also for training and awareness-raising, such as how to behave properly in floods to avoid casualties. and last but not least, there is the question of prevention, and above all of the cause. i can only advise all of us to protect our environment.
in writing. the current flooding situation in eastern and central europe has caused enormous damage and forced thousands of people to flee their homes. by the end of may, the weasel had crossed the shore. natural disasters of this magnitude have drastic consequences for the countries concerned, not only in terms of humanitarian and environmental impact, but also in terms of economic impact. in order to cope with these disasters, the government of the country affected may seek the assistance of the member states and the eu, in accordance with the solidarity clause enshrined in the lisbon treaty. the european union should demonstrate the crucial advantage of a community based on solidarity and provide rapid, unbureaucratic and efficient assistance in such a case. the existing financial instruments of the european union such as the solidarity fund can be used to support the reconstruction of the affected areas. however, the responsibility for disaster prevention should be left to the member states, which are aware of the specific needs of their regions and can therefore react more quickly and appropriately.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not going to go into detail. i am glad that we are here today under the greek leadership, so to speak, and that this issue of the ban on whaling is in good hands with you. but i would remind you that unfortunately we have very little competence at eu level in these international negotiations and the position taken by individual member states has not always been quite what we actually envisage at community level. we have drawn up many resolutions on this subject, and whaling is also prohibited in our waters. but overall, the situation is unsatisfactory, because this international convention provides for many exceptions and some whaling nations - i would like to mention japan here - make excessive use of this scientific whaling or killing for scientific purposes. that is not in the spirit of this agreement. unfortunately, there are still inhumane methods of killing. so we have a very unsatisfactory situation overall, and we should now consider how we can get out of it. first, we need to figure out how to deal with this now. the important thing is that we stand together. the european commission is particularly called upon to get the member states on board and to speak with one voice in international negotiations, not with 27 votes. we need a proper data base. it's still missing. we know that whales are a highly migratory species. so we need to collect this data because there are big differences between the northern and southern hemispheres. there are also great differences between species. not everyone is as vulnerable as some. a proper data base could also strengthen our weight in the negotiations. thirdly, we need to define our objectives clearly: what do we want? we're kind of at the "what". firstly, it is important that we maintain the ban on whaling in the community. secondly, we should consider how we can promote humane methods of killing. this is also a key point, because with a realistic definition of the objectives we would achieve a lot more overall than if we approached this subject too blindly. thirdly, we need clear territorial boundaries in the oceans, with the establishment of areas where whaling is absolutely prohibited, but also with clear controls and also with effective monitoring. we as a community could do a lot to help. if we do all of this, we will get to a situation where the agreement may not look so good on paper, but in reality, we are doing a lot more for the whales.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament's commitment to promoting the sustainable development of aquaculture and its emphasis on its overall importance is very welcome. the successful development of a competitive aquaculture industry requires the right conditions for the companies in this sector. the best conditions for producers are a uniform and transparent legal framework and quality criteria for products in terms of access to technology and research. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european fisheries fund, the establishment of a european fisheries fund, and the establishment of a european fisheries fund. the breeding of aquatic organisms has a long and rich tradition in europe, with many jobs and a great deal of expertise. as an austrian in the field of pond management and fish farming, i too have a great interest in maintaining and securing this in the future. in many member states, pond management and fish farming are already subject to high environmental standards and requirements. this quality should be supported and rewarded appropriately. i ask you to incorporate this area into your implementation strategy.
i have to say, madam president, as austrians, we are - as mentioned earlier - of course also affected by the pond economy and pond breeding. but today i would like to speak primarily in my capacity as shadow rapporteur on biodiversity and as a member of the environmental health and safety committee. we need to develop these aquaculture farms in a sustainable way for two reasons - which have been mentioned several times today - namely, on the one hand, because we want europeans to eat a healthy diet, and to do that we need healthy food from a healthy environment. the sustainable development of aquaculture is the key to meeting both these needs. i would also like to ask that special attention be paid to research and development and that the appropriate financial framework be set up so that we can guarantee its sustainability in the future.
i have to say, madam president, so the fish stocks are to be saved by aquaculture, if you believe it. on the contrary, when one considers that the food is often pre-catched and that the larvae are often taken from wild stocks, one cannot help but feel that this could increase the pressure on wild fish stocks. if you add to this the fact that the waste from feedingstuffs, faeces and antibiotics used in fish farming are a major source of pollution, it becomes clear that only if clear guidelines are set can aquaculture be a truly environmentally friendly alternative. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. we know that 170 million jobs are linked to the fishing industry worldwide. somalia should be a warning example. overfishing has robbed the inhabitants of their livelihood in large areas and has driven them into piracy. that's not something we should be striving for.
the commission has already done so. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much and also for making this debate so interesting today. we have rarely had a subject in the group which has caused such polarization. we have been working, and i have been working personally, to get the bluefin tuna on the list, to get a trade ban. we failed in doha. it would be nice if in four years' time we no longer had to talk about the fact that the tuna stock had declined by 75% - sometimes it is said by 80% - between 1957 and 2007, but that these measures taken today would help the fishermen concerned, the people in the regions, and would also help to ensure that bluefin tuna is not one of those species which we have to consider extinct. i understand all those who fight for jobs, that must be our concern. but this should not jeopardize the protection of species!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i don't know how you can add that now. but these days, there are terrible floods in france. it is worth adding at least one sentence to say that we deeply regret these floods and the victims that have been caused by them. it would be grotesque to adopt a resolution today without mentioning the floods in france. (applause from the centre)
in writing. − traditionally, some fish are traded as delicacies. this naturally leads to a strong demand for selenium and even to the endangerment of stocks. eu waters are among the most overfished. in order to prevent the extinction of certain fish species and to ensure that fishermen's livelihoods are not lost, it is important to combat illegal fishing. in practice, compliance with fishing quotas often fails because of control problems. i hope that the catch documentation system will improve this, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. − by adopting the schengen acquis from romania and bulgaria upon their accession to the eu in 2007, the two member states underwent an examination of the necessary conditions for the application of the schengen acquis. the monitoring body 'schengen assessment' was able to establish that the conditions for the effective introduction of the 'schengen information system' (sis) were met in both countries. the connection of both countries to sis is to be completed by the end of the year. i voted in favour of the report because the objectives set have been achieved by both romania and bulgaria.
in writing. − statistical data are an important basis for policy decisions. for this reason, data should be of the highest quality and accuracy possible. however, it must not end up with businessmen being left with bureaucratic tasks, which particularly affect small and medium-sized enterprises, nor must statistics be misused to give eurostat or the commission additional powers. in the example of the falsified statistics in greece, the commission was aware of this for a long time without taking any action. i voted against this because it seems to be a matter of using the powers of the commission to expand.
in writing. − women are still underrepresented in the executive bodies of high finance, their share is clearly too low. the authors of the report believe that a gender balance could have led to no credit crisis or to a much less harmful one. because according to michel ferrary, a professor at ceram in france, women are less risk-taking and more forward-thinking. although i am sceptical about such studies, the proportion of women should increase significantly in the future. however, women are generally more affected by the crisis than men, as they are more directly affected by cuts in public spending, particularly in the areas of home care and maternity. the proportion of precarious employment or parttime work is also much higher. i have nevertheless rejected the report because the economic aspect of motherhood has not been taken into account sufficiently.
in writing. − women are still disadvantaged in the professional world in europe as a whole. this starts with pay - the average pay gap is 17% - and goes all the way to maternity protection. women are often faced with the choice between having children and pursuing a career. the aim was to improve the balance between work and family life. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take account of the fact that women are more likely to be poor than men, especially in the difficult economic situation in which we find ourselves. women in particular who choose to have a family are hit particularly hard, which is unacceptable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. i rejected the report because it does not deal enough with the reconciliation of work and family and the role of women as mothers.
in writing. - sport in particular is a highly emotional subject, which also arouses patriotism and national pride in the population. as professional sports are lucrative, not only are there problems with doping, but the field is also being abused by resourceful criminals. it is important to keep sport 'clean', especially for its role model among young athletes, but also to protect the athletes themselves. especially at major events such as the world cup, the risk of young young athletes through sports intermediaries is increasing. i have agreed to this report in the hope that it will help us to put an end to these practices, if not to curb them.
in writing. - although i did not entirely agree with some of the wording and paragraphs in the joint motion for a resolution on the eu-russia summit, i voted in favour of it in the final vote. i consider it particularly important to intensify relations between the eu and russia, not only for reasons of energy policy but also for historical and cultural reasons. the eu must shape its foreign policy in the caucasus together with russia and must not let itself be dragged along by the us cart. in this respect, the georgian conflict should be treated fairly and the main focus should be on supporting the population living there. the eu is not in a position to make any major demands or conditions on russia's accession to the wto. in conclusion, it must be said that relations with russia are on the right track following the conclusion of the modernization agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the israeli military operation against the humanitarian shipping association and the blockade of the gaza strip. it presents the situation in a balanced way and calls on both sides to return to the peace negotiations. the role of the eu and the responsibilities of the high representative will also be discussed in depth. the immediate opening of the borders with the gaza strip would be particularly important in order to be able to provide the population with food and aid.
in writing. − the absolute prohibition of torture and ill-treatment within the eu, based on the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, is unquestionably inviolable. the eu is also moving in the right direction by criticising countries where torture is still on the agenda in the strongest possible terms. i abstain because the resolution does not contain a precise definition of objects of torture and the impact on legally imported goods which could be misappropriated cannot be estimated.
in writing. - the following should be noted in relation to the section on visa liberalisation in this resolution: visa facilitation for the western balkan countries is in principle worth supporting, but only if all the conditions are also met. this is also true of bosnia and herzegovina. the conditions are not met until the security needs of the european population, and especially those of austria, can be fully met. unfortunately, as we know, this has not always been the case in the past. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the visa exemption is not applied to all citizens of the union. these guarantees are not fully guaranteed at the moment.
in writing. - i rejected this railway package, which is imbued with the idea of centralism, for several reasons. it is a shame for the borderless eu that train travel within the eu is still not possible. the eu must ensure interoperability, i.e. the same technical conditions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the network. on the contrary, the centralization and fragmentation of responsibilities add new difficulties. not only can the project have a negative impact on the quality and safety of rail transport, but it is also likely to reduce the service. the losers of this railway package would be primarily rural residents and commuters.
in writing. the stockholm programme aims to define a common policy on the protection of fundamental rights, privacy, minorities and vulnerable groups, and citizenship of the union. the strengthening of eurojust and europol is essential for this. training and joint training in the legal and executive fields are necessary for smooth implementation. i shall abstain, since there is no concrete financial plan for training and further training.
in writing. - i am in favour of the sustainable development of european aquaculture, fish farming and pond management, and of the establishment of better conditions leading to an increase in their competitiveness. the european fisheries industry stands for high quality standards and high expertise these must continue to be promoted. the promotion of research and development is an important approach. the european fisheries sector, through upstream and downstream production and processing, supports thousands of jobs within the union that need to be safeguarded. for these reasons, i support the european parliament resolution p7_ta(2010) 0243 on the sustainable development of european aquaculture.
in writing. - it is particularly important to have clear guidelines on the possible negative effects of aquaculture. clear guidelines, however, do not mean that the eu is making rules here, because harmonization is always agreed on the lowest common denominator. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i can only reject this report for the reasons i have mentioned.
- mr president, i have to go. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are not judging the last few months today - let us stay on the subject - we are judging the outcome of the council meeting today. what time are we living in? i would have expected a little more self-criticism today about our actual weaknesses, a little more honesty in dealing with what's happening right now. the concrete results of the council summit do not correspond to the announcements made by mr sanchez-garido in strasbourg. the council is continuing to announce declarations of intent rather than making heads and nails of them. we're staring at the council all the time! i do not expect the council to be the leader on all issues! but i expect the council to do nothing to delay or block, to support the commission and to act on the announcements as quickly as possible. ladies and gentlemen, i don't like the letter-writing method either. these are all fake activities. we are receiving letters from merkel and sarkozy 24 hours before the summit, and we are now receiving a letter from barroso and van rompuy addressed to themselves. we get a letter from obama, a letter from canada! we want deeds and projects, not letters. write fewer letters, follow the verbal initiatives with concrete, sustained actions. europe 2020: turn the strategy into a tool and a concrete project for growth and jobs. the bank levy has not been specifically decided. we have no project with the g-20. the transaction tax is in the air, there is no european project. the financial market supervision is blocked in the trilogue, the hedge fund regime is blocked in the trilogue, the crd iii regime is blocked in the trilogue, and at the moment in basel the states of the european union are supporting a definition of capital that the americans prefer to europe. let us act and make the announcements into realities!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a few brief comments on the basic elements of europe 2020. progress can certainly be made when the work for more growth is combined with the goal of sustainability. but what we must remember is that this does not solve the basic problem. the fundamental question is how we get out of this growth constraint. how can we prevent future economic and financial crises? if i ask myself this question, then we probably won't be able to avoid a fundamental reform of the monetary system. so we have to finally debate questions like whether it would not make sense to put money creation back in the hands of the state, whether it would not make sense to tie the lending of banks back to the actual cash stock. but these are all questions that only an independent and strong policy can answer.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. what's this all about? the aim is to establish rights for people with reduced mobility, including the use of ships and buses, and to improve these possibilities through this initiative. we are obliged to do so. finally, we have also been very active in strengthening the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in the european union, and this should be our obligation. the two files: i am very saddened and extremely disappointed by the council's attitude to the bus passengers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's generally the reluctance to look where it gets difficult. i therefore believe that it is urgent not to allow transitional periods of 15 or 20 years, but to give people a clear signal that they have the right to participate in mobility. the second issue, which will be decided by a large majority, is the rights on board the ship. there is a very big gap in this, and i want to draw attention to it once again. the ship is regulated, but not the port. this means that a wheelchair user has to beam himself from his car or from the people who take him there to the ship, where he has his rights again, because there is no regulation in the port itself. i see a problem here; we cannot tolerate this. let's make nails with heads for people with reduced mobility.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, the commission's proposals for the registration of so-called 'gigaliners' - that is to say, the 'giant lorries' - must be rejected. gigant vehicles would jeopardise safety on eu roads, and the european road network is not designed for such a gigantic scale. cars would have difficulty seeing, and there would be longer overtaking distances and catastrophic accidents. secondly, the often catastrophic impact of tunnel fires shows that improving vehicle fire safety is also important. i am in favour of a mandatory installation of automatic fire extinguishing systems in the engine room throughout europe, which is already the case in motor sport. the cost of mass production is about 50 to 100 euros per piece, so it is a relatively low-cost measure that would bring a significant safety benefit.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs. i think we have succeeded in resolving a quasi-contradiction, because we all want to expand transport systems, but also a sustainable future. the report sets out the conditions for making this future truly sustainable, and i only hope that we will succeed in putting these conditions into practice here, so that they can be lived on the ground. i would like to give you an example of what is being tried here in austria. we have just recently established the 'niederösterreich mobil' platform in lower austria, a platform where all stakeholders and stakeholders work together to create future and sustainable local mobility. i think we need such small-scale examples, but we need the big guidelines at european level. we need to expand transport networks, especially rail and water. and with regard to the danube strategy, i would like to stress that we need to develop the danube, but above all taking into account this particularly sensitive ecosystem.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the context of this comprehensive discussion, i would like to make a suggestion in advance towards the de-cluttering of transport. millions of eu citizens are once again on the streets of europe looking for holiday destinations. would it not be useful, in the interests of sustainable transport, to stagger and coordinate the different holiday arrangements of the member states at european level? national holiday arrangements often have a serious impact on european holiday-making. the european transport network is heavily congested, citizens spend hours commuting to holiday destinations, and the negative consequences of these seasonal peaks are obvious both for the environment and for citizens and consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the training of teachers is not restricted to the minimum necessary. the economic benefits of unbundling would also be considerable, as the extension of the holiday season would result in cheaper prices and jobs. i hope the commission will take up this suggestion.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. commissioner kallas and we all know that ambitious and financial intensive projects like this are of course about how the financing can be arranged, and we are looking forward to new financing models, which are certainly necessary. but it is in this context that a transport fund will and could play a particularly important role, not to take money away from somewhere, but to coordinate the flows of funding, which are huge, accordingly and better.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the right to petition was enshrined in the treaty of lisbon as an important part of citizenship of the union. the majority of petitions are by far from being submitted by nationals of germany and spain. my home country, austria, is far behind the leaders. i am convinced that widespread public attention can have a positive effect on deeper integration of the european union. the decisions taken by the european union have a direct impact on the daily lives of its citizens. because through a petition, citizens can have direct contact with european institutions - institutions that are often perceived as very abstract and bureaucratic. but the institutions also win through a petition. the way in which eu law is implemented is often revealed by means of a petition. the mutual recognition of training, vocational qualifications and professional experience is one example. the eu supports various mobility programmes. in order to ensure that they also function successfully, mutual recognition should be ensured. citizens of the union are represented in the european parliament. for this reason alone, it is important that they can petition us directly. as a member of the committee on petitions, i am in any case actively campaigning for a greater awareness and impact of the committee. if there were more knowledge of the eu's competence, the problem of the large number of inadmissible petitions could also be tackled. and last but not least, i would also like to thank you for the report!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. one of the greatest medical advances is undoubtedly the discovery of immunization. the vaccination programmes for children are a european success story. diseases that have cost thousands of children their health and sometimes their lives in the last century have been virtually eradicated. this year marks the 30th anniversary of the eradication of smallpox. awareness of vaccine-preventable diseases may reduce the motivation to get vaccinated or to vaccinate your children. however, declining vaccination motivation leads to declining vaccination coverage. and so diseases such as measles and rubella, which had seemed within reach of eradication, are reappearing with increasing frequency. when a child is vaccinated against infectious diseases, he receives a personal benefit in the form of his personal health. but all other people also benefit personally. vaccination therefore protects not only individuals but also the community. the importance of childhood vaccination programmes, but also the importance of immunisation in general, and the need to further increase vaccination coverage should be at the heart of european health policy, especially in the context of ever-increasing demands on our health budgets.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with turkey, which have been going on for some time. but instead of negotiating with ankara on food security, we should tackle open issues such as the unresolved cyprus conflict, the armenian question, human rights, religious freedom, attacks against christians - as was the case with the recent murder of a catholic bishop. the turkish foreign minister said that with more goodwill on the part of the eu, faster progress in the negotiation process was possible. it is astonishing that ankara is so explicit in calling for the opening of new chapters, but on the other hand is very deficient in meeting its debt of bringing - namely, the fulfilment of the accession criteria. the eu is also under pressure and i do not understand why the enlargement process is being pushed through the minds of the citizens at this pace.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the continuing economic situation in the eu has shown who is really affected: young people under 25 years of age, of whom 21.4% are unemployed. this is twice the total unemployment rate in the eu! the young unemployed continue to suffer the consequences of unemployment later in life. youth unemployment also has significant negative social and economic effects on our society, and above all on economic development. youth is our future. let us give young people a fair and good chance, for example by investing in, among other things, better education and training, so that they can have a good foundation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european youth needs clear prospects. this report is the first step in the right direction. the prospect of a secure future, away from financial dependence on others and towards a regulated self-reliance, can be such a prospect. the entry into working life plays an important role in this. often, internships are intended to facilitate this step. all too often these are abused. there must therefore be a regulatory framework that not only protects young women and men who are committed, but also ensures the quality of the traineeships they undertake. an internship must be seen as part of the training process of young people and not as an opportunity for an employer to profit from cheap labour. we must not allow young, motivated and committed women and men to be exploited and disadvantaged in this or that way. age discrimination must be decisively opposed, because young people are our future. let us protect and promote them!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur for this report, which clearly addresses a current problem in the european labour market: flexicurity. statistics show that in recent years there has been a clear shift from full-time to part-time employment. and not only that, atypical forms of employment have also increased. this is particularly important to discuss and evaluate in the context of the protection of workers' rights, particularly in the light of the fact that many jobs are at risk and that these atypical working conditions are often abused. to respond properly to change, we need a clear line. this is reflected in the present report. the creation of sustainable jobs, the promotion of education and training and the promotion of equal opportunities for women and men are important issues to be addressed. the benefits of flexicurity must be clearly promoted. here, you have to keep on going.
the commission has already done so. i would like to thank you very much for the opportunity to speak at such a late hour. i believe that cohesion policy has rarely been as important as it is now in the crisis. it is also a sign of the crisis that jobs and investment are concentrated in the centres of the individual member states. i believe that it is now that cohesion policy must step in and invest in the regions. we need this drive, this drive in the regions. we need every dollar. and i can only say of lower austria, also an objective ii area, that in the past we have managed to generate three euros in the region for every euro that has flowed into the eu. and we need very clear guidelines. that means there must be another reliability. there has to be some planning. but it is in situations like the one we are in now that we must also be able to design flexibly. that is why i think this report is so important, because it calls for this flexibility, because the regions must have the possibility of shaping their own future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the spanish presidency of the council has been a highly problematic one. instead of grabbing the bull by the horns in the traditional spanish way and pushing through the necessary re-regulation of the financial markets and the rating agencies quickly and forcefully, the spanish presidency of the council has resorted to appeasement and postponed important projects to the next presidency. the spanish presidency of the council was announced at the beginning of the year as a historic milestone. in fact, six months were wasted, blindly following the path of centralism laid down in the treaty of lisbon. as spain is known to have massive financial problems, it was not only overwhelmed by the financial crisis. under spanish leadership, the world has once again been shown the political insignificance of the eu. important meetings have broken down, and some could only be reached by emergency solutions. but the presidency was unique. never have eu treaties been broken so massively as with the billions in bailout funds that are about to fall on our heads, because they have only put the real problems of the eu on the back burner.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. this agreement is not just an agreement, this agreement is a milestone in the implementation of the lisbon process. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, this is a great political success for parliament vis-à-vis the americans, the council and the commission. thirdly, it is a great success in terms of content, because this agreement, at the initiative of parliament, has brought about the installation of our own tftp, which we need to move forward here in europe. it is not all achieved, but a great deal has been started, and this is thanks to the good cooperation between the commission and the council. i would like to thank the rapporteurs in particular, they have done a great deal of work here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what was negotiated in the swift agreement and is now being sold as data protection is more of an embarrassing self-deception by europeans. as long as uninformed citizens can be targeted by us intelligence services through transfers outside europe, thanks to data packages, data protection is clearly being mocked. it states that it is not technically possible to attribute the deaths to individuals at this time. if it is not feasible to restrict the transfer data to specific requests now, then it is unlikely that the data will be delivered, and that is all. once the agreement is implemented, no one will be complaining about this restriction. the eu's own surveillance system, which is to be set up, will probably turn out to be a placebo, a tranquilizer for the critics, within a few years. the storage of unlimited data packages over such a long period of time and five years is a small eternity from a data law point of view without judicial reservation is contrary to the understanding of a modern rule of law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are respected.
in writing. under the guise of fighting terrorism, account data of innocent european citizens is being transferred en masse to the usa! the new swift infusion will not change that! we cannot promise citizens adequate data protection because: - sensitive data will be stored in bulk instead of being suspected in individual cases! - the data is stored randomly for five years! - the protection of data is to be guaranteed by europol, even though it has an interest in the data itself! the executive is thus monitoring itself - is this really an independent monitoring body??! - the eu citizen whose rights are violated has no chance of getting justice! the citizen would have to go through the trouble of bringing a case in the us! what was celebrated as a success of the european parliament in february is now turning into a disaster. even the rapporteur admits that he is not entirely satisfied. this is not effective, not real data protection and therefore to be rejected!
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the proposed swift agreement is a significant improvement, with the exclusion of sepa and a definition of terrorism. but the political debate around swift clearly shows how difficult and important it is to strike a balance between civil rights and commitment to global security. there are many open questions that need to be answered, such as: 1) why do we need to store the data for five years? 2) i think that with a longer negotiation period, we could have definitely worked out the weak points and included our own legal service; the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its part in the world stage of development. i think that even after its revision and various concessions, this agreement still fails to take account of the balance between security needs and respect for privacy. in conclusion, i am convinced that a longer period of negotiation could have produced better, more detailed results for both sides - the united states and europe. thank you, thank you!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would just like to point out that with today's decision we are doing something that we wanted to do in 2004 and that the council refused to do in the spring of 2004, namely to expand the scope for auditing for eurostat, to expand the competence and to automate the audit. this is the first important legislative step in response to the experience of the last few weeks of the crisis. the independence of eurostat must be strengthened and the dependence on data from the member states reduced. it is a matter of the right direction for today, but not, in my view, complete. unannounced inspection visits to member states must be possible at any time and all relevant data must be available. the cooperation with the european central bank needs to be intensified and eurostat needs to be increased in financial and staff resources, combined with high-quality staff training. what more does parliament want? sanctions against member states which falsify and transmit false statistics. the commission has to present a comprehensive report to parliament on what the mistakes have been over the last six years. we want to know where the mistakes have been made, politically, legally, in terms of competence, so that we can draw the consequences. the commission should propose and promote the harmonisation of the collection of statistical data and the criteria for statistical authorities in the member states. we are taking a correct and important step towards independence and the development of skills today, but it is not yet the end of the world. we must continue along this path. (applause from the centre)
in writing. the paris agreement lays down rules on the frequency, quality and procedures of international exhibitions in its field of regulation. it also sets out the customs arrangements applicable to imported goods in each country. the countries are obliged to accept the goods. this means that the entry procedure for exhibitors is considerably simplified. i voted in favour of the report because it is culturally necessary to simplify the import of goods for exhibition purposes as much as possible.
in writing. − the eu has signed many environmental and animal welfare documents, but it often fails to implement and control them, for example in the area of fishing quotas. the eu must be concerned about preserving ecosystems for future generations. although under certain conditions aquaculture can be a source of environmental relief. in general, the delicate balance between environmental and animal welfare and the economy must be maintained. the report would make the eu as a whole a member of the iczm protocol, but eu states with access to the sea are already iczm members. i voted against this because it is in tension with the idea of subsidiarity.
in writing. − the objective of this proposal for a council decision is the signing and conclusion of an agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein, of the other part, laying down the modalities of the participation of these states in the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, known as frontex. frontex was established in 2005 and is doing important work in the fight against illegal immigration at the eu's external borders. the agreement will now also enable switzerland and liechtenstein to ensure closer coordination of checks and surveillance at the external borders between the competent national administrations and those of the eu. i fully support this. that is why i voted for this impeccable report by mr clay.
in writing. − the amendment of the regulation on the quality of statistical data in the context of the excessive deficit procedure is a particularly important and urgent measure in view of the current problems in most member states' public budgets. the stability and growth pact, which is now to be renewed and strictly observed, can only be monitored in a meaningful way if eurostat also receives unadulterated and real data. we now know that greece only managed to cheat its way into the euro by deliberately sending false data to the eu. this is a scandal, of course! something like this must never happen again. it is therefore all the more important to extend the powers of eurostat and to give the authority the possibility to carry out unsolicited checks on the various government departments. the stability pact is worth the paper it is written on. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − passengers on ships, whether by land or sea, should be granted the same rights as those on air and rail. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the right to compensation are respected. here too, it is important to meet the needs of people with special needs. i voted in favour of the report because the overall package, which includes the rights for buses, is very welcome.
in writing. − if intelligent transport systems are to be introduced, they must be interoperable. the chaos of mobile chargers was a lesson that common standards should be set in advance. we also thought about mutual recognition and data protection, so there's no reason why i shouldn't give my consent.
in writing. - we are still far from achieving sustainability in transport. the problem is not only one of coordination within countries but also between countries, as the example of cross-border rail transport shows. we are also far behind schedule on the important transport links in the ten projects. and we are miles away from the agreed timetables that have been called for again. the present paper is essentially a repetition of old strategies which have not been implemented. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − unemployment is young and female, and this trend is increasingly stronger in the crisis. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. only by taking care of the young generation and improving their entry opportunities can they contribute their potential to society and eventually think about family growth. in times of uncertainty, we need not be surprised by low birth rates. i have abstained because the report, although it is an approach, does not sufficiently address some of the problems.
in writing. - the present labour market and the labour relations associated with it are characterised by one word: flexicurity. in this context, two points should be borne in mind: on the one hand, it must be possible to create flexible working conditions which cannot be integrated into conventional framework conditions. on the other hand, in such 'atypical' forms of employment, the social security of the workers must be guaranteed. i support the rapporteur's proposals to promote the creation of sustainable jobs and to promote training and further training, while at the same time, through active consultation, strengthening the plans of the unemployed and those seeking employment and reintegrating them into the world of work. i therefore support the report by mrs gruny.
in writing. - it is important to make good use of existing raw materials in the interests of the environment, which means recycling bio-waste where waste cannot be avoided. citizens' environmental awareness is constantly increasing and is helping to achieve the goal of protecting the environment and climate. there are traditional differences between member states in how bio-waste is used, for example, for energy production. the commission has already made a number of investments in this area, and it is appropriate to take account of national differences in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. that is not sufficiently the case in this report, which is why i also abstained.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. if the member states of the european union are to be strong economically and externally, they must act as one european union. the financial market supervision package with a european systemic risk board as strong as possible is therefore the need of the hour, as is a strong european - and i emphasize the word - european banking, securities and insurance supervision. the european committee on systemic risk is - allow me to make the comparison - a bit like the german president. in its present form it has no wide-ranging powers - i wish there were more - but it can exert a great moral authority, it can warn, it can make recommendations, and it can do so publicly. the european parliament, and i consider this a particular success, has also pushed civil society stakeholders, i.e. consumer advocates, trade unionists and scientists on the board of the esrb and i really do consider this to be something that is particularly positive and to be highlighted. i would therefore like to call on the member states not to use retro-style methods to shape the economic order of the 21st century, but to think and act in a european way!
i have to say, madam president, there are already some 40 eu agencies in the european union. each year, they devour 1.5 billion euros. it has never been a problem for the council and the member states to adopt such agencies very quickly. the council and the member states were also not concerned that their activities were often contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and, above all, that the agencies were often not useful. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, member states now find themselves in a situation where policymakers have been lagging behind the global impact of financial markets for years, if not decades. the citizens' frustration is understandable only if the european union acts where it is not needed and fails where we need it most. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take a decision on the matter.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to say to the council, which is absent: come back, come back to a strong community europe, do not run away from reality, look the citizens in the eye and do not give up your responsibility for the future! we need more europe. the commission proposal is already a minimal one. we need strong oversight with teeth, a right of access and a mediator function. we need decisions without further calls in emergency situations. we need banking supervision as part of crisis management. the protection clause is a blocking instrument and is contrary to community solidarity. we need a strong surveillance with teeth. let us agree next week, let us not delay any longer, let us tell the citizens that we are ready and able to take up the challenge.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. unfortunately, i cannot now deal with the disregard for parliament's rights and the business case for the umbrella. the theme is: the financial market stabilization mechanism is not, in our view, a substitute for the establishment of a european monetary fund. i believe that we need a european bank levy, which should serve, in the first step, to build up the necessary equity capital for a european rating agency and, in the second step, to build up a european monetary fund. the financial market stabilisation mechanism shows the urgency of financial market reforms, but it also shows the lack of a crisis mechanism, and it also shows that we need political union, economic and social union and a stronger europe. the best stabilization mechanism, in my view, is to respect the maastricht criteria, to respect the stability and growth pact, to complete the internal market and to have a competition policy based on an offensive education, research and investment policy so that we can maintain growth and employment and not have to go into the pockets of the taxpayer in need.
i have to say, madam president, in the event of a crisis in another member state, eu countries will no longer have to provide direct financial aid, as they have done in the past, but will have to provide guarantees. that sounds good, but it does not remove the fundamental problem. the point is that in the eurozone, countries with serious fiscal policy differences and difficult fiscal policy conditions naturally have highly problematic situations. the problem is only postponed and the guarantor quickly becomes a debtor. the question of dependence on credit rating agencies also arises. in order to be able to provide itself with capital at the lowest possible interest rate, the fsf would therefore have to achieve the highest rating of the rating agencies, and this instrument would thus be even more dependent on us agencies. so it doesn't make sense to set up a public company, to give it such important tasks and then to put it under the massive influence of private rating agencies. the question arises, however, as to how a neutral classification is ensured in the case of a european variant. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think the question is how to achieve stability and economic growth. the question is the 2011 budget is currently under negotiation do you know of any budget lines that actually lead to an increased employment effect? how can we better support small and medium-sized enterprises and get more and better entrepreneurs? i think that is the central question of stabilization. if we produce more, we can also distribute more and we can also become fairer in europe again. the competitiveness and innovation programme (cip) is something which would go a long way in the future. a reduction in this programme would be completely counterproductive. we should be careful in our analysis to identify which budget lines are destroying employment, which are neutral and which are creating new jobs. will there be any suggestions from you?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the council is out again. it is becoming clear that the council is not really aware of the political message of these regulations and of their absence. in the negotiations the council took the side of the beneficiaries. the european parliament is in favour of clear european rules. we're on the side of maximum limits. we are on the side of risk-reducing withdrawal methods. we're on the side of liability. we are in favour of limiting bonuses for managers of banks with public support. we want cash to be no more than tied capital. we have pushed through the split in the timetable and are very pleased that commissioner barnier has agreed with the americans that the second part, namely the banking and commercial books, will be implemented globally together. it is also important that we have adjusted the commercial and banking books. the disclosure requirements have been significantly strengthened, the risk-taking of re-securitisations in the trading book has been adapted to the banking book and the stress test is introduced in the trading book to build up capital buffers for times of stress. and it is important that we have strengthened insolvency prevention measures in the commercial register, but i would like to say in this context that we need a more harmonized european insolvency law. we are in favour of this compromise, it will take us in the right direction.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the system of paying out only a part of the bonuses, in this case 20 or 30%, encourages efforts towards more sustainable corporate governance. the scheme is also intended to send a message to the public, because the public has already been asked enough to come to the cash register and it is not understandable why their tax money should be used to pay bonuses to irresponsible managers. this is a unique arrangement in the world, and to avoid any exodus towards new york or tokyo, the eu must now come up with a second trick, namely to promote a common arrangement more strongly at international level. because those managers who are successful and responsible will continue to make a good living. in addition, it would be worth considering introducing corporate governance requirements that do not concern the capping of managers' salaries in non-listed companies. this is a fundamental change towards more sustainability, towards economic efficiency and please away from gambling.
i have to say, madam president, in austria there is a real wave of closures of post offices and at the same time a 40% increase in the salaries of the executive board of post ag. but it is particularly in times of crisis that the population has no understanding for such dream-like gains, bony excesses and cancellations. it will not be easy to draw a line here. the german law on the adequacy of board remuneration has, as is well known, only resulted in more bureaucracy and more influence of foreign investors on remuneration policy and corporate strategy. the attempt to hold managers with self-restraint more accountable has been thwarted by new insurance policies. this should be a lesson to the eu project. and then when you hear that disclosure of executive pay in the united states has led to an increase in executive pay, it becomes clear that our project is like fighting a hydra. in any case, it is difficult for a chief controller to be responsible for two competing firms at the same time. there is no doubt that there must be transparency about what bonuses depend on.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work. it is very welcome that this second draft novel food regulation will finally establish uniform rules on the placing of novel foods on the market in the eu. this is in response to the high level of health protection in the european union. i believe that there are ethical and health reasons for not approving cloned meat and cloning in general. agriculture in europe produces food at the highest level, whether from conventional or organic farming. the commission has always insisted on high standards and quality standards for european agriculture. the principle of supply must be applied particularly in the food sector. there is no need for cloned meat for food security. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur has been very helpful in this regard. we need a new regulation to ensure that new foodstuffs can be safely placed on the market. what we don't need is clone meat. we don't need this clone meat for a whole bunch of reasons. our europeans, our consumers, reject this product. this is portrayed as panic-mongering on the one hand, and as anti-science on the other. i am convinced that until we have scientifically clear data that can really confirm the safety of this cloned meat and the products made from it, we should be hesitant to approve these products, and i believe that we are doing good not only to our consumers but also to european agriculture.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to comment on the use of nanomaterials in food, because there is a great deal of uncertainty among the public. the european food safety authority also warns that the current state of science cannot provide satisfactory information on important effects of nanomaterials in food, in particular how they behave in the human body. therefore, in no case should nanomaterials be authorised in food until appropriate risk assessment test methods are available to ensure food safety beyond doubt. i too would like to express my admiration and my thanks to the rapporteur.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. reducing red tape, simplifying, improving efficiency - three keywords that stand for the right approach to change the existing directive on industrial emissions. we need a controlled reduction in red tape to make the process more efficient. we need concrete and compact directives setting minimum standards throughout the eu. we need the associated efficiency gains to protect our environment more effectively. but we also need an independent and objective monitoring body to ensure that new directives are being complied with. in recent years, new technologies and sustainable farming have reduced co2 emissions by 12%. the agricultural sector is thus at the forefront of climate and environmental protection. industry can now follow suit. the creation of minimum standards and the resulting reduction in pollution will also require industry to make a concrete contribution to the protection of our environment.
in writing. industrial activities require a high level of environmental protection. this applies in particular to air pollution control, water protection and biodiversity. at present, european regulations on industrial environmental protection are too fragmented and do not yet achieve the desired level of use of best available techniques to raise the level of environmental protection. the use of the best available techniques should therefore be the rule rather than the exception. the central strategy is to tackle pollution at source. the recasting and re-introduction of these rules has taken important steps towards reducing the scope for derogations and cutting red tape, which is particularly relevant for smes. the commission is also responsible for examining periodically whether further uniform requirements for individual activities and installations are necessary throughout europe and for reporting to the council and parliament. it is also called upon to assist and monitor the implementation of the measures by the member states. cooperation with european associations of industry, smes and ngos plays an important role in this. the second implementation report in 2019 will show whether the use of best available techniques is now the norm in the eu to ensure a high level of environmental protection in the industrial sector.
the commission has already done so. 2010 is the year of biodiversity and this regulation creates an important prerequisite for action against climate change and for the conservation of biodiversity. the eu must no longer provide a market for illegally harvested timber and timber products, as illegal logging is a major cause of deforestation. finally, 20 to 40% of the world's industrial wood production comes from illegal sources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. this deforestation accounts for 20% of global co2 emissions and is a major cause of biodiversity loss. by prohibiting the placing on the european market of illegally harvested timber or timber products, the european union is demonstrating that it takes its responsibility for the conservation of biodiversity seriously. i thank the rapporteur.
mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. there's a lot to be said about what you said. i would like to emphasize once again just one of the points which i have mentioned, namely the regulation of european financial markets. it is not just those of us in this parliament who are in favour of europe who are in favour. mr profumo, the head of unicredit bank, which operates throughout europe, recently said: 'as banks, we also need european banking supervision. it is not possible that europe and european legislation should fall behind what enlightened bankers and banks in europe consider important and necessary. and so, mr prime minister, please ensure that in the coming days there is efficient and effective european banking supervision.
in writing. spain is followed by another country, which will be busy with domestic politics and will neglect its role as leader in europe. this is a fact that is welcome to the supporters of the lisbon treaty, which is already accompanied by a loss of power for the rotating presidency of the council. and the big states will be able to use the impending weakness of leadership to impose their interests over the heads of the small ones. if belgium wants to debate the demographic and economic reasons for immigration, it will probably open the doors to europe once and for all. immigration policy must not be guided by corporate desires for an army of cheap labour or by politically correct multicultural visions. the legitimate interests of the peoples of europe, who have grown up in the course of history, must remain at the centre. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment. and europe also needs a consistent return policy for the many thousands of illegal immigrants who are in the eu. the belgian desire to conclude the accession negotiations with croatia quickly is welcome, but there is no commitment to halt the negotiations with turkey. finally, turkey provides almost daily evidence of its lack of eu maturity and is neither geographically nor culturally historically part of europe.
in writing. - the eu's limitation of bonus payments is a sensible thing, but unfortunately there are far too few of them. it is not necessary to explain why bonuses should not exceed a certain - very high and generous - limit and why they should be paid over a longer period. the results of the decisions made by managers today are often not visible or comprehensible for a few years. in many cases, short-term profits in corporations are counterbalanced by long-term losses or even the bankruptcy of the company. the commission has already taken the initiative in this respect. the decision today is therefore intended to bring moderation to managers and more sustainable thinking.
in writing. − the capping of managerial salaries in the banking sector is an important and right step. it was the risk-taking of managers that contributed significantly to the current economic and financial crisis. the measure of paying out only part of the bonuses is intended to create an incentive for sustainable economic activities and to deter irresponsible risk-taking. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the taxpayer is paying for the crisis. but it wasn't triggered by him. banks, which are now returning to good profits, have triggered the crises by their lack of capital and their excessive risk-taking. it is not possible for banks to withhold their profits, pay high bonuses to their managers and pass on the losses they write to society - that is, to all of us! i'm all for a clean slate. i welcome the progress made - it is pointing in the right direction, but we must not stop here. we need to look at the companies doing well, not at the top executives being showered with money.
in writing. − this second draft of the 'novel food' regulation will finally establish uniform rules on the placing of novel foods on the market in the eu. this is in line with the high level of health protection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal health and welfare systems in the member states are properly monitored. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. only 10% of animals bred in vitro survive, and these suffer more from disease. there is no need to produce cloned meat to ensure europe's food supply, and european agriculture produces food at the highest level, whether from conventional or organic farming. we need to ensure that farmers and the high production and health standards of european agriculture are safeguarded for the future.
in writing. − the protection of human health must be given the highest priority. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the foodstuffs are labelled in a clear and simple way and that their contents are precisely indicated. products of cloned animals or their offspring must be declared with particular strictness. it should be essential that controls are also particularly strict and that non-compliance can be punished. it was particularly important for me to support the amendments which provide for the labelling of genetically modified food.
in writing. − there is a great deal of uncertainty among european citizens about the use of nanomaterials in food. the european food safety authority (efsa) warns that the current state of science cannot provide satisfactory information on the effects of the consumption of food containing nanomaterials. at present, there is no sound scientific basis to exclude the possibility that nanomaterials in food have harmful effects on the human body. therefore, in no case should nanomaterials be authorised in food until appropriate testing methods for risk assessment are available. i voted for labelling food produced from animals fed genetically modified feed.
in writing. − while it is good that the eu is committed to environmental protection, this document is essentially a revision of existing texts and does not introduce any new elements in the field of industrial emissions. the committee's proposals and amendments were not, however, targeted or truly ambitious, and i therefore rejected them.
in writing. - the eu has waited far too long to regulate financial services more strictly, wasting a lot of time since the crisis. the weaknesses in the european as well as the national supervisors were well known and seem to have been exploited relentlessly. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the need for stricter financial regulation arose when it became clear that banks were entangled in a jungle of opaque financial products and that the savings of the common man were being put into risky trades. at the latest, when the bankers were eagerly paying out bonuses despite billions in bailouts, this inadequacy should have become clear. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the report calls for increased capital requirements as guarantees for risky financial products. the crisis has taught us that risky financial products must be handled with caution. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − it is of course essential to improve cooperation in the monitoring of the ever-growing european financial market. current account deficits at eu expense and housing bubbles in the union have further burdened the eu, already battered by the financial crisis and budget deficits. it may seem sensible to warn in advance, for example, when such real estate bubbles are created, but whether this actually does anything remains questionable. finally, the us has also been warned for a long time about a housing bubble, without this having had any impact on the financial market. we are therefore going to have a new body of the financial supervisory authority, which cannot impose measures or sanctions and which raises the question of the precise responsibilities. i think that is a very immature thing to say, and that is why i abstained.
in writing. − long before the financial crisis, it was warned that the vision of unlimited liberalism was a dangerous one in the financial sector as well. the need for urgent action has been clear since the domino effect of the banking crisis. while it is important to strengthen and coordinate financial market supervision, the banking sector in particular is also structured in a rather different way at national level. what is effective in one country in crisis management may not be appropriate in another. i am against undifferentiated equalization and bureaucratic centralism, and the measures proposed go too far in this direction and could have a counterproductive effect. i therefore rejected the report.
in writing. - the present resolution on the european financial stability facility and the european stability mechanism and future actions reads like a horror story. it shows that the political establishment of the red, black, liberal and the united left has not only learned nothing from the financial and economic crisis, but it illustrates very clearly that it is now ready to repeat the mistakes that led to this crisis with renewed vigour. the euro, for example, is described as a security anchor, which is a reversal of reality. the convergence of the most diverse economies has led to fiscal instability. the interest rate spreads which are now so much lamented are completely natural and are precisely the reflection of the economic strength of a state or, conversely, of the risk for the investor. hard austerity programmes are now absolutely necessary to eliminate budget deficits and restore balance to the national budgets. eurobonds would further destabilise the euro area and make the eu even more of a transfer union. i am opposed to that, which is why i voted against this resolution.
in writing. - i am opposed to the issue of common european bonds. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − under no circumstances should the eu be burdened with iceland's debts. the icelandic people will have to do their homework and reduce their debt. however, unlike turkey, iceland is a european country and has been part of the eea for 15 years. progress was also made on the contentious fisheries policy. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm wearing a double hat now, too. i am speaking here both as rapporteur for the committee on women's rights and as shadow rapporteur for the greens. i am doing both as a representative of my colleague, mrs franziska brantner, who became a mother of a little girl about six weeks ago and who therefore left this job to me today. i should also like to take this opportunity to thank her very much for her preparatory and accompanying work and support. the women's committee has focused on the issue of gender equality in the recruitment process in the european service. we have succeeded in ensuring a gender balance in the agreement and, ms ashton, i expect - and i hope for your commitment - that you will also implement the principle of equal opportunities for men and women and equal treatment of men and women in employment and occupation, as enshrined in article 157 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and ensure representation at all levels in the selection of your staff, including delegation heads. as the green party's shadow rapporteur, i would like to thank mr brok, mr verhofstadt and mr gualtieri for their good cooperation and also to make it clear that we have made many improvements here together compared with the original draft for a coherent, more effective and common european foreign policy. that is why my group supports today's report and we will vote in favour of it tomorrow. a strong human rights framework, safeguards for development policy, a strengthening of our democratic controls - for example, future eu ambassadors will have to undergo a hearing before this house before taking up their duties - but also a transparent foreign policy budget. our enthusiasm is somewhat dampened by the lack of clear structures for civilian crisis management and prevention, and the new service will hardly provide consular services to european citizens. we wanted a strong structure for civilian crisis prevention, for civilian crisis management, for peace building, the priority being civilian. the compromise is not yet what we wanted, but with good will and ambition, mrs ashton, it is still possible to achieve it. but this can only be done if your ambition is also to put individual national interests - particularly as regards the priority of the military, as france has been claiming in recent weeks - in the background. the european union must be ambitious in putting our common european thinking and action into practice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i think the rapporteurs and mr šefčovič, and in particular cathy ashton, have produced a very good draft. my group has unanimously taken note of this and will be voting for it with all our hearts tomorrow. of course, the point is that some governments are giving the diplomatic service a chance, except that the french government now has other problems than these red lines. you should take back the red lines. on the contrary, it's not about that. many in the population fear that there will be an upsurge of diplomacy in europe. no, it is not a question of doubling the number of diplomatic services, it is a question of strengthening the diplomatic services. the european union has a long history of supporting the democratic process, and the european parliament has a long history of supporting the democratic process. that is the point, and we fully support that, and it will give the governments of the individual countries a great opportunity to give cathy ashton and the diplomatic service a great opportunity. i hope that the belgian presidency will be the first to take this opportunity and give full support to cathy ashton, of course in consultation with the foreign minister and the foreign office, but the point is to bring more europe into foreign policy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the colleagues from the other groups for the preparation of my report on kosovo, including mrs ewa mahr, who has done a very valuable job here in the secretariat. i would also like to thank you, commissioner, for the good cooperation, but also for what you said about the importance of your visit to the north of kosovo, even spending a night there, and thus making it clear to the people there that you are also there for them. you gave a speech at the university, the eu house is opening there. i think that was an important sign to make clear what this european parliament has expressed in the past and is now expressing again, namely support for an independent kosovo on its way to the european union. we are now in a situation where there is once again an important crossroads for kosovo, especially for the citizens of all ethnic groups in kosovo. in a few weeks the international court of justice will decide and give its opinion on the position on the declaration of independence of just over two years ago. i hope that this decision, this opinion, will then be an opportunity something like an open window, as it is called in english to put regional cooperation on a new basis but starting from the statehood and independence of kosovo and to make it clear that the common future for all the states of the region for serbia, for kosovo and all the others is membership of the european union and that on the way there the problems that still exist must also be solved. the text of the resolution makes it clear that the future of kosovo lies in the european union. i am glad that we have a majority in favour of this, that we are also calling on the five member states which have not yet recognised kosovo to do so soon, and that we are also calling on the commission once again to start visa liberalisation as soon as possible. the citizens of this country, especially the young, must not feel that they live in an isolated state, that they cannot go out, while everyone else in the area will soon have this future. i think that's the assignment. i hope that i shall also find a large majority in the plenary tomorrow. i have also tabled a new amendment which emphasizes the strong regret over the outbreaks of violence in recent days, the hope that a quick and independent investigation will be carried out and that this will not be used as a basis for stirring up emotions in the coming days and weeks.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we are debating kosovo, we must inevitably also discuss serbia. if the application for accession by serbia in december has not yet been examined in brussels, the question arises as to whether the european council is really taking so long to pass the document from one office to another or whether there is political calculation behind it. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the military occupation of the territory of an eu member state is not an obstacle to the opening of negotiations with turkey, a country which is neither geographically, nor spiritually and culturally part of europe, but the rules for the states of the former yugoslavia are clearly different. not only is there a justified need to cooperate with the international court of justice, but there is a sudden demand for regional integration and the settlement of bilateral disputes outside the eu area. the extension of the copenhagen criteria may seem to be laudable at first sight, but then the same would have to apply to turkey and would undoubtedly bring the negotiations to an immediate halt. the recognition of kosovo is apparently intended to be a litmus test for serbia. some even want to make the european union the protector of the kosovo albanians, without taking into account the legitimate interests of the serbs. the declaration of independence by the kosovo albanians is, as is well known, clearly contrary to international law. as mr deva has already said, it is contrary to un resolution 1244. it is apparently part of eu policy to legitimize this breach of international law, even though five eu countries do not recognise kosovo's independence for good reasons. brussels has repeatedly stressed that it does not interfere in internal affairs. but then the recognition of kosovo must not be dictated to the serbs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as far as kosovo is concerned, the situation is still unsatisfactory, not only as regards internal problems - mrs lunacek has made a very good report here - but we must finally have a dialogue between kosovo and serbia, but also with bosnia-herzegovina. in particular, this should start after the decision or after the opinion of the international court of justice. and this is not a step backwards to abolish independence, which is illusory, but a step forward, so that both - kosovo and serbia - can eventually join the european union, perhaps even hand in hand. that must be the target. as far as albania is concerned, it is a difficult relationship between the government and the opposition, and we want a solution. i regret to say that mrs pack, who usually makes very balanced arguments, has now become a mere talking government. and that's a shame. it is not a question of internal political disputes, it is not a question of making speeches which perhaps will be appropriate for the albanian parliament, although they will not be there either, and i will not now criticise the government in order to reverse this, so to speak. we in the socialist group want a solution. we want both the government and the opposition to respect what they have agreed to do, namely to set up the committee of inquiry now, and to seek a solution for the future, especially as regards the question of elections and the correctness of elections. i would like to see elections in this country, in albania, not contested but accepted by both sides, the government and the opposition. that's what this is about. and this is not a matter of one-sided partisanship, but a joint solution between the government and the opposition. the european parliament should support this.
madam president, i do not want to comment on the doris pack statement. we have two resolutions and two authors – mrs lunacek and mr chountis. they are very good resolutions and the result of very hard work. i do not understand why this parliament does not accept that these are two resolutions with two authors and that we always have to go the long way round and require an official statement by the commissioner in order to deal with them. i would appreciate it if the presidency of the parliament could reconsider how these resolutions are dealt with in future. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. i would first like to thank and commend commissioner oettinger for his swift response and, above all, for his contacts with the sectors and security authorities concerned. i think that's the only way we can come to a solution. but i think that the approach taken by commissioner damanaki, which is to look at the whole thing in terms of principles, is also extremely important. i'm against the bill. but disasters like this again make you want to check the whole energy field. i think we are becoming aware that this dependence on fossil fuels has many, many risks, and when we think about the future of energy supply in europe, we must always take this into account. that is why our very strong criticism of renewable energy sources, whether it be the sustainability criteria for biofuels or the ugly landscapes with wind turbines, must always be seen under the assumption that the alternatives are actually more dangerous, conventional energy sources. so i think it's important, with all the differences between the us and europe, that we do a very careful analysis of the situation and, as commissioner oettinger said, really look at the legal framework, how it looks in concrete terms, because we have a very, very big fragmentation in europe. this means that access to justice can be very difficult for individuals. prevention and, above all, european cooperation are extremely important in the event of such a disaster. and this solution, with an insurance or a fund, has to be thought through to the end. i believe that this is the only way to give the oil companies some security in the long term.
i have to say, madam president, the deepwater horizon oil rig sinking has caused the worst oil spill in history. to date, hundreds of millions of gallons of crude oil have spilled into the gulf of mexico, causing a mass extinction of marine and terrestrial life. the global consequences for the ecosystem are devastating. the eu must make a constructive contribution to a compact legal regulation of oil drilling so that oil companies cannot be left in the lurch over the quality of materials and safety precautions. the negligent risk to human and animal health cannot be balanced by the argument of economic efficiency. moreover, a greater focus on renewable energy can be a response to the world's increasing energy consumption. the commission, ladies and gentlemen, must make further progress in this area, moving away from fossil fuels and towards biogenic fuels. we must reduce the dependence which exists in this area.
i have to say, madam president, since the deepwater horizon oil rig sank in the gulf of mexico, millions of gallons of oil have been pouring into the ocean every day. bp's risk analysis for the oil rig assessed the possibility of an accident with serious environmental hazards as unlikely or almost impossible. once again, we have been taught better. in mid-july, president obama convened a committee of inquiry to discuss, among other things, regulation of deep-water drilling and risk management issues. new oil wells can only be drilled in deep water. only last week norway issued licenses for almost 100 exploration blocks in the north sea. i can only support, commissioner oettinger, your efforts to achieve the highest level of safety from a european point of view, in the interests of healthy people and a healthy environment.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to begin by thanking the high representative and the commissioner on behalf of my group for their rapid and coordinated action. as the commissioner said, the key is to react swiftly, appropriately and in a targeted manner. from all the information i have, that's how it worked. the ethnic tensions are particularly regrettable. we must also take into account that in this region of the world the borders have not been drawn precisely according to ethnicity. and that's actually a good thing. if we did that all the time, we'd never really get to the limit. but in the context of economic and social difficulties, this can lead to ethnic tensions. we hope that all those involved, including all neighbours, will try to put these tensions behind them and make a fresh start now. the high representative mentioned our special representative, mr morel, whom i greatly appreciate. perhaps it is time - i have already mentioned this - to revive the central asia strategy as we had it, especially under the german presidency, because i believe it is a very important region: fragile, tense, close to afghanistan, between russia and china, but also of particular interest to europe. i think that the commitment we are showing in this case is very important. how many of us were afraid of the referendum? i have to say, i've been wondering if this is the right time, too. turns out it was the right time, it was the right thing to do. because sometimes we think in the categories that we need strong men or strong women to develop the country, and then democracy comes. at least now the new interim president - a woman with vision, strength and determination, but also with the will to achieve greater democracy - has shown that it is possible to combine the two. it could also be a good example for the surrounding area. it doesn't necessarily need presidents with the long-term possibility of being president forever. it can also be a link between a - in this case - woman with a clear strategy and democracy that can help the country. we wish that for her and for this country with the help of the european union.
madam president, i am very happy that we will have a common resolution, hopefully with the votes of a large majority of this parliament, on this resolution. it is – as has been said – in the preparation of the 18th international aids conference in vienna – which is my home town – and which has as its topic, ‘right here, right now’. it is about a rights-based approach to hiv and aids, something that has been missing in the past. as we all know – and as has been said by all of the speakers here – that hiv and aids leads to the fact that people affected by it – people infected – are seen as people sidelined. they are marginalised. they are not seen as somebody who is in the mainstream of society. this is the need: to make them the focus of attention, the focus of prevention and the focus of health care. i would like to remind everybody that even the wto, in its doha declaration in 2001 on trips, made it clear that primacy of health has to come before commercial interests, which is especially important in countries like africa, where 60% of people infected are women and girls – those who traditionally have less access to health care and have less money. so the whole issue of patenting medicine, of making medicine available for poor people – poor sections of the population – is key in the struggle against aids and hiv infection. as has been said before, women and girls are more affected now than at the beginning of the epidemic, when it was mostly gay men. but it is not a disease that mostly affects gay men any more. in the world context, it is mostly women and girls who are affected – and men as well. so i ask everybody – and i really plead to those who have not signed up for the declaration – to vote in favour tomorrow, to make it clear that sexual and reproductive health and rights are for everybody, and especially those affected by hiv and aids.
i have to say, madam president, the majority of new infections in recent years have been among 15- to 24-year-olds. it is especially the young who underestimate the potential risk of infection. this is due to ignorance of the disease. they are too young to remember the information campaigns of the 1980s, and education is not a compulsory part of the school curriculum. a 2005 eurobarometer survey showed that most european citizens would support greater eu involvement in the fight against hiv/aids. but this survey also highlights the problem of half-truths which are still common among the population. new campaigns must be launched to provide adequate information to the very different target groups, also to avoid the re-stigmatisation of those infected.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mrs ashton, ladies and gentlemen, please. i first came across the issue of cluster munitions a little over four years ago when a group of civil society organisations approached the austrian parliament, where i was at the time, and asked us to hold an event on the subject to get the convention off the ground. there were people affected there, people who had themselves lost a leg to cluster bombs or had other massive health problems, and they showed us photos of what happens when one of these bombs detonates. these are small, colored fragments that are scattered - hence the name "scatter" - and remain for years. children who play there later think it's beautiful, something colorful, they take it in their hands, it explodes, they lose legs and arms. i was so impressed at the time that i started to campaign for it in austria, and i have to say that my country was one of the first to sign and ratify it, after initial resistance. that is good, but there are still so many countries in the european union that are not in the union. i am very pleased that we have succeeded in getting a large number of the five groups to support this resolution, especially mr gahler, because i know that there were some reservations in your group on some points. i thank you for having succeeded in getting you to name the member states which have not yet signed and ratified and which are not yet prepared to actually destroy their stocks and to make it clear that they will never use them. mrs ashton, i have two specific questions for you: the demand that the eu accede to this convention as its own entity and that in negotiations with third countries you add the prohibition of cluster bombs and cluster munitions to the standard passport, which already includes the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in treaties. i'm asking you for an answer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the agricultural policy needs a coherent framework. it must strengthen the eu as a whole, but it must take account of regional differences. the second pillar is particularly important for my country, austria, when we consider specific environmental and investment programmes. agricultural policy is facing major challenges. the world's population is estimated to grow to nine billion people, and at the same time, we are facing the effects of climate change, such as water scarcity and drought. to solve these problems, the eu needs to work together not only internally, but also in a coherent way at global level.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i assume you meant me. i would like to take up exactly what the previous speaker said. of course, thank you for being so generous to take five speakers instead of ten. we understand your time horizon, of course, but please understand ours. the subject is very important. there are parts of europe which are particularly affected and particularly threatened, and this goes beyond the committees, of course. secondly, you mentioned that the problem of the catch-the-eye procedure is not resolved. then we ask that it be settled soon, because i do not know whether we should line up a day before or already three days before make a deposit and next here so that we can also get? it's also very important that they tell us if there are only ten, who are the ten. it would be helpful and very fair to structure this as soon as possible. you'll have less stress, you'll be more appreciated for taking more of it, and we'll be happy when we come to a solution that works for us. i ask for your understanding, and thank you again for your understanding.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is precisely china's interventions in central and latin america that are giving new impetus to the eu negotiations. with more than 200 million consumers, the mercosur countries, which are known to share very similar values and interests with us, are the most important market for latin american products. the aim is to create the largest free trade area in the world, with a total population of 700 million and a trade volume of 100 billion euros. this is of course a strong argument in favour of a free trade agreement, which is in principle to be supported. the question arises, however, why separate treaties are in force with mexico, chile, mercosur, peru and colombia and not a common treaty. and when individual agreements are concluded, the small states must be involved, not just through the associations. there's a lack of consistency there. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the developing countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu's already limited self-sufficiency must not be undermined any further, and the death of farmers in europe must not be further encouraged.
the commission has already done so. as a co-signer of today's question, i can once again refer to a very specific subject, namely food safety. you told us in your first remarks today that the products imported into the eu must meet our requirements and that the wto gives us the right to maintain our rules, provided they are based on scientific evidence. but when i look at our agricultural production and the products, not everything is scientifically verifiable. it is also about the conditions under which animals are raised, for example, and the conditions under which agriculture is carried on. in europe we have great legislation, including on the future of biodiversity. we would like to hear from you how you intend to ensure that food safety, consumer protection, animal welfare and environmental protection are respected in this trade agreement. political decisions must also be taken when the scientific evidence is not available. we also do not want clone meat from mercosur countries.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we've talked a lot about sustainability, we've been talking about sustainability for two hours, but there's certainly one thing that's not sustainable - because obviously every president has exactly the same problem: that you don't know when to sign up so that you're taken into account. i'm being disqualified for the second time, on time. i think that's an affront. it is obviously necessary to ask each and every president, as well as the previous president, to make a clear regulation and to take into account when you have to register for catch the eye here. it is not possible for me to go immediately after a debate, after the previous item on the agenda, and ask more than politely to be included and then be ignored. if you're ignoring people, please say so. let us know if there is no obvious desire to talk about such an important topic as sustainability. sustainability is obviously not possible here if you have to ask every president to come to his parliamentary right and speak here. i urge you to clarify this because it is an unfair procedure.
in writing. it seems that the mercosur negotiations have only one objective: to leave european agriculture unprotected. i do not want to know how immense the gains will be for industry and the services sector - i want to know how much damage will be done to agriculture. no one can yet estimate the damage that a possible agreement with the mercosur countries could cause to domestic agricultural producers. the sensitive agricultural sector must not be left to the negotiations. the same applies to european consumers, who are faced with food that has not been produced to the high eu production standards. on the one hand, this is a concern for the health of eu citizens, since it is not possible to trace the conditions under which imported foodstuffs were produced, and on the other hand, european agriculture is exposed to unequal treatment, since eu production and processing standards do not apply to agricultural imports from mercosur countries. when someone is willing to give up everything for a profit or an advantage, we have the phrase, "someone would sell his grandmother". you may sell your grandmother to commissioner de gucht, but do not give away our european agriculture!
the only thing that is needed here is to insert the official title of the advisory opinion of the international court of justice. i want to read it in english. the official wording is the accordance with international law of the unilateral declaration of independence by the provisional institutions of self-government of kosovo.
mr president, this refers to the very recent violent events in kosovo, one of which my colleague, mr kacin, has already mentioned where an ethnic serb member of the kosovo parliament, petar miletić, was shot last monday. together with this parliament, i wish him a very speedy recovery. there was another incident and it was not possible to make reference to it before the end of the amendments so i will read this oral amendment: ‘expresses its deep concern at the deadly blast that killed one person and injured 10 others that took place in mitrovica north on 2 july during the demonstrations against the opening of the civil services centre and at the attack of 5 july on an ethnic serb member of the kosovo assembly; strongly condemns all acts of violence and calls on the parties to act responsibly; urges eulex to make every efforts to defuse tension and prevent further violence and calls on the kosovo police, with the assistance of eulex, to start, immediately, thorough and impartial investigations into the events in order to bring the perpetrators to justice’.
in writing. - the data protection of the swift agreement is a fraud. the retention of data in unlimited packages for such a long period without judicial reservation is contrary to the notion of a modern rule of law. the european police agency europol, which is itself interested in data for the fight against terrorism, is the one to check compliance with data protection rules and the actual existence of a terrorist suspect. and the idea that the now often toothless data protection officers can get a block or deletion in the us is downright laughable. so more data protection is not in sight, which is why i have given a clear no to the swift agreement.
in writing. - under the guise of fighting terrorism, account data of innocent european citizens are being transferred en masse to the usa! the new swift infusion will not change that! we cannot promise citizens adequate data protection because: - sensitive data will be stored in bulk instead of being suspected in individual cases! - the data is stored randomly for five years! - the protection of data is to be guaranteed by europol, even though it has an interest in the data itself! the executive is thus monitoring itself is this really an independent monitoring body??! - the eu citizen whose rights are violated has no chance of being able to assert himself legally! the citizen would have to go through the trouble of bringing a case in the united states! what was celebrated as a success of the european parliament in february is now turning into a disaster. even the rapporteur admits that he is not entirely satisfied. this is not effective, not real data protection and therefore to be rejected!
in writing. - i do not want my vote against the new agreement to be interpreted as a 'no' to the fight against terrorism. terrorist acts must be prevented and any terrorist act must be condemned in the strongest terms. the protection of civil rights is the other. civil rights are not a given they were fought for! i am convinced that, with a longer period of discussion, the outcome of this agreement would have been such that a completely satisfactory outcome could have been reached for both sides - the united states and europe.
in writing. - as always, it is difficult to accommodate and balance the different interests and positions; the european union is not a political entity, but it is a political entity, and it is not a political entity. the following factors are still unknown: • staff who and how much? • equality staff selection should be based on the principles of gender equality. • the powers of the eeas? • budgetary control should be vested in the european parliament. • very important for taxpayers: what are the costs? in any case, these should be within reasonable and comprehensible limits. in this sense, synergies must be exploited to achieve maximum quality and cost savings.
in writing. - on the subject of 'visa liberalisation' in this resolution, the following should be noted: the commission is also proposing to extend the visa exemption for the western balkan countries. however, this is subject to the condition that all the conditions laid down are fulfilled to the full.
in writing. − aids and hiv are still a widespread disease, which is hardly preventable. in particular, so-called third world countries continue to have high rates of new infections and, consequently, deaths. however, new infections are also increasingly being reported within the european union, with the hidden numbers likely to be much higher. the fear of confessing to the disease and living with the stigma is still very high. much research is also being done within the eu to stop the disease. i voted in favour of the resolution because research into aids/hiv is essential.
in writing. - cluster munitions are one of the most dangerous weapons, since they are often used to kill innocent people. children in particular are at risk of accidentally setting off unexploded ordnance and may suffer serious injuries as a result. the ccm (cluster munition convention), now signed by 20 member nations, prohibits the use of this weapon and calls on countries that have it in their arsenal to destroy it. i voted for the resolution because the ccm is the first step in the right direction towards a definitive ban on this deadly weapon. i voted against the resolution because i do not believe that the agreement can force countries to ban cluster munitions.
in writing. − the new common agricultural policy (cap) for europe's agriculture is due to come into force in 2014. the lyon report is the starting point for the intensive negotiations on the cap after 2013 over the next three years. for the first time, the eu parliament has full co-decision power on eu agricultural reform, acting as a key negotiator within the member states, the council and the eu commission. with the first proposals of the lyon report, the eu parliament is clearly setting a direction: a clear commitment to the common european agricultural policy with its two pillars, direct payments and rural development, which are also covered by the post-2013 agricultural model. only the cap, whose funding is maintained at least at the level of the 2013 budget in the next financial planning period, can ensure a comprehensive, multifunctional agriculture in europe and thus the supply of food from quality production. it is also necessary to find a suitable model for my country, austria, which will protect the small structures and provide a viable counterbalance for the mountain areas. agriculture, along with food production, makes a significant contribution to the preservation of the cultural landscape. i support the lyon report because i am committed to safeguarding the extensive agricultural and mountain areas, which offer a reliable future for young farmers.
in writing. - the last few decades have been marked by a massive loss of farmers across the eu. the cap has been reformed many times, the rules on agricultural support have become more complicated and the bureaucratic burden has increased. another problem is that the eu imposes high standards of quality, animal welfare and environmental protection on its farmers, but then allows imports from countries where these standards do not apply and where production is naturally much cheaper. in order to maintain food security and self-sufficiency within the eu, at least in principle, it is essential that small farming structures and farms in remote regions remain viable. simplification of the cap is only useful if it is not accompanied by restructuring which forces even more farmers into secondary farming or even closure of the farm and contributes to the death of farmers. the simplifications proposed in the report will certainly make life easier for farmers, which is why i voted in favour of them.
in writing. − the sustainable development of european aquaculture, fish farming and pond management, and the establishment of a better framework are essential for the competitiveness of the european fisheries industry. the quality of imported fishery products plays an important role in this context. in the light of the steady increase in imports from third countries, it is necessary to ensure that these imports also meet european standards. the european fisheries industry stands for high quality products and a great deal of expertise these trademarks must be defended. in this context, i welcome the iuu guidelines on combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, which came into force in january. this is an important step towards eliminating distortions of global competition and strengthening honest, upright fishermen. i support the report by mr cadec, which highlights a wide-ranging and important aspect of the european fishing industry.
in writing. − it is vital for any state to maintain its capacity for food self-sufficiency. fisheries are important for food and also provide a large number of jobs. as in the agricultural sector, we impose high environmental, animal welfare and quality standards on our domestic fish suppliers, which are naturally reflected in the price. however, there is little scrutiny of the import regulations. it is therefore all the more important that clear rules apply to imports, but also to food labelling and quality, and that competition with the domestic economy is not encouraged. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionising radiation. the measures proposed are a step in the right direction, and i voted for the report.
i have to say, madam president, i am very happy that the maguwu case is being dealt with today, because it is only the tip of the iceberg, and as we so nicely say, the fish is beginning to stink from the head. robert mugabe, once a skilled political fighter for the rights of the black population, is now a brutal dictator responsible for the economic collapse, famine and political terror in his country. his initially chaotic land reform eventually culminated in the expropriation of white farmers, the land is desolate, and 94% of the population is unemployed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are respected, and that the rights of the child are protected. but i agree with my predecessor that we must also include the protection of human rights in the kimberley process. instead of admonishing and complaining, we should be consistent in supporting the other countries in imposing sanctions to put pressure on zimbabwe, even to the point of excluding it from the kimberley process.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the kimberley process is an initiative by representatives of the diamond industry, governments and civil society to finally put a stop to the international trade in so-called blood diamonds. as early as 2008, evidence of serious violations of the cp rules was found in the marange diamond mining area in zimbabwe. farai maguwu is one of the courageous human rights activists who document cases of forced labour, torture and violence in his home country. the government of zimbabwe has participated voluntarily in the kimberley process; the commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this decision.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to ask that we vote on the text as soon as possible, if possible as early as wednesday. it is not a good idea to discuss this today and then vote late.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. this first free trade agreement since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has a number of positive elements: the role of the european parliament has been strengthened and safeguards are provided for in the event of violations of trade union and workers' rights. however, the free trade agreement with south korea cannot be used as a model agreement for future free trade agreements of the european union. why would you do that? the european union has set itself ambitious goals and values in the treaties, in particular the treaty of lisbon, and should also stick to them, for example in terms of human rights and the rule of law, to name just two cornerstones. i would therefore like to close the book on all other current free trade agreements, in particular the one with colombia and peru, with the andean countries, which is negotiated and finalized and needs approval. it is necessary to conduct a very careful human rights dialogue with third countries before concluding an agreement. the content of free trade agreements must be tailored to the specific situation of the countries concerned, particularly in the areas of trade, social and environmental standards. in particular, we must prevent the states - just like the eu - from chasing after the carrot of the free trade agreement and then, once they have reached the carrot, going back to their daily lives, because this would mean that these states would be given absolution for human rights violations!
i have to say, madam president, i thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their work and cooperation and wish them continued success in the negotiations. i particularly welcome the rapid progress in the negotiations on the safeguard clause of the korea agreement. the european parliament has shown, by the rapid vote in committee in july and the planned vote on the amendments in september, and by its ability to act in the negotiations, that we are working efficiently and constructively in the lisbon process. the council is now being asked to do the same, so that an agreement on the safeguard clause can be reached quickly. i welcome the commission's proposal for a declaration on social and environmental standards. this is a good compromise to underline the importance of this point. i believe that the strengthening of the role of parliament is an important step towards democratizing trade policy and i call on the council and the commission to find a solution to the question of how to involve the european parliament most effectively and most strongly. i would like to stress once again that parliament will be uncompromising on this point. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i would ask the commission to pay more attention to the korean government's planned co2 regulation and to press for a fair and free regime for our european companies in the negotiations. the issue of co2 regulation should be settled before the entry into force of the agreement. there is a lot of positive feedback from almost all sectors and industries: mechanical engineering, pharmaceuticals, electrical engineering, chemicals and numerous service providers. certainly some sectors would have liked more, but in general there is a great deal of satisfaction, with the exception of the car industry. and here again, the difference between some manufacturers and some suppliers is clear. we are on the right track with regard to the korea agreement.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission's communication on the major problems in the food supply chain in europe was the basis for the own-initiative report. the agricultural sector is particularly disadvantaged. these alarming problems are reflected in the dramatic fluctuations in the prices of raw materials in the agricultural sector. the economic crisis has not stopped farmers. the income of the holding has decreased in some cases by up to 28%. production costs have reached their highest level in fifteen years. in some countries farmers are already facing considerable difficulties in obtaining credit. the commission found that individual players at the end of the food chain abused their dominant position as a result of the monopolistic concentration. the practices that are sometimes used - including high listing fees for products, opaque pricing and disadvantages in price negotiations - are always to the detriment of farmers. the largest profit margins are obviously in manufacturing and trade. the farmer is sometimes faced with prices below the cost of production. we cannot allow cash flow problems to be blamed on farmers because downstream players do not pay their bills for months. farms are not commercial banks. the report focuses on the setting of payment targets. the negotiation process on the post-2013 cap was initiated by you, commissioner. and there is uncertainty within the profession as to the direction that agricultural policy in europe will take, what kind of agricultural production will be required in europe in the future: only intensive, productive and industrialised agriculture or multifunctional, sustainable and above all all all all-encompassing agriculture? the next few months will be the beginning of this. the european parliament is called upon to promote a commitment to multi-functionality and ultimately to security of supply in europe. the questions 'what will we eat tomorrow?', 'where will we live tomorrow?', and 'how will we heat tomorrow?' are more relevant than ever. and the answers lie in agriculture, because agriculture has more functions than just producing high-quality products. society expects the right policy measures to ensure sustainable production in europe!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. although food prices have been rising steadily recently and we are facing a price explosion for wheat due to the weather and agricultural speculation, store prices are not in relation to what small farmers get for their hard work. the eu's food prices are so high that it is difficult for an eu producer to compete without them, and so high are our social, quality, animal welfare and environmental standards - the standards we cannot or do not want to control when importing food. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. if this is not possible under eu centralism, then, in my view, the only thing left is the renationalisation of agricultural subsidies!
i have to say, madam president, the summer is over, we are back together in the autumn, but the procedure for the presidency is still not clear. i have the great pleasure of following the third president of the sitting - in your case, madam president - and i have signed up to catch-the-eye with your predecessor. it is not your problem, but it would be fair to decide who is to speak earlier. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. i was not informed that i obviously would not have a chance to speak today. i was expecting to speak here today. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. because if i had known that - as interesting as the debate was - i would still be on my committee on regional development and would not be waiting here and not speaking. i'm sorry, but i want this to be cleared up.
i have to say, madam president, i would just like to make a brief comment on the eu agencies. i presented a small paperback booklet on eu agencies in vienna today. the analysis for this pocketbook shows that we will have on average over forty agencies next year, if you add the executive agencies, the decentralized agencies and the council agencies. we will then be spending a total of 1.7 billion euros a year, and there will be about 7 000 eu officials working in this secret second eu bureaucracy. the growth of wildlife and the problems it has caused are now evident. what is urgently needed are solutions. i have formulated in my pocketbook an 11-point program to save 500 million euros a year in taxpayer money. any citizen can order it for free from me on the website.
i have to say, madam president, la macarena is not only a joyful dance, but also a small town in the heart of colombia that has become sadly famous. in 2009, local farmers complained about contaminated water. the undertaker of la macarena first said that he had buried about 2,000 unidentified bodies. coordinated by the organization justice for columbia, a delegation of mps and union leaders attended a hearing in la macarena. many of the participants marched for days through the jungle to tell their personal stories of raped, threatened, and eventually disappeared loved ones. two days later, the organizers told us that they had received death threats. we saw the mass grave, guarded by soldiers who are suspected of having been involved in the killings themselves. there is no country in the world where more people are forcibly disappeared than in colombia. the impunity rate for violent crimes is 90%. the early conclusion of an eu free trade agreement would be a reward for systematic human rights violations in colombia.
in writing. the procedure still takes between 12 and 17 months until the egf funds are made available. this period could be reduced if member states act on signs of mass redundancies. the member states are invited to find and exploit synergies in all respects, in order to allow a faster and more effective intervention by the egf at european level in the event of mass redundancies. the commission is invited to improve the information on the egf and its visibility among member states and potential beneficiaries. the interim report submitted by the commission to the ep is required to include, inter alia, the success rate of reintegration and an assessment of the improvement of the skills of the beneficiaries, as well as an analysis of the coordination between the different programmes financed at european level. the draft budget for 2011 provides for the first payment appropriations for the egf. the egf applications should not be financed exclusively by transfers from esf budgets, and different budget lines should be identified for this purpose. the egf is intended to help the most disadvantaged groups of workers, and to help them to find a job.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr lechner, for his good cooperation. practical compromises were found. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. second, public access through a single official access portal; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information is up to date and reliable. it is particularly important for consumers to be informed of the legal effects. finally, the system should be user-friendly. the commission will then be responsible for determining how this is to be technically implemented.
i have to say, madam president, brussels i is a very good regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i therefore regret that we have not been able to reach a compromise with mr zwiefka. brussels i maintains that the weaker party can obtain a correspondingly better position in that very brussels i plant by means of rules on jurisdiction which are more favourable to it than the general rules. and accordingly, it would be quite appropriate to introduce a separate jurisdiction for industrial action here, also for the purpose of preventing forum shopping, law shopping. this is particularly important to prevent cases like viking a court case that has caused a lot of dust in the future. i regret that i cannot discuss any further matters at this time.
i have to say, madam president, equal treatment in a united europe must not be a privilege but must be understood as a fundamental right. the role of women must continue to be strengthened so that they are also seen as equal in society. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rights of women are respected. it is absolutely sensible and necessary to provide support throughout europe. access to education and employment and social services must be given greater focus. this is the only way that integration can work. i would also like to mention the role of women in rural areas. the peasant woman is an elementary element in the rural environment and in the rural structure. their achievements are far-reaching and demonstrate their commitment. the marketing of own products in particular is often the work of women. they make an indispensable contribution in all regions of europe. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels.
i have to say, madam president, forced marriages, physical and sexual violence against women, death threats, total oppression, the lack of the possibility of self-determination in one's life, archaic images of women - all these are realities that are not only taking place in distant countries, but also here among us, in europe, in many migrant families. and some political elites, who like to play the role of great women's rights advocates, downplay these incidents to individual cases. serious human rights violations are justified and tolerated under the guise of religious freedom. but if we want integration, we must also speak out against such violations. and the eu is called upon to make a statement here and now for women and to take action against oppression in parallel patriarchal societies, whether in muslim families or in roma associations, where young girls are often excluded from any schooling. the eu-wide burqa ban and the criminalization of forced marriage in all member states would be the first concrete legal steps alongside integration and education. let us stand by our western values of the enlightenment!
i have to say, madam president, unfortunately, this report is still needed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are respected. if we look at the working lives of women, it is still a given that the bulk of care work, both child rearing and child care and care, remains with women, that large parts of this work are still not recognised financially or otherwise. we are dealing with a steadily growing old age poverty. but i would like to make a second point. we need a very specific approach to women's health needs, particularly in the area of health care. we know that women tend to be very good at looking after the health of their family members, but far too little at looking after their own. i would therefore ask the commission to make a conscious effort to remind the member states that women also need preventive care.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask you to allow me to use my speaking time together, so i will speak for three minutes. the european project when we debate the state of the union seems to be massively endangered to many people across europe in four ways: the prosperity and social security of europe seem to be threatened, the financial crisis and the possibly futile aid to greece have proved this to the people, the rising mass unemployment proves it to them, and the mass immigration into our social systems proves it to them as well. the union is seen as a toothless tiger, incapable of controlling the financial markets and developing appropriate criteria. secondly, people feel that civil liberties are in danger. there is little direct democracy in the union, and it is being ignored, as in the first irish vote or in the votes in france and the netherlands. the storage of data, for example, as manifested by the swift agreement with the usa, gives people the feeling that they are being constantly spied on. the european union is increasingly subject to paternalistic regulation, which gives citizens the feeling that their personal freedom is being eroded. and freedom of thought and speech is also increasingly being threatened by political correctness, i refer in this context to the debate on mr sarrazin in germany. thirdly, the cultural diversity and national identity of the peoples of europe appear to be in danger. cultural levelling and intellectual globalization lead to this, mass immigration leads to this, and of course islamization and abuse of asylum. the national identity of the european peoples is probably massively endangered. and fourthly, europe's standing in the world is massively endangered. europe is a laughingstock in foreign policy. the example of the middle east negotiations was mentioned, where europe is not even at the table, although we are the big paymaster throughout the world. europe's importance in the world is very small, europe is really not a major factor in foreign and world politics. we have succeeded in making this european union develop into a system which is becoming more oppressive and more rigid for its citizens, which is lacking in regionalism, cultural diversity and the like, and which is showing weakness to the outside world. the european parliament has been a very important instrument in the development of the european union, and it is not only the european parliament that has been the instrument of the european union, but also the european parliament, which has been the instrument of the european union. this is the situation of the union, a union which is no longer really prepared to safeguard the interests of the european peoples and the interests of the european citizens.
i have to say, madam president, mr president of the commission, you have stressed very strongly the importance of being careful about the roma issue and not really saying loudly, strongly and clearly what is going on in france. i would like to ask you, mr president of the commission, to be more specific. of course, caution is necessary, but in dealing with the people, with the roma, who are now being evicted from france and sent back! i believe that you have not acted quickly enough and have not been able to find a clear word with the french government. we shall discuss that this afternoon. we need a common european policy which will enable these groups of people - not only in france but also in other countries - to live in the countries in which they want to live. as some of my predecessors have said, the roma in europe are europeans. in france, i believe, 90% of the population is french. the current policy in france is against all european fundamental rights, and i expect you to be clear about that.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, it should be stressed that the many aspects which have now been brought into the debate are important for them. we need a new dynamic. we must stand up for the european union, for our aims and for our values. the future begins today, not the day after tomorrow. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and we're having some problems right now. the fight is between the future and a community europe versus the strengthening of nationalism. we must decide that we want to use these crises, as we have done in the past, to take the next step in integration. there is no continuation of the status quo. if we don't move forward, we fall back. and that is why we must take a stand for the project of economic and social union, alongside monetary union. we need initiatives, timetables and concrete sanctions mechanisms, not just announcements. we must stand for the principle of non-discrimination, for the principle of pacta sunt servanda, for solidarity. we need more acts of solidarity and we must not consider acts of solidarity as a cost factor, they are investments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would ask for the addition of a few words in paragraph 21. the text would then read in english: 'considers there is a need to prohibit selling below purchase price of agricultural produce at community level.'
in writing. - the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union was too early. the large socioeconomic differences between the old and new member states, in particular bulgaria and romania, are leading to massive labour migration from east to west within the eu. the justification of the free movement of workers cannot be used here, since the differences are so great that wage dumping and difficulties in integration into the labour market occur in the old member states. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − the european union has good political and economic relations with the republic of moldova, which should be maintained and further developed. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. the funds the eu pledges are clearly defined and will go to the right areas. this financial assistance, together with that of the imf, will contribute to the stabilisation of the republic of moldova's budget and will have a positive impact on the negotiations on an eu-republic of moldova association agreement. i support the macrofinancial assistance, which will help to strengthen political and economic relations and will subsequently benefit not only moldova but also the entire eu area.
in writing. − the moldovan economy has been severely affected by the impact of the international financial crisis, which has been reflected in a dramatic decline in economic performance, a deterioration in the public financial situation and an increase in external financing needs. since the country borders directly on the eu and has strong links with eu member romania, it is also of great interest to the eu to stabilise the situation in the region and to prevent large-scale economic migration at an early stage. the economic stabilisation and recovery in the republic of moldova is also supported by a financial contribution from the international monetary fund (imf). the commission shall ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is legally and factually consistent with the union's actions in the various external and other relevant union policies. the union's macro-financial assistance should be managed by the commission. in order to enable the european parliament and the economic and financial committee to follow the implementation of this decision, the commission should regularly inform them of developments in the assistance and make the relevant documents available to them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly implemented and that taxpayers' money is handled with care, which is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - i voted against the waiver of mr uspaskich's immunity, as a closer examination of the documents reveals that there is a partisan motive behind the action against him. as a member of the russian minority in lithuania, he and his party have been subject to repeated public attacks by the government. now he is accused of not having correctly accounted for the party finances over a period of three years. interestingly, the paymaster is not prosecuted. moreover, mr uspaskich was only the first year in office as party leader and therefore responsible. the incorrect procedure is rounded off by the handling of the case in the european parliament, where uspaskich was even denied a presentation of his opinion or an opinion in legal aid. the socialist rapporteur therefore seems to be taking part in this political process. this is to be rejected, since every case must be dealt with according to the rule of law criteria, which are not present here.
in writing. − in the business world in particular, it is essential that certain data are publicly available. in this respect, it makes sense to manage trade registers at national and regional level - on the one hand to ensure legal certainty, and on the other to comply with the principle of subsidiarity - but to make the data accessible across borders. interoperability is particularly important for companies operating across borders, for example in the case of relocation of headquarters and mergers. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of the environment. in this respect, the services directive should have cleared up some of the blocks. the crossborder cooperation is, however, partly unsatisfactory, particularly in terms of vocational requirements. for example, in austria, it requires intensive training and examinations to work as a tour guide, whereas in other countries this is not the case. the equality and controls promised for such problems are more than deficient. in view of the high quality of vocational training in austria, i abstained from voting.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the linking of business registers because, as the shadow rapporteur for the s&d group, i was able to find a good compromise with the rapporteur, mr lechner. my main concerns -
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that the linking of business registers can help to improve transparency in legal and commercial transactions. the objective of this project should be to facilitate access to information for market participants in general. it should be possible for everyone to find out who is really behind this or that form of society. this link would also work in the interests of consumer and creditor protection.
in writing. − the slowly receding economic crisis should encourage the european union to become even more resource-efficient and competitive than before. this can only be achieved through a sustainable economic model that brings a wide range of positive side effects for the environment and for our citizens. a stable framework must be created in which the eu's green employment potential can be fully developed, in order to ensure the sustainable development of the economy. i am voting for this report because economic growth, environmental protection and social cohesion go hand in hand and complement each other. not only should new 'green' jobs be sustainable, but the economy and society as a whole should contribute to this new way of doing business. the potential of the green economy must be fully exploited, and europe's global role as a progressive, sustainable and environmentally-friendly economic union must be further enhanced.
in writing. − once again, a nice word in an eu report. for example, it refers to optimised employment potential for women and men in the new sustainable economy, decent work, socially just change and meeting skills needs. at the same time, the eu must also be aware that the pressure on the labour market has increased considerably in some sectors, and that there is no prospect of improvement, particularly as a result of enlargement to the east. in addition, precarious employment such as temporary agency work, parttime work, macjobs and sham self-employment have increased considerably, particularly in recent years. nowadays, even a good education is no longer a guarantee of a job. as long as the talk of green cards for workers from third countries continues, in order to bring cheap labour to the economy, instead of trying to qualify residents accordingly, it will probably remain empty words. the demands don't sound bad, but paper is patient. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
in writing. - the report does not take sufficient account of switzerland's sovereignty. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. − compared with other countries with which the european union has negotiated or concluded free trade agreements, the former japanese colony of south korea has higher social and labour standards. it is important and proportionate that protection clauses are possible for a limited period of time at regional level in each eu member state. the past has shown that it is particularly important to be able to intervene in the import and export of goods so that structural adjustments or similar measures can be taken where necessary. it is also essential that exports and imports of those sectors with the potential to have the greatest impact are monitored in order to avoid significant injury to union industries. in principle, the conclusion of trade agreements is conducive to economic growth in the eu, and i voted in favour of the report accordingly.
in writing. - i support the bové report on improving the functioning of the food supply chain. the report deals with key issues for the future development of the agricultural sector and thus with ensuring the supply of healthy, controlled and fresh food to the european population. price transparency, fair competition, reduction of abuse of demand power, improvement of contracting, upgrading of producer groups and reduction of speculation in agricultural raw materials must be core concerns for farmers. the report by the european parliament is a signal to family farmers in times of global economic crisis. the report also targets all actors in the food chain who contribute to price distortions. the unilateral profit margins on the downstream side are balanced. it is not possible for some agricultural producers to be faced with producer prices below the cost of production.
in writing. - there are many things going wrong in the so-called food chain. first, the store prices have no relation to what the small farmers get for their hard work. and again and again, there is abuse of market power, unfair practices. suppliers must therefore go into their own pockets when they have to celebrate anniversaries, reorganize their supply chains, etc. there, children are being extorted mercilessly, and companies are engaging in disgusting label fraud with products as old as meat and other products. in order to halt the extinction of rural areas and the death of farmers, it is high time that agricultural subsidies were finally moved away from the multi-farm corporations and the millionaires to those who need the money to survive. if this is not possible under eu centralism and the brussels debt-relief mechanism, the only viable solution is to renationalize agricultural subsidies. the present report is not likely to improve the situation, although it does contain some good ideas. as a result, i abstained.
in writing. the report contains very correct and important elements, such as the fight against monopolistic structures in the agricultural sector, in order to guarantee a more secure income for small farmers. i am, however, against the report's approach to solving the problems in the agricultural sector by introducing more eu rules. this is the wrong way to go, what is needed is a major re-allocation of competences to the national and regional levels, where they are closest to the challenges. i therefore abstained.
in writing. − the globalisation adjustment fund is not only an important instrument to help those who have not had the opportunity to adapt to the opening of markets. the egf is also, and i think it is very important to emphasize this, an instrument for strengthening confidence in the european union. we are showing that when economic change comes, we do not forget those who cannot respond quickly enough. but i also think it's important that trust is mutual. money that is meant for people who, despite working hard, have fallen victim to market changes must also reach them. it is important that the allocation of funds is transparent and traceable and that they are not distributed in a 'one size fits all' manner. the situation of the people requires action across borders as well as at regional level, and therefore rapid action is necessary. only in this way can the egf fulfil its purpose and strengthen confidence in the eu through rapid assistance. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the brussels i regulation because i find that there are important points missing from the resolution. i am concerned about the need for a holistic approach to improving the regulation. this includes the protection of the weaker party by rules of jurisdiction in the proceedings which are more favourable to it. this concerns both workers and consumers, and this is what the regulation explicitly aims to achieve. my amendments, which strengthen the position of the weaker party, were not included in the report. i am concerned about the introduction of a separate jurisdiction for industrial action, also in order to achieve coherence between the brussels i and rome ii regulations. rome ii already regulates the law applicable to crossborder claims in connection with strikes. i cannot understand why the procedure should not also be carried out in the member state where the strike took place. the door to forum shopping remains open, and my aim is to close it in the further legislative process. i am also opposed to the introduction of forum non conveniens and anti-suit injunctions, common law legal instruments whose compatibility with the european rules of jurisdiction has already been rejected by the ecj on several occasions.
in writing. − the integration of ethnic minorities into public life is crucial for social peace in any country. however, unlike the present report, i see this as the fault of those who want to integrate. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i have voted against the report for these reasons.
in writing. − this report raises the question of whether women belonging to ethnic minorities are effectively excluded from eu gender equality action because of their lack of social integration. women belonging to ethnic minorities have remained largely invisible, although they are often at a double disadvantage - both socially and economically.
in writing. − with the entry into force of the eu charter of human rights and the lisbon treaty in december 2009 and spring 2010, respectively, the european union committed itself to prohibiting all forms of discrimination, whether based on social class, race, colour or sex, within the eu. however, eu citizens, especially older women, are still victims of discrimination. i support this report because i believe that it is necessary to give women of all ages the opportunity to be treated equally with younger people. in many areas of public life, older women are disadvantaged. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. in addition, the low level of pensions associated with the level of wages creates a further disadvantage, as men tend to receive a higher income. older women should not be seen as a burden but as active members of our society and should be recognised as such in the european union.
in writing. - the report on 'the role of women in an ageing society' contains many important aspects which i believe should not be considered as gender specific. the framework conditions for the whole population must be created, enabling workers to remain in employment for longer periods of time if they so wish and to live as self-determined a life as long as possible. however, i am more than sceptical about the affirmative action approach. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - 'social ageing' is usually equated with an unforeseeable future burden on national economies. in the course of this debate, only pension and care systems are discussed. as this report shows, women have lower pension entitlements due to caring duties, which in turn puts them at a higher risk of old age poverty. a spiral which must be broken by addressing this current change in our society in a comprehensive framework, including education and labour market policy.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i am deeply disappointed - and my group is with me - when i hear what the commission has said today. first of all, commission president barroso: commission president barroso has been less critical of the action than some ministers in the french government. this is outrageous! mrs reding, what you just said is not a clear answer. i, and many citizens of europe, want to know: has the french government broken the law or not? you can't say weeks after the measures have been taken, we'll look into it. say no or say yes, but give a clear answer. they believe everything that the french ministers have said after they have already acted. they didn't come to us before. first you throw people out, and then you tell them we're fair and we won't discriminate against anyone. if a commissioner were to stand up today and say that, i would find that scandalous. it is not what you have in mind and what you have done in your previous administration. that is why i am deeply disappointed that you are so eager to get away with this matter. (applause from the centre) you have no idea what responsibility you are taking on, because in a few weeks the next country - maybe italy, maybe hungary or other countries - will say: yes, we will strip people of their citizenship. if they are stateless, they will be housed in some kind of camps. the commission is not prepared to discuss this matter. i find that scandalous, and my group cannot accept it. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner reding, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have known you since i became a member of parliament as a commissioner who works against discrimination in many areas, and i had thought that you had been appointed commissioner for fundamental rights. but your speech today and your comments in the last few weeks, this hesitant approach to what happened in france - the mass deportations of roma - have disappointed me massively. i agree with many who have said that this is a scandal. on the one hand, you say that the french government has told you that there was no specific action in which fundamental rights were violated. on the other hand, you say later that you want to ensure that france also complies with european law. that means france has violated european law. why don't you just say that? i expect you to defend the freedom of establishment and movement of all european citizens with the same clarity with which the commission - and this has already been said - always clearly defends the freedom of the market, and not to underestimate it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in hundreds of settlements, roma live in a parallel world, often slipping into crime. this, of course, causes fear and terror among the inhabitants of the area. we must not forget the occasion. after all, the occasion was an attack by fifty masked romans on french policemen. the free movement of eu citizens must not be used as an excuse. i would also like to point out that romania in particular has a liberal policy of naturalization and is very generous in providing passports, especially to roma, but also to members of the moldovan mafia. it is not possible, of course, to have unrestricted freedom of movement in the eu - mobility, as has been called for on several occasions today - on the one hand, and the waste of passports and citizenship on the other, thus encouraging uncontrolled immigration into europe.
mr president, i will be very brief. first, commissioner, we had a debate on roma issues some months ago. parliament had been pushing for that debate. secondly, i am not fully satisfied, but what you said in your response just now was much stronger and clearer than what you said at the beginning of the debate.
i have to say, madam president, the apprentices/trainees are not educated. so wrote an austrian daily on september 2. i'm afraid that's the truth. there are now more open training places than suitable applicants and 30% of our trading companies cannot fill their apprenticeship posts. the fact that the number of pupils in compulsory education is low is a growing complaint from the enterprises. one in five enterprises is responsible for the general training of apprentices. the european union is also seeking to counter this by importing highly qualified workers from third countries. this is the miracle cure: more immigration, because our young people are not getting enough education in school. it is not possible, because that would be the bankruptcy of our education system, the bankruptcy of europe! the training sector therefore urgently needs a change of direction. without good qualifications, there is no access to the labour market, because our youth and, ultimately, the future of europe are at stake.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am particularly concerned not just with the creation of jobs, but with the creation of high-quality, sustainable, good jobs. the quality of work is still completely under-represented in the current employment guidelines. if the eu sets itself the objective of raising the employment rate of the 20-64 age group to 75% of the european average by 2020, then i believe there is a great danger of a fetishism of the masses, a mass ideology, as we have known it since the soviet era. it is therefore not just about achieving quantitative objectives, the quality of jobs is equally important. not every precarious, low-paying, lousy, temporary job can be counted in this calculation. the main objective should be to ensure secure employment contracts and good employment relations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was merely responding to mr clark's statement that we have a puppet court in the european union. i would like to object to that! i am sure mr clark is not a puppet, he is an elected representative, and i think he should also be the one to keep the house in order. we live in a democracy, and in a democracy, you don't call a court a puppet court!
the commission has already done so. can you initiate a discussion in the wto negotiations on the introduction of a quality label in international trade, particularly with small and mediumsized enterprises, which gives consumers in europe a guarantee from a recognised and registered organisation that these products are produced without the use of child labour? i think this would be a voluntary measure that could help very quickly.
the commission has already done so. perhaps i can reach you with some very personal remarks. i have experienced the media from two perspectives: first as a professional journalist, foreign correspondent for the mirror, and then as a non-party mp. and i experienced two completely different worlds: one relatively independent of the outside world, the other, when you are in politics, with great wonder. i can prove to you that the public media in germany and austria in political reporting is massively controlled by a few people. i was expelled from the orf because of political pressure, for example, from reinhold beckmann or elmar oberhauser, with the same theses that i was allowed to defend at first. we have a much bigger problem with freedom of speech than many of us realize. and i ask you to look especially at the supposedly independent public media, which is extremely one-sidedly dominated by the two major parties when it comes to political issues.
i have to say, madam president, all the speeches today have shown that media and freedom of expression are indispensable in our society here in europe and probably worldwide. but there is a counter-obligation, i believe, to protect the rights of the individual who is being reported. media has incredible power today, not least because of modern technology. it is our duty to think of those who are being reported. this is a marginal step and a challenge, but we must meet this challenge by providing the appropriate legal certainty, which we can provide here in the european parliament and in the european institutions, and which can then be passed on to the member states.
in writing. freedom is usually the talk of the town in the european union. the reality, however, is - unfortunately - different. freedom of expression and of the press in particular are in danger of becoming mere paper rights. in germany, for example, the statements of the federal banker thilo sarrazin on the failed integration of muslim immigrants have led to a campaign by the politically correct guardians of virtue, although the majority of the federal germans agree with sarrazin's statements, which are confirmed by statistics and observations in everyday life. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. so if you express an unwanted opinion, the modern inquisition even wants to destroy the bourgeois existence - a behavior that is actually known from dictatorships. in addition, there are other dangerous threats to freedom of expression and the press in the european union, with the so-called eu fundamental rights agency taking the lead: immigrants should be reported only in a positive light and problems such as asylum abuse or crime against foreigners should be avoided as much as possible because they contradict the multicultural ideology being promoted. and when, as in sweden, a private television station refuses to broadcast a right-wing party's commercial during election campaigns because of alleged anti-islamic sentiments, this is not only self-censorship but also manipulation of an election campaign.
madam president, i truly believe every word the commissioner has said and that she personally believes in implementing the rights of movement of every european citizen, be they gay, lesbian, heterosexual or whatever, be they married or in a registered partnership or whatever. the problem i have, as do all of us who have spoken, or at least most of us, is when you say that we need to go forward step by step, and that we need to make member states understand, and convince them, and to work against prejudice. i know that is the case, but i also think that, in all eu countries, citizens are a lot further ahead than their governments. let me tell you about warsaw europride this year, which i went to. i walked with around 20 000 people – lesbian, gay, heterosexual, bisexual, transgender – through the main streets of warsaw, with extremist demonstrators being pushed away by the police to the margins where they belong, and with lots of heterosexual citizens – such as women with their dogs watching from buildings – greeting us and saying that we, as lesbians and gays, were at the centre of society, in the mainstream. those equal rights in the charter of fundamental rights that you have been rightly quoting are for all of us. as ms ludford and so many others have said, we need the commission to push forward and not to wait for member states to slowly, maybe one day, do what they have to do for their citizens, for each and every one of us. let me give you my own example. for 17 years it was not possible in my country for me to have a registered partnership with my partner, but it has now been possible for a couple of months. if i have to go and live in another country like italy or greece, i do not want to have to wait again until we can be recognised and, in difficult situations, be able to say that we are partners, we belong to each other and we want to care for each other. so please, push. there are many in this parliament who want to push with you.
the commission has already done so. i want to pay you a compliment. it's obvious you do. the question is, can you? i urge you to be transparent with the citizens in the process you are pursuing with great commitment, to explain what is failing, even with goodwill, and that we are making only limited progress on the four cornerstones that are ultimately at stake. we need to know how it can still be found that financial market supervision in the united states is in many important respects more critical and more stringent than what you are trying to put forward. we still need clear answers on how you intend to tackle the shadow banking problem and what successes can be expected. we also need clarification on equity. what does the commission want? there are many details, but how to make sure that there is no more crash? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have the situation in austria with a bank, hypo group alpe adria, where, when the loans now come due, the debt burden of the austrian nation state is driven so high that we end up in the greek category. does the commission warn against this? what's she doing? how does it prevent austria from becoming a second greece for the european union?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i got five points: first of all, i must say that i regret that such an important ecofin meeting as yesterday's is taking place in parallel with the speech by the president of the commission on the state of the european union. i expect better coordination. if we want to be on the same page, we must coordinate, listen and talk about the topics that are the european union's highlights. it was a parallel event that was unnecessary and took away both of their strengths. secondly, the supervision. i would like to thank the presidency of the council, the commissioner and parliament. without parliament's decision in july, we would not have had the progress we made over the summer and the biting supervision. without parliament's decision in july, the ecb president would not be the head of macro-prudential oversight. the reinforcements were achieved through the active cooperation of parliament and the belgian presidency of the council, with the support of the commission. thank you very much. thirdly, yes to the europeanisation of budgetary preparation! but we must be clear that the second pillar of monetary union will only be possible if we pursue economic and social union and if we make budgetary and fiscal policies european in the first place, and not just coordinate them. my fourth point, bank transfer, yes, but not into a bottomless barrel. community policy, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union. fifthly, the financial transaction tax must make both proponents and opponents feel that they are being circled and planted. mr president-in-office, you have just said that this was the first serious debate. we have been talking about it for a year, we have been asking questions, we have been passing resolutions. they shift responsibility to the g20, the commission and the member states. we want the five questions answered: what is the assessment basis? what's the percentage? who's collecting the tax? who gets the money and for what? you submit a project, we'll discuss it further and we can finally make nails with heads!
in writing. the new rules for the internal financial market are welcome, as they mean improvements and increased security, especially for investors. financial markets have been operating across borders for decades, and financial authorities must now act across borders themselves. however, the implementation of these decisions requires the national authorities to relinquish parts of their powers and to transfer them in practice to the community institutions. however, this is an essential prerequisite for a functioning internal financial market.
the commission has already done so. there is a clear consensus here that we need the best health care and prevention for europeans. this includes reliable medicines with the least possible side effects. this includes new, modern treatments. unfortunately, with the current state of science, all of this will not be possible without animal testing. i therefore consider this report to be a rather successful attempt to strike a balance between animal welfare and health and safety for people. the three 'v's' of prevention, reduction and improvement are the basic conditions for achieving what we have so often spoken about today, namely the dignity of man, which for me includes respect for animals. we need prior authorization, strict controls and inspection systems. laws alone will not be enough. we must be vigilant to see that what is written in the reports is also put into practice.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a member of the committee on industry and research, i naturally welcome this arrangement and the agreement reached here. i know it's always difficult to find a compromise, but we need to have appropriate ethical standards in animal testing, as well as human testing. and these can only be the highest standards available. of course, it is also about developing alternatives. the alternative test methods in particular should be given a correspondingly intensive treatment in the 8th framework programme. we also need simplified procedures, which are laid down here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively and that the community's financial instruments are used effectively.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make it clear that europe has the highest animal welfare standards in the world. this report is another step in the right direction towards animal welfare. the common objective is to limit animal testing and to improve the conditions for animals used for research. it is generally welcomed that animal testing should be replaced by other methods where possible and that standards for breeding, housing and care should be improved. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the use of pesticides in the food industry. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. research and its downstream industries in europe must not be at a disadvantage internationally and vis-à-vis other sectors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare standards are met. the high european standards of quality and animal welfare must also be given due recognition in the interests of fair competition. the rapporteur, elisabeth jeggle, has done an excellent job on this highly sensitive report and deserves our support.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the planned plurilateral trade agreement acta is intended to improve the fight against product piracy and copyright infringement through international cooperation, coordination of law enforcement and new intellectual property laws. there is no question that there is a need for continuous transparency. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of personal data. the ep has asked the commission to assess the possible impact of the agreement. this has not yet happened, unfortunately. the protection of intellectual property is out of the question for me, but equally important are both data protection and the protection of privacy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. quote: while intellectual property is important to society and must be protected, it should not be placed above individuals' fundamental rights to privacy, data protection and other rights". end of quote. let us work on this agreement in accordance with all the laws in force. together !
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the effective enforcement of existing rules and laws to combat product piracy and strengthen intellectual property is undoubtedly welcome. unfortunately, there is a great deal of ignorance and uncertainty among the public. i regularly receive emails from concerned citizens who complain about the lack of transparency during the acta negotiations and see acta as a deep intrusion into their rights and freedoms. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the preliminary ruling of the european court of justice of 19 february 2009 clearly shows that internet access providers can be held liable for infringing the copyright of their customers. the eu's citizens may therefore be prevented from accessing the internet under the existing treaties. the problem is not acta, the problem is regulations within the european union that could restrict the freedoms and rights of eu citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, you have assured us that this acta agreement will not change anything at the moment. but we are not given the opportunity to make up our own minds, to form our own opinions, to bring in our own legal expertise, as to whether the collateral damage to civil rights in europe from this treaty cannot be much greater than what you are saying here. we just have to rely on one word! if so, why is there no transparency? i know it was the american negotiators. but can the european commission simply give in to good conscience in this matter? i think not! the second point is the question of geographical indications of origin. i would make it clear at the negotiating table that these designations of origin in europe are in practice a form of trademark protection and that, in my view, this point must be brought back into the negotiations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. three points in short: first of all, of course, congratulations to the initiators of the written declaration on acta! it's over now. my second point concerns transparency, and i have a question for the commissioner: how do you explain to us as members of the european parliament that we are dependent on an american civil rights organisation to get the text at all? i have the text right here. i will hand it to you later and ask you to assure me that this is also the original version of the text. thirdly, the liability of the supplier. can you rule out the possibility of introducing provider liability again through the back door?
in writing. - employment policy is of paramount importance for both the economy and social peace. it is therefore in the interest of each nation to decide for itself what steps are appropriate. however, the wide variation between member states makes a uniform package of measures impossible. the employment rate of 75% is completely illusory in some member states, such as poland, malta and hungary, which are currently below 60%. for austria, which is around 70%, it is more than questionable whether a higher employment rate is compatible with freedom of choice in child rearing or the protection of domestic workers from wage dumping by foreign cheap labour. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - the effective fight against unemployment in the eu is illusory in an ultra-liberal union. i therefore voted against the report by mr öry.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in february 2010, the knesset passed a law that abolishes the tax exemption for all organizations that cooperate with foreign groups. in april, a bill was introduced to ban all ngos that pursue cases critical of israel abroad. obviously, in israel, as a critic of the system, you quickly become the number one enemy of the state, and so the new israel front is publicly accused of having destroyed the foundations of the israeli state, simply because it helped to produce the goldstone report. the eu must therefore take a clear position on this intolerant development. the ngos are also important elements of the political participation of citizens in israel and palestine and therefore absolutely worth protecting in a kind of democracy. we expect those who, like israel, are seeking to be associated with the eu to play by the european rules and respect european standards.
mr president, i would like to thank commissioner füle for the words he very clearly expressed about israeli civil society – which is very vibrant, as we all know – but also for his criticism of the law that has been changed. one of the points that i found very positive in the process that has been going on is that some of the very bad parts of the law actually have been changed. however there are still some issues that might need closer review by the members of the knesset. you mentioned one of them – the fact that private funding is not part of the law where transparency is required. we know very well – in our countries as well – that there is private funding and there should be transparency. somebody else said that political parties should be open about which private individuals, companies etc. are funding them. in my own country there are problems about that. that is an issue that, in all friendship with israel and the knesset, i hope will still be changed so that civil society in israel will be as transparent as most of it is anyway, but will also be active in the future for peace in the region.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we know that jordan, because of its border situation, plays an important role in the politics of the middle east. while in the relationship between israel and jordan, the river has contributed to peace thanks to the contractual guarantee that jordan can draw larger amounts of water, the opposite is likely to be true in syria. it is an open secret that the fear that israel could be dug up by syria is the real reason why israel refuses to return the golan heights. if the jordan river is indeed becoming a wastewater stream due to constant water abstraction - perhaps this is the price to pay for a green desert - the situation in the middle east will undoubtedly worsen in the foreseeable future, especially since there are hamas leaders who speak of the liberation of the entire area between the mediterranean sea and the jordan as a moral, religious duty. the water shortage of the jordan river is even more concerning, for as the jordan dries up, the water supply to the dead sea also decreases. so the potential for conflict, the area of conflict, is going to increase. we should consider that in our middle east strategy.
i have to say, madam president, we have had a very intensive discussion today on how we can help the council to make savings in the 2011 budget, and of course there has been a very intensive discussion on the diplomatic service, which is now being reorganised. do you think that we can make efforts in the field of the united nations to make the posts more efficient, so that the european union can speak with one voice here, and that we can also save resources that we could very well use in other areas? the belgian presidency is prepared to put forward proposals for savings in this respect, which will help to achieve this objective of greater efficiency in the european common representation.
i have to say, madam president, the 2011 budget is currently being discussed and in this context the council has proposed, together with the commission, to make available funds from the competitiveness innovation programme, which includes the 'intelligent energy for europe' programme, the ict support programme and the 'entrepreneurship and innovation' programme, but also funds from the seventh framework programme, as well as agricultural funds for the iter fusion reactor science project. what is the starting date of the belgian presidency of the council?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is now established beyond doubt that the placing on the market of meat derived from cloned animals is associated with increased risks to human health, in particular as cloned animals and their offspring are more susceptible to various diseases. the existing prohibition on products of cloned animals should therefore be extended to their descendants. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of animals during transport. in any event, it is necessary to ensure without delay that consumers are fully informed of the origin of meat when they buy it. consumers must be given the opportunity to opt out of such a product. above all, we must ensure that people are not sold such products. as we have recently learned, products of cloned animal offspring have entered the food chain in the united kingdom. the uk may not be an isolated case. unfortunately, it is assumed that the citizens of european nations are consuming cloned meat without knowing it. this is unacceptable!
the commission has already done so. in the united kingdom, cloned meat has been introduced into supermarkets for the first time. the incident received a lot of media attention and led to consumer uncertainty on the one hand and unjustified accusations on the other. the british food authority was in a state of emergency and the issue was quickly blamed on the willingness of farmers to report. commissioner, we cannot allow the farmers to be blamed for the omissions in eu legislation. in europe, only products from cloned animals themselves, but not their descendants, are currently subject to authorization. the european parliament has made its views clear in the novel food regulation. the principle of supply must be applied particularly to foodstuffs. apart from ethical concerns, there is no need for cloned meat to ensure food security. there seems to be a serious interinstitutional disagreement on the handling of cloned food. the commission is therefore called upon to reach an agreement and take the right steps, in the interests of consumers and producers alike.
the commission has already done so. politics needs scientific data as a basis for policy decisions. but to me, it would be stealing from political responsibility if the mere scientific judgment that "this is doable" means that we have to do something. my job is not to implement the technically feasible, my job is to represent the interests of my constituents. and they overwhelmingly, and this applies to the whole of the eu, want no clone meat on their plates. it cannot be a question of health safety alone. the commission has also taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's policy on the environment is not distorted. i now expect this to be the case with meat and meat products from cloned animals and also with those from the second generation. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we shall see what the science of health will say in the future. we need a moratorium on second-generation animal products. a firm no to products made from clone meat!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. 20% less greenhouse gas emissions, 20% share of renewable energy, with 10% of fuels to come from renewable sources. these are the european union's ambitious objectives to combat climate change and achieve energy independence. the question is how to achieve these objectives. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. agriculture can and will make a significant contribution to the 2020 targets. in certain agricultural sectors, however, policy is increasingly moving away from the market order. in the starch potato sector, the health check has created conditions which are likely to lead to massive production cuts. the end of the quota system and the minimum price have put the sector under enormous pressure. here, too, a soft landing must be ensured. the commission is invited to find measures to safeguard starch potato production, particularly in regions where alternatives are lacking. the use of potato starch products will continue to be of great importance in the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not our rapporteur, lidia geringer, has presented an ambitious report. if all those involved in the european legislative process adhere to this, much will be gained. finally, the credibility of european law is at stake. the regulatory environment should be strongly improved. it is about more transparency, coherence and effectiveness of european law. two elements of the report are particularly important. simplifying the law better lawmaking must not lead to a lowering of european standards contained in legislation. in this respect, better lawmaking must be seen in close connection with another initiative, smart or better regulation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the drafting of the new legislation. i also have a particular interest in the excellent impact assessment system, as do all those who have contributed to this report. we need a system which clearly shows that the independence and credibility of the measures taken are guaranteed. after all, we've had some pretty bad experiences in the past. i am thinking of the services directive and the unilateral assessment of the consequences, particularly by the commission at the time. the lisbon treaty now provides for a horizontal social clause. it is also the basis for me to say that we pay particular attention to the impact assessment system - as already mentioned - that a comprehensive consultation of the social partners is carried out with regard to the employment and social impacts.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. if 27 legal systems want to meet and act together, then it is foreseeable that there will be difficulties. that is why there is a lot of criticism of european legislation to which we must respond. this response must include essential elements such as impact assessments that are truly independent and take into account all the players in the field, not just the economy, industry and lobby groups. this is very important to me. the second point, and this is where it becomes particularly critical, is the implementation of community law at national level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to say a few words about the principle of subsidiarity. it is of course necessary that politics should be carried out at the regional or local level. it is only there that politics is really transparent to the citizen, and it is only at this level that the important instrument of direct democracy can be implemented in a truly adequate way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so you have to use quantitative and qualitative criteria to argue why policy is at eu level and not at local level. but it is the case now, and i want to make this point here, that this very requirement of justification is constantly being ignored. the commission report provides some information indicating that these tasks are already being carried out at national level. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products. the subsidiarity control right which has now been introduced by the treaty of lisbon is not sufficient in my view, the national parliaments do not have sufficient power, and this control right is, after all, a sham control right. i therefore call on the commission in particular to apply the principle of subsidiarity much more closely and, above all, to comply fully with the requirement to state reasons.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. unfortunately, i have seen very little of the improvements that this further step in liberalization promises to bring. quite the opposite. the feedback we as members of parliament receive suggests that things are getting worse. we are already seeing a thinning of postal services in the countryside. access to postal services in rural areas is no longer guaranteed, especially in hard-to-reach settlements. we have additional jobs, but these are mini-jobs that you cannot live on, that can only mean an extra income in a family. however, if the advertising industry is the only one to be considered as a postal user, then there will of course be a success, because the business environment has undoubtedly improved for them. the universal service, which is supposed to guarantee basic health care, is now to be paid for by the member states, which are under enormous pressure because there is no longer any budgetary scope to guarantee this care in rural areas through subsidies. in this case, commissioner, the impact assessment has taken far too little account of the direct impact in this area, and this is leading to a deterioration of the situation for consumers and postal workers.
the commission has already done so. i just participated in the debate on better lawmaking. post-market liberalisation is an example of how many of the negative effects would not have occurred if an independent, credible impact assessment had been carried out, as in the better regulation report presented above. the commission has not published a single study dealing solely with the social conditions and consequences of the liberalization of the postal market. the commission only supports national regulatory authorities in order to guarantee pure competition without barriers. the consequences are well known: unsafe shipments, low-paid, low-skilled labour, delivery in three days, different prices for different regions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the postal services are not subject to the same restrictions as the postal services in the member states.
mr president, i would like to move the following amendment as a new paragraph 9a. i will read it: ‘considers that the situation of roma in europe can in no way affect the forthcoming accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area, nor the rights of their citizens’. i hope the house can support that amendment.
in writing. − the present report claims that the lisbon treaty strengthens the role of national parliaments, but in reality the member states have only had to hand over more powers to brussels. in fact, there are still situations in everyday life where it is clear that the legal system is still causing problems across borders. the commission has also been active in the area of environmental legislation, with a number of initiatives in the field of environmental protection, such as the european environmental audit, where member states have delayed implementation in order to avoid it for large projects such as the temelin extension. now, while it may seem sensible to do an impact assessment, and the goal of reducing administrative costs and simplifying legislation is also welcome, the eu has been doing this for years, but it has had little impact on businesses and citizens. the present report does little to change this situation, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - in the current debate on roma, i finally voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the epp group. it presents the problem objectively and also makes reasonable suggestions for solutions. the motion by the united left, on the other hand, shows how detached and totally alien to the world these politicians are. they speak of 'massive and systematic discrimination' and of a general anti-gypsyism, ignoring the fact that the roma must also abide by the same laws as all other european citizens. the left is clearly a thorn in the side of the left when they complain about fingerprints being taken from registered roma. this would be unjustified discrimination. but these same people have no problem in requiring all other citizens to give their fingerprints when issuing a passport. left logic. the reaction of the sarkozy government, even if it was motivated by opportunistic considerations, is at any rate sensible and necessary to protect its own citizens. i therefore voted against the motion for a resolution tabled by the left.
in writing. −for many years, it has been clear that care will be unfinanciable sooner or later. however, all measures have been put on hold and the victims and their families have been left in the lurch. as with child rearing, the services of caregivers and volunteers are undervalued and social networks are destroyed in the name of capitalism. instead, the population was told that unrestrained mass immigration was necessary to guarantee the maintenance of social systems and thus also the care of the elderly. the opposite is true. these have only accelerated the impending financial collapse. the debate on the financiability and financial burden of care is coming much too late. if the priority is to be given to the expansion of palliative care and home health care, it is unlikely that a change will be possible. it is a welcome step to investigate elder abuse in care. the bill of lading is years too late. i voted for it, though.
i have to say, madam president, the eu has been paying its fair share to help the african union build an african security architecture since 2004, according to a brochure from the united nations regional information centre. the financial support amounted to at least eur 300 million until 2007. but this financial support only makes sense if the african union actively participates in the peacekeeping efforts in african crisis regions. in fact, the african union is not very cooperative. the summit in libya in july 2009 decided that member states would not extradite the president of sudan if he entered the country. the old saying is that the one who pays is not very elegant, but it contains a certain truth. in plain language, this means that the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy must make it clear that eu funds for peace-building in africa can only flow if the african union and the arab league cooperate with the international criminal court in the future, rather than torpedoing its work.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the 1963 emergency laws are still in force in syria. freedom of expression, press and assembly are severely restricted in syria. politically motivated arrests are common in syria, and one of the detainees is mr al-maleh. he has already spent several years in prison because of his involvement in human rights cases. in october 2009, the 80-year-old was arrested again and sentenced to a prison term by a military court. the eu must make a strong contribution in dialogue with third countries to ending the persecution and repression of political activists and their family members.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i did not want to call in beforehand and interrupt the rapporteur again. i am quite right: it is monstrous how things have gone at the beginning of this debate. the debate is about air accidents, it is about human lives and how to prevent such accidents and how to protect people. i think that's at least as important as policy debates. we should think about how we can prevent such chaos in the future at the beginning of a debate on important issues. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the importance of this report cannot be overestimated, since it brings together at european level information which was previously available in isolated form but which could not be used to give a global picture because there was no way of linking this information together. in addition, in times of enormous competitive pressure in air transport, it is very necessary and indispensable that people who pass on information particularly about sources of technical error also need to be protected from pressure from competing airlines or from their own airline. it is really important to ensure that this information, which is so important for prevention, is also protected and that there is a clear regime for balancing the legal investigations necessary in these cases with the technical aspects of prevention, so that there is no overlap. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much. we have worked together excellently and have taken a very important step here.
i have to say, madam president, i think the worst thing is when you're a relative of a passenger or a passenger who's flying away and you hear there's been a crash, there's been an accident, and you don't know what it is. i think that this report - and i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs de veyrac, on this - is making a difference. the possibility of calling someone to be contacted and the airlines' obligation to give out passenger lists within two hours is something which i think is eminently important in order to be able to remedy this uncertainty and to help those who do not know what has happened. secondly, this balance between the system of internal investigation and the system of external investigation, which is always so difficult to achieve, has been well founded, in order to protect those who want to report, on the one hand, and to safeguard the public's interest in clarity, on the other. that is why this report is very good. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again. a good piece of work has been created.
i have to say, madam president, air traffic is increasing steadily. safety is my number one priority. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. i too join in the congratulations on this report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this agreement is right, it is necessary and we should thank the commission for having achieved a result. the consideration of minimum humanitarian standards in the country of origin is in principle part of any readmission agreement. this is a prerequisite for the conclusion of such agreements. and it is not about asylum seekers - that is the address of the greens or the address of the left. read the agreement. it's not about people in need of protection, it's about people who are here illegally! this is the group of people that is covered here. asylum seekers, we cannot include the deportation of people in need of protection in a readmission agreement. what we need now is to ensure - and i am grateful for the evaluation you have just announced in your statement - that the implementation of return decisions is also carried out, because the number of actual returns is much lower than the number of return decisions. i have figures here from 2008, which show that there were 609 000 illegal immigrants, 608 000 return decisions and 214 000 people who were actually returned. we need a common european strategy here. we need a common strategy with third countries to do this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the combination of restrictive eu external border security and strict application of readmission agreements can stem the tide of illegal immigrants. i think that lampedusa is a good example of this. while tens of thousands of migrants stormed italy's coast every year until 2008, now the overcrowded reception centers are becoming increasingly empty. the commission must therefore be supported by parliament in the rapid negotiation of further agreements, for example with turkey. but absurd demands such as that of libyan leader gaddafi, that the european union should provide africa with at least 5 billion euros a year to combat illegal immigration, must be rejected. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the european union's policy on illegal immigration. the commission is also proposing to strengthen the european union's border management system by providing a european border guard service.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the great euphoria over turkey's democratic progress following the recent referendum must be put into perspective. because turkey has so far failed to cooperate with the eu in the return of refugees and migrants. turkey is not only a country of origin but also a transit country for refugees from the middle east, iraq and iran. however, cooperation with the joint refugee defence is essential. frontex is helping with technological issues, but that does not mean that the eu has to cover the costs of turkish border protection in general. the eu cannot be ankara's milk cow, and the pre-accession aid is very generous. turkey must therefore respect the geneva refugee convention and fundamental rights deficiencies must not be used as an excuse to refuse to return refugees. it is not possible that ankara, while pushing for closer relations with brussels, is at the same time generously channelling refugees to the supposed eldorado eu. a readmission agreement must therefore be concluded as soon as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union and turkey have very good economic relations and of course we need to continue to develop trade with turkey, so as to bring about sustainable economic growth for the european union on the one hand and for turkey on the other. in this context, i welcome the own-initiative report which deals with current developments, with relations between the two sides of industry, even if they are not entirely positive. i would like to mention issues such as the fight against product and brand piracy, import restrictions for pharmaceutical products, but also inconsistencies in the field of public procurement, which must be critically examined. i would like to draw particular attention to turkey's protectionist measures in trade in agricultural products, which are contrary to the provisions of the customs union. turkey has an employment rate of over 26% in the agricultural sector. it is therefore understandable that special importance is attached to agriculture and the farmers who work in it. this must not be done to the detriment of european farms and against the guidelines of the customs union. the existing obstacles and protectionist measures of turkey must be removed as quickly as possible within the framework of the existing agreements. the export of high-quality agricultural products from the european union must not be restricted by unfair trade-restrictive measures. i think that is what we have to say here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fact that we are debating here in this house about functional trade relations, about improving the customs union with turkey, is of course to be seen as part of the country's process of rapprochement with the european union, also as part of the process which is supposed to lead to turkey's accession to the european union in wider areas. we also know that the critics of this accession always speak of a privileged partnership which should be an alternative to this accession, and basically it must be said that turkey already has such a privileged partnership through an existing customs union, a privileged partnership which it will have to earn on other levels too - on political levels. if we consider the resistance we still have from turkey to the recognition of the armenian genocide, if we consider that turkey is still unwilling to solve the cyprus problem in a european sense, and if we consider that the kurdish people are still discriminated against, then we know that the improvement of trade relations alone will not make it possible to europeanise turkey.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to congratulate mrs de lange on her excellent report and also the shadow rapporteurs on the excellent cooperation they have shown. the facts and figures are on the table, they are in this report, and it is clear that we have a moral obligation to preserve biodiversity, but also an ecological and an economic one. it would be madness if we didn't have more success here in the future. i can only see one problem, and that is the acceptance of the citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and the commission should really pay more attention to ensuring that the same standards are applied here. many citizens do not mind that biodiversity is being defended, people understand that. but what people don't understand is that in some countries it's very lax and in others it's very strict. if we can create a level playing field here, we will have the political acceptance of the people, which is a sine qua non condition for this policy to be successful in the long term. the commission is therefore requested to come up with guidelines so that we can finally have uniform guidelines here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. biodiversity is a matter for all of us. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. i therefore support the call for the commission and the member states to improve decision-making structures and compliance in many ways.
in writing. the massive bee deaths in recent years, which are not yet clear whether they are due to a reduction in biodiversity or to genetically engineered plants, show that our knowledge is flawed. not only are the effects of biodiversity on the stability of ecosystems still largely unknown, we don't even know regionally what variability is present in an area. the year of biodiversity 2010 should therefore be used to fill gaps in knowledge and raise awareness. on the one hand, to enable countries and municipalities to include biodiversity considerations in sustainable development of settlements, but also in wetland protection, water restoration and so on, on the other hand, so that the average citizen can make his contribution. consider the japanese beetle, which began as an ornamental garden plant but has now overgrown, displaced, and caused extensive damage to shore-fence structures with its root system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the agricultural reform can be used to move away from mass production towards more sustainability and the promotion of landscape management. we also need to develop strategies to ensure that energy plantations and biodiversity do not compete for the same area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today, let me refer to the transfrontier region of central europe, the alpine-adriatic region, which comprises friuli, the veneto region, slovenia and carinthia. it reflects the linguistic and cultural diversity of europe and shows the overcoming of serious historical contradictions. for example, the so-called carinthian consensus group has been working for years on a peaceful coexistence between the german majority and the slovenian minority in carinthia and has been awarded the european citizen's prize of this parliament. but peaceful cooperation is not to be encouraged if, for example, in the run-up to the referendum on the border agreement with croatia in ljubljana, it is claimed that carinthia, trieste and görz have been taken away from slovenia, even though the people of southern carinthia chose austria in a completely democratic referendum in 1920, exactly 90 years ago. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. the only way to do this is to follow in the footsteps of yugoslavia by maintaining the avnoj decisions, which are contrary to international law, and that is not a positive thing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is no coincidence that we cannot agree so easily on this case, because two incompatible matters are being mixed up. we probably could have gotten along on trademark protection if we'd focused on that. but the mixing with the internet is also objectively wrong, because here new strategies are needed that are different from those in the field of substantive law. it's not something you can just transfer. and you also have to be aware that we're paying for every law enforcement action on the web with civil rights violations, because you can't see that or find out for yourself. the third thing is really clear to me: if i'm already putting cultural enjoyment on the web under threat of criminal prosecution, so that i'm practically always with one leg in jail every time i look at the web, then i'm not going to be able to take advantage of the opportunities that the internet also offers for art and culture and creativity. that is why i am calling for a further discussion. that would be wise.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fight against counterfeiting is of course a top priority, even here in the house. however, i must say that i cannot of course agree with the report tabled by my colleague on wednesday, because i share the concerns of many young people and citizens that there is an attempt - in article 22 among other things - to make internet blocks via the back door acceptable again. it is also to be rejected that the terms piracy and imitation are used synonymously by the commission and here in this report. this creates additional legal uncertainty. piracy as a term is not appropriate for the use of non-commercial internet exchanges. this is a de facto criminalization of many millions of citizens, as the alternative report of the greens and the social democrats rightly pointed out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i believe that the structures currently in place can deal with this matter very sparingly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. property whether it is intellectual or physical property is a pillar of the market economy. so it's important that we think about how we can work this issue together in a good consensus. we need a one-stop shop, anyway. it must be easier for consumers, the selfemployed, small and mediumsized enterprises to obtain the appropriate licences. the availability of eu-wide intellectual property rights licences is particularly important. we need a single market for intellectual property. we also need the original language to be available throughout europe. each language is an important cultural asset and it should be possible for licences issued for one language to be valid throughout europe and therefore to be used by all citizens. we need interoperability and technical neutrality to be able to use this intellectual property accordingly. and above all, we need sanctions against those who violate competition and trade law.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not first of all, of course, i would like to thank mr vidal-quadras very much for his good report and, above all, for the good cooperation between him and the shadow rapporteurs and also the chairman of the committee who led the talks with the spanish presidency. we got a good result. it is, of course, about solidarity at european level - that is the central point - about the joint construction of pipelines, about the reversal of gas flows and, above all, about the protection of consumers who deserve protection. this is regulated by direct legislation, as i said, which has been criticised by some, but which is very important in order to send a clear signal. the commissioner has already made a little headway by saying that this is not the end of the story. i want to support him in this. we should go a little further. the commission has recently published a report by the jacques delors group on the possibility of establishing a european energy community. i know our president is very supportive of this. i am very glad that he is doing so, because i believe that it would be a very important element in the progress, in the advancement of the european unification process, that we establish here a common european community on energy matters without changing the treaty. because it's also important that we don't get into a contract change discussion. solidarity must really come first. secondly, the common appearance both inside and outside. what do i mean, "inside"? i think that the commissioner has mentioned this too, and the more we go into solar energy, into wind energy, the more we have to expand, because then we have to ensure, together with increased storage capacity, that if solar or wind energy is not being supplied at the moment in the right quantities, other energy producers can take over. the commission has already made a number of proposals. and of course the external aspect: we have more and more of a common market, while other countries do not. russia does not have a common, open market, but has monopolistic and state structures. if we are to face them, we must face them together - in the sense of a common european external energy policy, but perhaps also in the sense of a common action by european gas companies to obtain better prices and better conditions and, of course, the development of infrastructure such as nabucco and others. i am glad that the commission has taken this step.
i have to say, madam president, most gas suppliers have announced large price increases due to rising demand. there is talk of a doubling of wholesale prices. i think it is therefore foreseeable that moscow may again provoke a gas crisis in the winter. in the past, the eu has probably been far too hesitant in its role as mediator. the existing disputes over competences between the new eu leaders may leave the member states concerned feeling let down again. but weak eu crisis management has consequences. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community is not able to take action on its own. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the next gas dispute will show whether the european energy early warning system is worth the paper it is printed on and whether the competence salad after lisbon has been solved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the gas supply to the community is not reduced to a mere mere pipeline.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to agree with the main points made by the chairman of our delegation to china, mr rivellini. for all the criticism of the work of the european union, which i always try to see as constructive, i think that the meetings with china are of central importance and that we should always keep in mind what happened in the helsinki process: the change through rapprochement, that we continue to have the very big issues in the trade area, in wto issues, where i think we continue to have different opinions. i would ask you to pay particular attention to african issues. what you see there is that the chinese side is unfortunately very deliberately violating human rights standards in construction, in important projects. i hope you can address that as well.
in writing. − the commission proposes 20 additional permanent ad posts for the european anti-fraud office (olaf), as the office now has the opportunity to complete the adjustment of its establishment plan by recruiting the corresponding number of successful candidates as officials. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed the view over the past few years, most recently on 5 may 2010, that olaf should gradually move towards full and unfettered institutional independence, to ensure that its activities are not restricted, either intentionally or unintentionally, by its staff and management being part of the structure of the european commission.
in writing. − the report is used to promote further harmonisation of tax laws and price fluctuations in postal and financial services at eu level. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. - air transport is becoming more and more intensive and dense. this has also led to an increase in the number of accidents and incidents related to aviation safety. it is absolutely desirable that such incidents be fully and rapidly investigated within the eu. the role of the relatives of victims, who have often been left alone in their despair, must also be borne in mind. i am voting in favour of this report because it is essential that all the member states of the european union cooperate effectively in the field of aviation security and intelligence.
in writing. − the creation of a network of national investigation bodies should make it possible in the future to reduce the disparities in investigation capacities in the eu. the aim is to improve the quality of investigations and to establish a legal framework for cooperation between national civil aviation safety investigation bodies. these planned measures are likely to contribute to improving aviation safety. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − it is important that the eu achieves a degree of independence from gas supplies from third countries, so cooperation within the union is important where it makes sense. on the other hand, the basic powers of energy policy should remain in national hands, and the report goes too far in some respects. i therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. - the fight against illegal immigration should be a matter of course for each state and not a means of pressure. readmission agreements are essential to clarify the reception arrangements in the event of a refusal of an asylum application. experience has shown that there is a delay of years, and that delay is exploited by illegal immigrants to escape. the eu must combat the abuse of asylum and pseudo-asylum throughout the eu and strengthen the frontex border agency. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not worsened. i support the agreement with pakistan as a further step towards curbing the increasingly uncontrollable flows of economic refugees and their false dreams of paradise.
in writing. − readmission agreements with third countries are an important tool in the fight against illegal immigration to the european union and serve the security of the union. pakistan is an important country of origin and transit for migrants who do not or no longer fulfil the conditions for entry into, presence in or residence in the eu. the agreement aims to improve cooperation between the authorities of the requested and the requesting states in order to facilitate the process of readmission more quickly and efficiently. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - turkey is an important trading partner of the european union. in direct comparison, turkey is the seventh largest importer and the fifth largest exporter of goods with the eu-27. in 2009, the total trade volume was close to eur 80 billion. turkey considers the european union to be its strongest trading partner, both in terms of imports and exports, and to be well ahead of countries such as russia, china and the usa. the intact economic and trade relations must be continued and further developed. the creation of the common customs union in 1996 was an important step in this direction. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods between the european community and turkey. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. i very clearly support the own-initiative report by mr kazak, which identifies the problem areas in trade relations with turkey and calls for their elimination.
in writing. - in principle, the question of eu membership cannot arise at all, given the divergent cultural and religious attitudes which already threaten to jeopardise social peace in the union. because de facto, eu membership is not only about economic relations, but also politics, culture and precisely those religious and socio-political attitudes that are incompatible with western, christian europe are being brought into the eu. with over 1.3 billion euros in eu grants received by turkey between 1996 and 2005 alone, it must be easy to hold talks on a strategic partnership. the idea of a more functional customs union to improve trade relations with turkey is obsolete as long as the turkish government has not fulfilled its previous commitments in this respect with regard to cyprus. in the vote today i voted against it.
in writing. - in recent months, the visa policy of eu member states has been a major topic for turkish businessmen. the istanbul chamber of commerce (ito), after reaching visa facilitation for business travellers with france, also signed an agreement with italy in february this year. after that, business travellers will be issued a multiple-entry schengen visa valid for 5 years, provided they can produce a letter of reference from the ito. the visa allows entry to all schengen countries! germany was subsequently criticised for its restrictive visa policy. you're wrong! the eu should take seriously germany's doubts about such visa liberalisation! germany is the country with the highest number of turkish migrants in the eu. the risk of the so-called "business visa" leading through the back door to permanent settlement is high! the turkish chamber of commerce should not be the one to decide on the individual case whether or not to grant a visa in the context of business relations, but the country of entry. the problem is that the liberal visa policies of france and italy have also opened the door to the rest of the schengen area. this is a serious interference with state sovereignty! the commission should take this problem into account when developing trade relations with turkey.
in writing. the report proposes that the eu's accession negotiations should start with the creation of a customs union with turkey. the customs union is to be extended to cover agriculture, services and public procurement. the fact is that the negotiations which are proceeding are not only about economic relations but also about politics, culture and divergent religious and socio-political attitudes which are incompatible with a western, christian europe. turkey has been receiving billions in pre-accession aid for years, which is more than enough to foster a strategic and trade partnership. the progress of the customs union with turkey must be accompanied by progress on the cyprus question, human rights and democracy, and freedom of religion and expression. turkey is still a long way from that. i therefore voted against the report, which is another step towards turkey's creeping future full membership of the eu.
in writing. − 2010 is the year of biodiversity. the report by mrs esther de lange is a positive contribution to the conservation of biodiversity. i support this forward-looking report because i am convinced that initiatives to conserve biodiversity are essential to avoid future conflicts. a healthy environment, biodiversity, the protection of fertile soils and clean waters are the basic prerequisites for ensuring the food supply of the world's population for future generations. but biodiversity is unthinkable without farmers. agriculture is already making a major contribution to environmental and climate protection, for example by storing co2 in the soil or by using natural methods. in order to maintain this agricultural achievement in the general sense, sufficient recognition and support will be needed in the future. in the context of the increasing sealing of arable land for roads, buildings and industrial installations, measures are needed to safeguard a pan-european agriculture.
in writing. − the increasing frequency of extreme weather events is also leading to serious natural disasters within the eu, which are particularly hard on rural populations. it is the responsibility of the member states to devote more attention to disaster relief and prevention. the main objective is to ensure that those affected receive rapid assistance, including financial assistance, in their time of need. the commission's proposal is to establish a european network of experts in the field of health and safety at work. i shall abstain because i think the report is too broad and does not describe any actual measures.
in writing. − the european union is called upon to take the lead in the global fight against poverty and hunger, as some 1.4 billion people are affected by extreme poverty. there are many reasons for this. the sad fact is that developing countries are constrained by political conditions, democratic and rule of law deficits and geographical disadvantages in their ability to seize opportunities themselves. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a very good one. the present report stresses the importance for developing countries of expanding their productive sectors and reducing excessive bureaucracy and corruption, promoting education, implementing international social and production standards and providing adequate financing opportunities for micro-enterprises, especially in agriculture. food security is an existential requirement for a country and its people, and the degree of self-sufficiency increases independence and reduces the potential for conflict. the basic prerequisite for this is the maintenance and promotion of agricultural production and the protection of soil and water.
in writing. the report of the development committee on poverty reduction and job creation in developing countries takes a correct approach. we in the western industrialized countries must take measures to enable the weaker countries to provide for themselves and to build up a strong economy of their own. the ability to produce food for its own population plays a vital role. it must also be possible for these countries to diversify their economies so that they are not dependent on imports alone. this is particularly true of small and mediumsized enterprises, which create new jobs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the excessive use of subsidies. tax havens must also be closed. finally, despite the many positive proposals, i abstained because they do not seem to be binding on the allocation of development aid. but declarations of intent alone will not help. this will continue to see a lot of money going down dark channels.
the commission has already done so. i would also like to thank linda mcavan and the other shadow rapporteurs who have worked on this report. but first, let me make an appeal to patients and to the european health system. we should and must take the time to engage with patients when we prescribe medicines, so that they really know what they are taking, that they are informed about possible adverse drug reactions, and on the other hand to demand that patients are honest with their doctor or the person who prescribes them. because only then can what we're asking for here actually work, which is that drugs be as safe as possible. i very much welcome this paper, because it is another step towards the recording of adverse reactions throughout europe in such a way that both medical personnel and the pharmaceutical industry can identify and respond to these reactions as quickly as possible. we already have very good systems in place in the individual member states, and the next step is to unify and consolidate these good systems. here, too, the old adage holds true: the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. i would be glad if this directive were adopted by an absolute, large majority in the plenary.
in writing. easy access to factual and independent background information on medicines is essential for patients and also plays an important role in research into side effects and in the market safety of prescription medicines. the new pharmacovigilance directive and regulation significantly improve transparency and access to such information. background information and explanations of possible side effects are now being collected from the european medicines agency across europe. storing and processing this data and creating web portals to facilitate access to it significantly improves the patient's ability to learn about medicines and their side effects. in particular, when travelling, european citizens are not dependent on any websites, but can obtain objective guidance in their own language when needed. the information must be certified by the relevant licensing authorities in order to guarantee independence and objectivity. on the other hand, it guarantees the freedom of information. the new drug-facts box identifies new active substances that have been authorised for the first time. all these measures increase transparency and make it easier for patients to obtain information in the pharmaceutical sector in a clear and straightforward manner.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs klaß, and also mrs sartori very warmly on the fact that they have worked so well together, also with the shadow rapporteurs, that we now have a package which i believe is politically acceptable to all the groups. it is important to remember that biocides are not an end in themselves, but serve many functions in our modern society. christa klaß has given some examples here. the reason for this is that the consumer's need for food safety and better health is being met. so there are many applications, and at the same time we have a very fragmented market of producers. i should now like to refer in particular to this situation for producers and also to the fact that the old directive was not able to meet these concerns, either in terms of improved health for consumers or a functioning internal market for producers. one of the main problems was that we don't have a community authorisation for such biocides. and it is important to point out that we need this community authorisation for as many groups of biocides as possible, otherwise it will be a dead letter. i would like to defend in particular the compromise on article 33, which has made it possible for all the political groups to agree that we have a phase-in from the old to the new regulation, while at the same time still allowing member states to provide for exceptions for particularly dangerous substances. i therefore believe that the compromise package is very well drawn up and i would ask all members to vote in favour of it.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the 2011 budget is in the fog. two points seem to me to be of importance: on the one hand, the lisbon treaty provides that the union shall be provided with the necessary means to enable it to exercise the powers conferred on it and to achieve the objectives it has set itself. this is required by article 311 tfeu. this ensures that the annual budgetary procedure proceeds smoothly. on the other hand, given the current economic situation, it is necessary to set priorities and therefore to take all the necessary measures to ensure that the adoption of the multiannual financial framework actually works. i would like to emphasize one more thing in the current economic climate: i do not understand the idea of using the red pen in education, lifelong learning and social action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the resulting savings could then be used, for example, for growth and employment. finally, i would like to suggest a possible principle: a wide-ranging transparency of the expenditure of european funds by the national states is essential to enable us - the european parliament and the commission - to exercise the closest possible control and influence. this could also help us to achieve the necessary efficiency.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the financial framework is a challenge in times of crisis. where do you need to show more energy, more focus, more commitment? where do we need to save, where do we need to rationalize, where do we need to reform the workforce? one of the key issues is to adapt our tasks at european level to the needs of each country. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. we are back to a hopefully good start, a good climb to new strengths. but here the european union has a very special responsibility. if we see that the cip programme is to be cut by 60% for the 2011 budget, that there are cuts in research, namely where there is more to gain from international competition in the short term, in favour of projects which may not be economically successful for another 30 or 50 years, then we need to think about where we need to rationalise, how we can improve management and, above all, where we can react more quickly and more quickly. time has moved fast, and that is why it is very important for the administration to keep up with it.
in writing. the european parliament takes its democratic control seriously and in the report calls on the council and the commission to carry out a comprehensive review of the multiannual financial framework. i support all the recommendations in this report which lead to greater planning and efficiency in the use of eu funds. it is all too common for the commission to come up with new proposals unexpectedly to use unused funds. the french iter project is just one example of how money - in this case from the agricultural pot - is already being used up in advance for other areas. agricultural funds not collected or intended for agricultural emergencies should not simply be used for other areas. it is particularly important to build up reserves in the agricultural sector. flexibility is important, but at least within the policy area. the use of reserves should be defined in advance and in any case be made available to the department responsible.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the aid to greece was sold to us as an exception to the bailout ban and based on article 136. however, article 136 does not justify the granting of credit to greece, since it allows only measures in accordance with the relevant provisions of the treaties. the eu treaty not only does not provide for such measures, but explicitly prohibits them. the provision does not therefore authorize any further action and this conclusion was reached, among others, by the centre for european policy, or cep for short, in its recent opinion. the eurozone finance ministers decided to help greece with aid at an average interest rate of 5%, but cep scientists show that loans at a politically determined interest rate below market conditions constitute an illegal subsidy. the aid to greece was therefore extremely controversial, if not inadmissible, from a legal point of view. and as regards the actual effects, i am afraid that the german economist joachim starbatty, whose assessment i would like to share with you, commissioner, is unfortunately right when he says that if the euro countries continue to pay for the debts of other members, the euro will no longer exist in ten years' time. now is the time to heal the sick, not to put on ointment. euro countries that are no longer able to service their debts must become competitive again by leaving the monetary union. otherwise i will not give the euro a chance.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. a package of measures is now being put in place to safeguard the financial stability of the euro area. the question i have in mind in connection with this line is where, if a member state makes such a request against expectations, the money is really going to come from. commissioner, you speak of precaution. i would like to ask the commission, and i am asking it, to adopt such a deterrent measure so that the member states really do everything possible to avoid this situation.
women are often afraid to reveal abuses in their private lives. it is well known that this problem is particularly acute in islamic countries such as turkey. amnesty international estimates that between one third and 50 per cent of all women in this country experience physical violence in their families. the question is: when this study was drawn up, was it intended to look beyond the borders of the eu and, in this context, was the problem of domestic violence in turkey also considered?
the commission has already done so. of course, it is great that this is being done in a transparent way, but it is better that the lack of transparency is being tackled, because without transparency there is no healthy competition and without healthy competition there are no satisfied customers. my question is this: some natural gas transmission system operators refuse to make their maximum capacity available in order to make it more difficult for other competitors to enter the market. will the commission take action here, and in what form can you envisage it?
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. what international instruments are at our disposal to ensure that competition rules and licensing procedures are applied worldwide, with equal opportunities for all, but also with the same risks and costs? we find that in many permitting procedures we are simply no longer able to create the necessary structures. so it is about efficient, fast, but also orderly and thorough approval procedures, and therefore also about the time to implement projects. it's very important.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the research budget has been the subject of intense debate during this period with the iter project. the cuts in the seventh research framework programme and the cip programme are currently being discussed very intensely and parliament is opposed to cuts in this area in all the political groups. can you imagine a new financial framework for iter that is also being renegotiated at international level?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. around 18% of the total population of the union is located in mountain regions. the common focus on agriculture and forestry and, of course, tourism is characteristic. the personal labour input of the miners is high, the yields are relatively low. however, they make a very important contribution to the conservation of the alpine region and thus to sustainability. the alpine region should not be reduced to a desolate steppe, but should remain a well-kept cultural landscape. eu funding must take account of the topographical, climatic and cultural characteristics of mountain areas. a single grid from gibraltar to the north cape is therefore not useful. what do we need? also after 2013, an area premium, a livestock premium to support farmers for species-appropriate farming. we need increased investment support, which also takes account of the higher costs compared to cutting, and the labelling, protection and certification of high-quality food from the alpine region. the eu must therefore now set the course to ensure that mountain farming and hence the entire alpine region can continue to prosper well beyond 2013.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as an austrian, i am particularly concerned about the situation of the inhabitants of the mountain regions in the course of this report. agriculture is the main economic activity in these regions, as stated in the declaration. statistically speaking, 13 farmers leave their farm in austria every day. the small farms are therefore particularly affected. in total, we have only half as many farms today as in 1950. to make matters worse, the farmers in the mountains are not nearly as efficient as the farms in the valleys. their products are hardly competitive on the market because of the high transport costs associated with their location. the commission has already the life of farmers is shaped by the joint lives and work of several generations. this is a unique feature in our present social development situation which must be preserved.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have a new legal basis with the lisbon treaty and, in particular, article 174 gives us the task of promoting territorial cohesion. this means, in particular for regional policy and specifically for the regional commissioner, that he is concerned with this policy area and also with the areas with topographical particularities such as mountain regions or island regions. we must therefore have a specific policy for this group, and this must not only mean, as mr zeller has said, that we have many programmes and that we allocate specific funds to them, but it must also mean that we allow the necessary flexibility as regards european programmes. this is linked to the indicators to be produced, but above all to the policies we want to promote in particular. but it is not only the task of commissioner hahn to pursue a proper policy here, because mountain areas policy is a matter for all european policies. the agricultural policy has already been mentioned. here too, the specific characteristics of mountain areas must be promoted or compensated for by specific measures. this is in transport policy. i myself come from a country where we face particular challenges and problems in connection with international freight transport. we are trying to achieve the necessary exceptions in the eurovignette directive. the finnish colleague first mentioned the postal directive. if he had read them carefully, he would have noticed that we very well incorporated solutions to these problem areas in the last legislature. it will therefore be up to commissioner hahn, in particular, as the representative of the regions, to ensure that these specific features are reflected in all the policies of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would first like to address a word to the commission. as one who, for the group of the european people's party, has criticised the commission, commission president barroso and mrs reding in their soft stance on the roma issue, i would like to say that i am grateful for the clear stance that was then adopted. some words may not always have been weighed in the balances of gold. in the anger and anger of being misled, mrs reding may have been wrong in her choice of words at times. but we fully support the content of the commission's activity. i would like to ask mr van rompuy three questions. i appreciate your goodwill, but there are three things i'm not clear on. first, you said you could speak to the chinese prime minister on behalf of 27 countries. but what are you going to tell him? what is the common line with china? i have not been able to find that out from the minutes. secondly, you said you would be working on foreign policy strategies. they have not even mentioned the commission in this context, and they have not mentioned parliament at all. but on foreign policy strategies, especially trade policy strategies, you also need this parliament! will you involve parliament in the development of foreign policy strategies and how will you do so? thirdly, following what count lambsdorff has said, i agree with him: we cannot be satisfied with what the un has decided. we cannot be the payers again, but we cannot speak and speak before the un. what went wrong and what will you do - also as council and with the heads of government - to ensure that we finally have the right to speak and to stand before the united nations as the european union?
in writing. unfortunately, the recent council meeting leaves many concrete steps open. the economic and monetary union must be strengthened and the necessary lessons drawn from the economic crisis - the stability pact must be strictly implemented and the financial transaction tax precisely defined, but this cannot be carried out on the backs of our citizens. the new european external action service could be a major achievement for the union if the basic idea behind its incorporation in the treaties can be implemented. the synergies that exist must be sought, found and exploited. so that europe can act as a unit in the world - which would certainly also significantly strengthen the eu's influence in the world. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european environment agency. violations of human rights must not be tolerated in the eu. the dignity of the human person must be preserved - populism in any form inevitably leads to nationalism and this is in no way conducive to the european idea.
in writing. - the report by mr böge clearly recommends that, in the interests of planning, the financial design of eu projects should not be made dependent on unused budgetary resources. funds not collected in one department or earmarked for emergencies should not simply be used for other areas, as is often the case in the agricultural sector. the eu's agricultural budget developments must not lead to an indirect budget cut for 2010. i therefore support the call for the creation of reserves in the context of the review of the multiannual financial framework. the use of reserves should also be defined in advance and not be shifted to other policies.
in writing. - in this report, mr böge critically examines the various problems facing the current multiannual financial framework, and refers specifically to the framework conditions laid down in articles 311 and 312 of the tfeu. in the current economic climate, efforts must be directed towards a possible re-definition of priorities within the budget, taking into account the european added value of the eu budget.
in writing. - the aid to greece was sold to us as an exception to the bailout ban and based on article 136. however, article 136 does not justify the granting of credit to greece, since it allows only measures in accordance with the relevant provisions of the treaties. the eu treaty not only does not provide for such measures, but explicitly prohibits them. the provision does not therefore authorize any further measures. the eurozone finance ministers decided to help greece with aid at an average interest rate of 5%, meaning that loans were granted at a politically determined interest rate below market conditions and thus constituted an illegal subsidy. the aid to greece was therefore extremely controversial, if not inadmissible, from a legal point of view. as for the actual impact, i fear that if the euro countries continue to pay for the debts of other members, the euro will no longer exist in ten years. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - i voted against the introduction of this new budget line because this line was adopted by the council and the commission as part of the package of measures to safeguard the financial stability of the euro area, without any involvement of the european parliament in the debate, on the basis of the so-called emergency paragraphs. i am not in a position to be responsible for the creation of this budget line until it is clear where this money is to come from, even if it is only in the event that a member state makes such a request.
in writing. - the vat refund is of major financial importance, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. the fear is that a breakdown in the computer system could jeopardise the right of taxpayers to deduct input tax. an extension of the deadline from september 2010 to march 2011 as requested by the rapporteur would therefore be desirable. i voted in favour of the report because it clearly points out the consequences of late payment and its economic impact.
in writing. the report contains improvements in the electronic vat refund procedure. the commission has also decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 108 (2) of the treaty in respect of the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − public health is a key policy concern and should remain so. pharmaceutical companies launch a large number of new life- and health-enhancing drugs into the market each year. according to the rapporteur, an estimated 197 000 people die each year from adverse drug reactions (adrs) to such medicines. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. the aim is to enable patients themselves to report, not only to the pharmaceutical company but also to government agencies, without any complications. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the new rules are sufficient to ensure the safety of patients.
in writing. − pharmacovigilance is the system for monitoring the safety of medicines after they have been authorised. in order to ensure the best possible protection of patients, data on adverse drug reactions (aeds) should be collected rapidly and unbureaucratically across the eu. this is the only way to act quickly and to assess follow-up. in addition, it would be of enormous benefit to patients to be able to view uaws centrally. i voted in favour of the report because it aims to achieve a rapid and unbureaucratic approach to pharmacovigilance.
in writing. − pharmacovigilance is the post-authorisation safety control of medicinal products and thus plays an important role in public health. if side effects are rare or occur only after long-term use or only in combination with other medicinal products, they may be missed in clinical trials. in the eu, for example, around 197 000 deaths occur each year as a result of adverse drug reactions (adrs). a system of reporting undesirable effects and detecting patterns of effects are therefore important components of an efficient health policy. increased cooperation in pharmacovigilance systems at eu level will expand the database of notified maas, which in turn will help to detect rare patterns of action more quickly and avoid duplication of work in investigating the same maa in different member states. this may help to speed up the withdrawal of unsafe medicines from the market. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − biocides are designed to protect against pests, insects and bacteria and are used in everyday life and in agriculture. in order to increase the safety of use of biocidal products and to provide control, it is logical that these substances should be subject to the same tests and standards throughout the eu. as a farmer representative in the european parliament, i am committed to the responsible use of biocides. the present proposal provides a good basis for a uniform system in the eu. in the interests of fair competition, i am in favour of any proposed new biocidal regulation being extended to imports from third countries. but agriculture should continue to play its role in producing safe food and feed at reasonable costs. the more specifically the proposals which have a direct impact on production and production costs must be evaluated. the use of appropriate control measures against threatening pests must not be made more difficult or costly in an uneconomical way. in any case, a new regulation must meet both the wishes of consumers and the demands of producers.
in writing. - the financial crisis has indeed revealed a wide range of weaknesses in the financial sector. in the sensitive area of insurance, reinsurance and occupational pensions, it is particularly important to ensure that risky financial products and card-house designs are not used. for example, one online insurer recently went bankrupt, leaving customers with nothing to lose in the event of a loss. waves of complaints also revealed serious shortcomings in the advice, where clients were being encouraged to take risky financial packages as a safe investment for retirement. if we are to take the supervisory obligation seriously, we will have to solve the problems that have arisen in the eu in this area and create a level playing field. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - in times of crossborder banking and insurance, purely national control of these companies is not enough, as the current economic and financial crisis has made clear. the fact that the member states retain the power of last resort in the event of serious budgetary problems is nevertheless to be welcomed. the report in question goes too far in the direction of european economic governance, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. - in times of crossborder banking and insurance, purely national control of these companies is not enough, as the current economic and financial crisis has made clear. the fact that the member states retain the power of last resort in the event of serious budgetary problems is nevertheless to be welcomed. the report in question goes too far in the direction of european economic governance, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on macro-financial supervision and the establishment of a european systemic risk board, as this is an essential part of the new financial market architecture in the eu and the package represents a major step towards financial market regulation. as the author of the legal affairs committee's opinion on the european systemic risk board, i would have liked more and stronger powers of intervention for the board, but i regard the creation of the systemic risk board as a success. in the future, further competences should be transferred to the european supervisory authorities. macro-financial supervision is only meaningful at the supranational level, 27 individual supervisory authorities have difficulty in assessing global financial market risks.
in writing. - in times of crossborder banking and insurance, purely national control of these companies is not enough, as the current economic and financial crisis has made clear. the fact that the member states retain the power of last resort in the event of serious budgetary problems is nevertheless to be welcomed. the report in question goes too far in the direction of european economic governance, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. - in times of crossborder banking and insurance, purely national control of these companies is not enough, as the current economic and financial crisis has made clear. the fact that the member states retain the power of last resort in the event of serious budgetary problems is nevertheless to be welcomed. the report in question goes too far in the direction of european economic governance, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. - in times of crossborder markets, purely national control of these companies is not enough, as the current economic and financial crisis makes clear. the fact that the member states retain the power of last resort in the event of serious budgetary problems is nevertheless to be welcomed. the report in question goes too far in the direction of european economic governance, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gallo report, which clearly advocates the protection of intellectual property rights. these are often threatened or ignored. it is not just industry that is affected, but also the creative industries, sports, and the music industry. the commission also notes that the unauthorised uploading of copyrighted material on the internet is a serious problem. in particular, as there are more and more cases of cross-border infringements of intellectual property rights, a european legal framework needs to be created to address them. in doing so, the report ensures that any measures to enforce intellectual property rights must be necessary, proportionate and appropriate to a democratic society. this was particularly important to me. this ensures that copyright is better protected and that no unnecessary restrictions are imposed on legitimate private consumers.
in writing. i voted against the report by mrs gallo for the following reasons: i think the report is unbalanced and uneducated. my group has therefore also drawn up a counter-resolution. it brings a more balanced and more balanced approach to the copyright debate. i think the rigorous criminalisation of internet users - in the case of music downloads, it is mainly children and young people who are affected - is a real danger to me. one of the main aspects missing from mrs gallo's report is the distinction between non-commercial filesharing and commercial copyright leasing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. i believe it is necessary to break away from the old-fashioned legal thinking and find a balance between knowledge justice and fair remuneration for achievements in the fields of music, literature and film. the socialist resolution would follow this approach - but not the epp report.
in writing. - my rejection of the report must not be misunderstood as a rejection of a legislative initiative to protect intellectual property. i am simply not satisfied with the way in which the problems in this area of law have been dealt with. effective action against infringements of intellectual property rights is necessary and must be taken. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the ordinary citizen must not be lumped in with organised crime - that is inappropriate and disproportionate.
in writing. − various papers have consistently stressed that rural and outermost regions, and in this case mountain regions, islands and sparsely populated areas, need a separate strategy or even support. at the same time, however, a number of measures are being taken to accelerate the withdrawal of these areas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of life in the regions concerned, and has recently introduced a new system of social security for the elderly. if we do not want to see a deserted and desolated area, it is not enough to promote these areas separately, for example in the context of landscape conservation, but geographical and economic weaknesses must be balanced in a sustainable way. the commission's proposal is therefore a good one.
in writing. − the mountain regions are spread throughout the eu, and the focus on agriculture and forestry is characteristic of the mountain regions and in particular the alpine area. problems include an increasingly ageing population, difficulties in infrastructure and accessibility and provision of services. the miners are particularly hard pressed, with high costs and relatively low returns. however, they make a very important contribution to landscape conservation, sustainable management, organic food production and alpine tourism. this must be properly recognised and the specific problems of mountain regions addressed. the eu must set the course to secure the future of mountain farming and hence the entire alpine region. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. we must say this very clearly as a parliament, but of course especially for my group: no to these 14 dollar entry fees, no to unjustified measures by the americans at the expense of the europeans and no to this unilateral burden on european-american relations. we cannot be satisfied with the reports we have heard. i must say quite frankly that regret is not enough. the fact that it is discriminatory is not enough. this morning president van rompuy himself said that one of the basic principles for cooperation between partners is reciprocity. i do not want to demand that the americans be treated the same way they treat us. but it must be made clear that we need a clear european response here, which we must also demand in the form of concrete action from the commission and the council. i would ask you to make more specific proposals, including discussions with parliament, on how you intend to proceed in this matter. americans need to realize that we are serious about this issue, as we are about other issues, that we want to be treated as partners and not as someone who has to simply respond to what the other person says.
mr president, commissioner, representative of the council! the us$14 entry fee is counterproductive to transatlantic relations and should be rejected for many reasons. she's making it more expensive to get in. she discriminated. she's just not friendly. what's particularly bad is that the only way to pay for the cost is by credit card on the u.s. department of homeland security website. what do people do when they don't have a credit card? can only credit card holders enter the united states? i, like so many speakers before me, have mixed feelings about the credit card details being shared by eu citizens. this is a subject which is of great interest to european citizens. they expect the european commission and the council to be the backbone of this. i would like to ask you to act with european confidence and, if possible, to apply the principle of reciprocity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you're a good president, we know that. but i would have asked you to stick to the schedule. i have a group of visitors, but i'd like to check in with catch the eye. if you give mr posselt, mr brok and mr van nistelrooij five minutes to speak, i have no chance. perhaps you could do that later on to catch the eye, because every member has a specific timetable and you have to plan your day.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fact that some of the balkan countries are now beginning to doubt more or less openly their own prospects of accession is, in my view, a sign of the weaknesses of the european neighbourhood policy. the countries of the western balkans with a european perspective and those with which accession negotiations are already under way are not included in this neighbourhood policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we know that. this is particularly important in view of the hasty enlargement to include bulgaria and romania. but peace at europe's doorstep is undoubtedly more important to the eu than peace in distant afghanistan. the european union must not be allowed to become a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the reality of the situation. in addition to peace efforts in the balkans, it is important to improve relations with russia, another country not included in the european neighbourhood strategy, although it is an important strategic partner for europe not only in terms of energy supply. we must work on these relations now, before the next gas dispute or competition between nabucco and southstream can lead, at worst, to a hardening of the fronts. the dependence on russian gas will continue for a long time. nabucco and supplies from other countries can only replace one dependence with another. and that would be bad, in my opinion. the creation of free trade zones as a preparation for the acquis cannot be allowed to become a pre-accession automatic. in this sense, i think that the accession negotiations with turkey, which is not a european country and whose islamization is likely to progress after the recent constitutional reform, should finally be stopped.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. i would like to point out that the socialist and democratic group is very much interested in constructive relations with the people's republic of china. i am disappointed in your answer today, because it was not very concrete. you have actually shown the actual situation again and also hid a little behind the fact that it is difficult. but that cannot be an excuse when other countries and - we have just heard the example - the united states have already come up with very clear solutions here. a positive trade balance with china - and i wish that for all of us - cannot be an excuse for us to be blind to such serious human rights violations. i think it is in the interests of china and also of the representatives of the people's republic of china that they are certainly very keen to combat the very difficult situation in china - a boom, economic growth on the coasts and in the big cities, poverty in rural areas, an absolute imbalance in the social fabric in china. but that cannot be an excuse for us not to make every effort to prevent the importation of these goods into europe, whether they are imported consciously or unconsciously. there are a lot of measures, there is the possibility of telling our european companies what products they are. the names of these cloak companies that source from laogai warehouses are known, the suppliers are known. it is not much use if we in europe have wonderful slogans in most companies promising that human rights will be respected if we do not support them as a whole, that they can also live up to this promise. i also want to see myself as a representative of consumers who want to be sure when they buy products of chinese origin, not to buy products from forced labour. we already have a very high awareness of products that come from child labor. there are many measures that have been taken. i expect the commission to make concrete proposals such as quality labels, i expect embargoes on products proven to be from these productions and i hope to continue a constructive and effective dialogue with china. i also see the chinese government's willingness to continue this dialogue. china is also interested in improving the human rights situation. let us try to achieve this through dialogue, but let us not close our eyes because trade relations are so important simply to human rights violations.
mr president, thank you very much. commissioner, you said that this is a very sensitive issue in relations with china. i know. but i also believe that between partners who do business together, who build a partnership together on a global scale, there is a law of the need to not only emphasize one's own values in negotiations, but also to draw consequences from them. otherwise one of the negotiating partners could be accused of hypocrisy if, on the one hand, one criticises the existence of these stocks, which are to be condemned - i think we agree on this - but then, on the other hand, one willingly allows these products on its market. it is a matter of european credibility that we are not only talking but also acting here. and for that, i think there's more respect than rejection from china. because a negotiator whose hypocrisy is so obvious is taken much less seriously than someone who stands by his values - even to the point of action.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to begin by thanking commissioner oettinger for taking the lead and reacting immediately when the oil disaster occurred. we must of course consider the different starting points which exist in the united states and also in europe. i believe that we in europe also need to act, and that a thorough analysis of the actual situation in europe, both factual and legal, is necessary in order to be able to make appropriate proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries agreements are respected. and i think that we must look carefully at where the community can act as a community and improve the situation by means of legal proposals. the starting point for all of us must be to create the highest safety standards for people, for the environment, so that such disasters can be prevented in the first place. however, i would say that it is important that we continue to explore for oil and gas in europe as a whole in order to diversify our energy sources. we should keep that in mind. but as i said, safety is of the utmost importance. i see three areas of action. firstly, where do we need to adapt the eu legal situation? i am thinking of the seveso ii directive, the environmental liability directive and the third maritime safety package. there are certainly areas of action which we should be addressing on the commission's part and on which we are awaiting proposals. secondly, the financial framework. i believe that insurance solutions would provide the appropriate security to be able to create financial compensation after disasters. a third area is eu civil protection. is it really necessary for each member state to have the full capacity it needs to cope with such a disaster, or could we not find and strengthen cooperation at eu level to relieve the member states of some of the burden?
i have to say, madam president, if there is one lesson we have learned from the oil crisis, it is that in times of high oil prices, it pays to develop hard-to-reach oil fields and to drill in the most adverse conditions, such as at ever greater depths. assuming that the experts are right in their prediction of a massive increase in oil prices, it is likely that even riskier oil exploration will be undertaken in the foreseeable future. although it would have been appropriate, in accordance with international conventions, to strengthen safety measures for oil production beyond 200 m depth following the oil disaster in the gulf of mexico, the north-east atlantic coastal states have not been able to reach an agreement. the depth of the affected area and the risks are quite comparable to those in the gulf of mexico. the commission has already taken steps to improve safety standards and to safeguard financial liability. this is all the more so since the commission is apparently planning a carbon pipeline network and wants to sell emissions from european power stations to the north sea oil industry. we have not even got the disposal of nuclear waste under control, although this technology has been used for decades, and now suddenly dangerous greenhouse gases are to be dumped into the north sea. so i think it is high time that we started thinking about safety regulations.
i have to say, madam president, the deepwater horizon disaster is something that we can't all undo. all necessary steps must therefore be taken to ensure that such an environmental disaster never occurs in eu waters. i think that three points are absolutely essential: first, to take the greatest precaution, that is to take account of all the risks of offshore drilling. secondly, to ensure the highest safety standards and to create binding eu minimum safety standards, and thirdly, to guarantee the highest environmental protection standards. i think it is of the utmost importance to examine the ability to respond to accidents and to create a common european and hopefully also a worldwide system to prevent such environmental disasters.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a few days ago, i sat down with a group of journalists, and we talked about the issues that are particularly close to my heart this fall. and one of them is, quite rightly, biodiversity. as you know, the conference on biodiversity is coming up in nagoya, and i have the honour and pleasure of being a member of the parliamentary delegation and co-author of the resolution to be voted on in nagoya to promote biodiversity. so i sat down with the journalists, and they asked me why we had the luxury of, for example, saving the beaver. in my home country of lower austria, an endangered species has been saved and has taken up a lot of habitat, which has not really been conducive to the love of the farmers and the foresters for the beaver. while the european union and many authorities in the member states are working very intensively and with the commitment and support of ngos to protect species, this conversation once again showed that for many people, protecting and preserving biodiversity is a kind of luxury. people wonder whether we in the eu have no other concerns than to save a few threatened orchid species or animal species. it doesn't matter whether you're hearing that there are 500 different animals in a zoo or 499 different animals. so for the people, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of conservation and biodiversity is hardly a priority. and let 's face it . the issue of biodiversity is also far from being as high on the political agenda as issues such as economic growth or security. but it should be, because we're missing the point. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the issue of conservation - and don't get me wrong - is a matter of love for fauna and flora. but it is above all a question of security, a question of labour market policy, a question of migration policy. because what is often forgotten in the discussion of biodiversity is the role of animals and plants in our ecosystem. they are nature's so-called service providers, the ones who keep our ecosystems running. thanks to the many different species and their interactions, coasts remain firm, avalanches do not subside, and waters clean themselves. with vital goods and services such as food supply, carbon sequestration and water regulation forming the basis for economic prosperity, social well-being and quality of life, it is an essential element of sustainable development. when species die out, the natural balance is upset, and a dangerous domino effect is set in motion. the services of animals and plants would have to be replaced at a high cost. different regions and habitats could gradually become uninhabitable and unusable. this may result in these habitats no longer being able to provide the valuable goods and services of the ecosystem. but not only that. the other possible consequences, such as unemployment, insecurity or even emigration, would be a shock to us all. the protection of species is thus clearly a cross-cutting issue. the committee on development and cooperation has also stressed this point, and it has been very involved in drawing up the european parliament's position. i would like to mention a few more figures: scientists estimate that replacing natural services and addressing their consequences, such as unemployment and migration, would cost 7% of global gross domestic product. it is not surprising that the figures are different. according to the latest study by the european commission, 25% of european animal species are threatened with extinction. the same study also says that the ecosystems of europe's coasts are being destroyed more and more. some regions with high biodiversity are also declining. on the other hand, artificial land, such as industrial areas, housing estates and transport infrastructure, has increased by 8% since 1990. ladies and gentlemen, as you know, there is not always agreement among the actors who will be negotiating in nagoya on what is to be achieved at the conference. developed countries want strong goals, ngos want ambitious goals, and the economy, not surprisingly, is content with realistic goals. i believe that the eu must set the bar high in nagoya and, as in europe, ensure that the business community is more involved, especially those sectors and industries which use biological resources to a particularly large extent. the eu can decide whether it wants to be a good example or a bad example. ladies and gentlemen, this year is the year of biodiversity, it is already october, and this news has not yet reached many europeans. let us work together to ensure that biodiversity is given the value it deserves and needs to provide its ecological services in the future. let me try another oft-quoted native american proverb: only when the last tree is cut down, the last river poisoned, the last fish caught, will you realize that you can't eat money.
i have to say, madam president, let me start with a detail. the commissioner potočnik, whom i greatly respect, calls figures in dollars, although he then converts them into euros. colleague deva also calls dollar numbers. i don't have the details, but it actually shows us that the debate about biodiversity has obviously not arrived in europe yet. it is clear that we are not yet able to form our own opinion here in europe, and i think it would be good if we took this debate seriously in the sense that we also translate into numbers, we have a total elitist debate here, which is, i think, detached from what is really happening at home with our citizens. and unless we can bring this debate home to the house, i think we are also doomed to lose political weight here. i think the communication strategy we should be using is simply to bring the issue to the people, as i said, and then, with this knowledge of how people react, to set our concrete goals. the commissioner has set very specific objectives. i hope he will implement it there in nagoya and i hope the community will speak with one voice. that is always the great challenge in these international conferences. i also believe that money alone is not enough. many colleagues are calling for more money. that may be one way, but it's not enough if we're going to succeed here. secondly, as i said, change the communication strategy, and thirdly, improve the data we have. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and you know, my favorite subject is water. for example, when we start the new fisheries policy, we have a great need to catch up with the species to be protected. fisheries ministers are likely to decide on increased fishing quotas again, and biodiversity is again a marginal issue. i think that we have a good reason to take our commitments seriously here at home. and we shall see what the proposals are.
i have to say, madam president, 2010 is the international year of biodiversity. at european level, there are already excellent instruments for the protection of biodiversity. i am thinking of the natura 2000 network or the habitats directive. however, ideas are only as good as their implementation, and in many member states, unfortunately, implementation is more than inadequate. as members of the committee on petitions, we are constantly drawn to serious abuses in designated natura 2000 sites. the member states and the commission must jointly take the lead at the forthcoming conference in japan. but eventually, no one will buy this from us. we must follow our words with visible action!
biodiversity is and remains an important issue for the european union. biodiversity goes hand in hand with safeguarding europe's food supply and thus offers a promising future for future generations. european agriculture is aware of its important role as a promoter and preserver of biodiversity. through soil carbon sequestration or nature-friendly farming, our eu farmers are actively contributing to the conservation of biodiversity through their activities. however, all efforts are useless if there is no or little awareness among the population. the european citizens must be made aware of and mobilised to promote the fundamental importance of biodiversity for our nature, our economy, our lives and the future of our children. the european union is not immune to the extinction of a wide variety of species. already today, countless species are under immense threat. let's act now and set the course for a future rich in species.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that we are witnessing a worrying development in the european union, where more and more people are being forced into temporary work, pseudo-employment and mcjobs, and where the social rights of workers seem to be falling into the background. it is not just that the european court of human rights seems to be cutting down on standards of protection for workers in its case law. it is also not possible to give preference to socially committed entrepreneurs in public procurement. we have heard that everything should have been better with the lisbon treaty, but i think there is little sign of a social change. for example, the european social fund is used to try to reduce economic and social disparities between member states. however, if the settlement and execution of projects in many regions is problematic, the fund is failing to achieve its objective. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that needs to change as soon as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the political objectives are clear. we want a europe of a sustainable social market economy, of fundamental rights, without discrimination, full employment, a comprehensive social clause, social cohesion and services of general interest, defined in a subsidiary way. that's our goal. but we have too few instruments at european level to do this. most of the instruments are at the level of the member states. we need a balance between economic, competition and social instruments to achieve these objectives at european level. we should therefore extend monetary union to include economic and social union. and we must be clear that we need more acts of solidarity, and that education, skills, growth and employment are not to be played off against social, but are prerequisites for fighting poverty, exclusion and the working poor.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank mrs tanja fajon on behalf of my group for her excellent work and to thank commissioner malmström, because i think you have both done valuable work and taken the right steps. the vote in the european parliament tomorrow will make more concrete the promise of a european future for the citizens of both albania and bosnia-herzegovina. we must not forget that the european union is a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe. the broad agreement in the european parliament tomorrow will also be a clear invitation to the council to make it clear at the next council meeting in november that the council will give the green light here, just as the commission has done and as the european parliament will do tomorrow. it cannot be, as has already been said, that some member states are now advancing arguments such as new security guarantees, when we know full well that this is based only on internal political debates and not on the reality of the criteria met in bosnia-herzegovina and albania. that is to say, the call we are making here tomorrow is for the council to give the green light, as the commission and parliament have already done! as rapporteur for kosovo, i must also say to mrs flašíková beňová, who is unfortunately no longer in the chamber, that kosovo is an independent state. even if the five don't acknowledge it yet, don't want to see it yet. but it's a fact and it is so. and as the kosovo rapporteur, i also ask the commission to finally give the government in kosovo a road map so that it can start working on it and finally bring visa-free travel closer to the citizens of kosovo.
in writing. already with the visa liberalisation in 2009, many in the balkans have equated visa-free travel with a free letter. countless people have taken advantage of the eased visa requirements to enter. no one knows how many actually returned home after the deadline. it is obvious to us that visa liberalisation has nothing to do with employment and residence rights, but it does not seem clear to those concerned. the eu has never been able to decide which is more important to it, or what it considers to be right - territorial integrity or the right of peoples to self-determination. and because the multiethnic problem has been negated for too long, we now have a divided balkan state. the calculation of using readmission agreements to curb irregular entry into the eu cannot be realised as long as visa facilitation is abused. it's a lock to put on it. the importance of visa arrangements is also shown by the fact that ankara seems ready to finally sign the agreement on return in exchange for visa facilitation for turkish businessmen. the eu is also a member of the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of goods and services. the negotiations must be stopped and a privileged partnership pursued.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament's basel iii report sets out a clear position on the work of the basel committee. we are drawing attention to the open questions and problems for europe and we are presenting a set of demands to the commission for the draft directive. although and for that i thank all the shadow rapporteurs this report was adopted in committee by 38 to 0, it is nevertheless necessary to table six additional amendments as rapporteur, three of which relate to developments through the meetings of the basel committee to update, and three others relate to the leverage ratio and to the liquidity standards. the commission considers that the first pillar should be extended to all financial institutions and that the first pillar should be extended to all financial institutions and that the second pillar should be extended to all financial institutions and that the third pillar should be extended to all financial institutions and that the fourth pillar should be extended to all financial institutions and that the fourth pillar should be extended to all financial institutions and that the fifth pillar should be extended to all financial institutions and that the fourth pillar should be extended to all financial institutions and that the fifth pillar should be extended to all financial institutions and that the sixth pillar should be extended to all financial institutions and that the sixth pillar should be extended to all financial institutions. secondly, there are some open points in basel on liquidity standards which need to be addressed in order to stay current. i am a little surprised at the nine eu member states in the basel committee because they have allowed the process to be assessed as completed, although in our view there is no level playing field between the us economic structure and the european economic and banking structure, nor the classic retail and investment banks. and at the same time, we don't have a definition of liquidity yet. of course, the crisis has shown that we need a change of framework. it is therefore right to look at this and to make proposals. but the crisis has also clearly shown that we have primarily had a liquidity crisis and not primarily an equity crisis, although we need more equity. we have five open points in our view: firstly, there is no study on the impact of the figures now agreed on growth and employment in the european union. i ask the commission to draw up and present these as soon as possible. secondly, we have not examined in detail the cumulative effects of all the regulations we are currently considering. the keyword basel iii, the keyword deposit insurance, the keyword bank levy, the keyword transaction tax and beyond. thirdly, there is no level playing field between the eu and the us, for example on accounting rules, and there is no agreement yet on the period of application. fourthly, there is no level playing field in the definition of capital between retail banks and investment banks. and fifth, there are open questions like those about leverage ratio, the definition of liquidity, or the role of rating agencies in american decisions. these questions must be clarified before the commission puts forward a proposal for a directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're going to stay on the ball.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. the debate was clear, concise, competent, responsible. we have made a very good impression and we are determined. and, commissioner, i would like to thank all those involved, including you. we're not questioning the process, but it's not over. and we put our finger in the wounds. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. and we must be very clear about this: the legislative process has not yet begun, but the basel process is prejudicial and restricts our political freedom of choice. what if we had not drawn up an own-initiative report ourselves? then there would have been no debate today. we must therefore parliamentarize and democratize the basle process, the g20 process, the new global institutions that are being created, and we must be involved in the process at the same time, so that we do not have to face facts that have already been accomplished. we need a link between basel iii and the deposit guarantee. because there is this connection. we need a juncture between our decision and the global implementation, especially in the united states. we need the definition of liquidity before the draft directive. and we have a new problem in the united states because of the dodd-frank act. because the americans will have problems in implementing the liquidity standards, they are now trying again to introduce additional criteria in addition to the external ratings. our motto must be either external ratings as a basis for judgement or alternative criteria such as price stability. but not both for europe and only one for the united states. we must be vigilant and i ask you, commissioner, to ensure that the national finance and economic ministers also represent what the commission is now presenting as an impact study to their national parliaments. the awareness of what we are doing here and what the consequences and causes are in the member states is not as developed in the national parliaments as it is here. we need to launch an offensive here, too. let us involve the national parliaments in this communication process.
in writing. the crisis has clearly shown that the own capital of banks was also insufficient in terms of solvency and liquidity. the existing regulatory framework therefore needs to be radically changed and the basel committee's efforts to undertake a general review, in particular of uniform, clear and transparent regulations, are therefore to be welcomed. however, there are some shortcomings and the framework in its present form would be detrimental to the competitiveness of the european economy. european companies are dependent on bank loans. 80% of investment and loans in europe are made through bank loans. in particular, the financing of smes must be secured. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to compete effectively in the world market.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to draw attention to the week of action of the international transport workers' federation, the itf, which will be held this weekend in istanbul. the international day of solidarity is a response to the aggressive approach of a global parcel delivery company to its own employees who wanted to join a trade union. unfortunately, turkish labour law is not yet up to european standards, and this is often exploited to the extreme by employers. according to the turkish labour code, a trade union can only become active in a company if it has an organizational level of over 50%. i repeat, more than 50 percent. ups, the us parcel service provider, has now stopped the organizing campaign in a rude manner. the company terminated the employment of 157 employees who had organised themselves in the relevant transport workers' union tümtis and were campaigning for union recognition at ups. since may, thousands of ups employees have been fighting for the reinstatement of their colleagues and for better working conditions. this pro-business labour law and its rabid methods are creating a union-free space in turkey.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the structural and cohesion funds are financial instruments of the eu's regional policy, with the aim of reducing the development gap between regions and promoting regional cohesion. the future challenges for our cohesion policy - globalisation, demographic change, climate change and energy supply - are all interlinked in a very complex way. in view of the limited resources, we should focus on the core priorities and intensify the search for synergies between policies. i can only support the call for a simple, fair and transparent transitional system for cohesion policy after 2013. the redesign also depends on the ability of all actors - regions, member states and the eu - to respond to these new challenges in a timely manner.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the 27 eu member states, with their wide range of regions, cities and communities and 500 million people, as we know, have a wide range of needs and problems, and every eu initiative at brussels level has regional and local impact. structural aid has been available to less-favoured regions since the 1970s to ensure a geographically balanced economic and prosperity development. but if you look at the state of affairs, it seems that we have come very little closer to achieving these goals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. regions which lost their objective 1 status with enlargement in 2004 are not much better off. they're only statistically, on paper, better off. and as we all know, you can't eat paper. and while a large region may be well developed, it may contain small regions struggling to survive. we must therefore make cohesion policy more efficient, that is, we must make each project more sustainable.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank commissioner hahn for launching a new debate here as a former minister for the economy and innovation, which can make a major contribution to growth in europe. if every small and mediumsized enterprise in europe created an additional job, we would not have any more unemployed in europe. we should therefore consider how we can enable smes in particular to recruit new workers and to become active on international export markets. but research infrastructure is also an important concern, as is transport infrastructure. the commission has a major task here, namely to restructure the east-west link, for example paris-budapest, or the north-south link. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. european regional policy after 2013 must cover all regions, while being sufficiently flexible to take account of regional and territorial specificities. in order to exploit the growth potential of the regions to the full and thus achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion in the european union, it is essential that the competitiveness objective is given importance in addition to the cohesion objective. in particular, small-scale problems in rich member states must also be taken into account. the needs of mountain areas must be taken into account in the planning and implementation of structural measures. these areas, because of their specific geographical features, present particular problems which need to be addressed by coordinated policies and measures. in addition to the urban dimension, rural development is of particular importance under the umbrella of regional policy. the coordination of sectoral and territorial measures can maximise synergies and avoid potential conflicts.
in writing. - in the present case, the same applies as in the danish case. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the workers who have been laid off through no fault of their own or because of the financial and economic crisis caused by speculators in the united states and great britain. spain submitted an application on 5 february 2010 for a financial contribution from the egf in respect of redundancies in 82 enterprises operating in the nace division 2 division 14 (manufacture of clothing) in a nuts ii region of galicia (es11) in spain and supplemented it by additional information up to 11 may 2010. the application complies with the conditions for determining the financial contribution as laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission proposes to provide an amount of eur 1 844 700. the egf should therefore be mobilised to provide a financial contribution to the application submitted by spain, which is why i voted in favour of mrs matera's report.
in writing. − the european union has established legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in the world trade pattern and to assist their reintegration into the labour market. in addition, support may also be provided for workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. i consider this particularly important. now denmark has made a request to do so. it concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 8 893 336. the reason for the decrease was the 1 443 redundancies (of which 1 010 are for support measures) that occurred during the four-month reference period from 1 march 2009 to 30 june 2009 in three danfoss group companies operating in nace 2 divisions 27 and 28 (manufacture of electrical equipment, manufacture of machinery and equipment) in the nuts ii region of southern denmark. in the interests of rapid assistance to the workers concerned and in the interests of european solidarity among the member states, i voted in favour of the measures proposed.
in writing. the three reports by mrs matera which have been voted on today concern the support of 82 garment manufacturing companies in the galician/spanish region and 2 companies in the mechanical engineering and electronics & mechanics sectors in the southern danish region. the total number of people who can be helped to reintegrate into the labour market is 2,344.
in writing. − the international trade committee voted unanimously last week to postpone the discharge for the european police college for 2008 and to reject its closure. the european parliament has now also voted overwhelmingly against a discharge for cepol and thus against a positive budgetary outcome for 2008, due to serious shortcomings in the respect of financial and staff regulations. it is good to see that parliament has done its job in the discharge procedure in question and has sent a clear signal against negligent mismanagement. i congratulate my colleague, mrs mathieu, on this report.
in writing. − de facto, the visa liberalisation of 2009 has shown that in the balkans many equate visa-free travel with a free pass. countless people have taken advantage of the eased visa requirements to enter. no one knows how many actually returned home after the deadline. it does not seem clear to those concerned that visa liberalisation has nothing to do with jobs and residence rights. the calculation of using readmission agreements to curb irregular entry into the eu cannot be realised as long as visa facilitation is abused. it's a lock to put on it. the eu has never been able to decide which is more important to it, or what it considers to be right - territorial integrity or the right of peoples to self-determination. and because the multiethnic problem has been negated for too long, we now have a divided balkan state. the fact that some member states have not recognised kosovo, and that they want to impose recognition indirectly through visa agreements, is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and is an interference with national rights which must be rejected in the strongest possible terms. i have voted against the fajon report on these grounds.
in writing. − the oil spill in the gulf of mexico shows that financial considerations can easily lead to safety rules being ignored and common sense being thrown overboard. the depths in the northeast atlantic are similar to those in the gulf of mexico, and so are the risks. the fact that most oil drilling and exploration takes place in the north sea, that the neighbouring countries have not been able to reach an agreement in breach of their obligations under the ospar convention and that the us has tightened up its safety regulations, makes the security debate in europe all the more important. this is all the more so because it is in times of high oil prices that the development of hard-to-reach oil fields and the extraction of oil under the most adverse conditions, such as at increasingly greater depths, becomes profitable. i therefore welcome the fact that appropriate safety standards are now being sought at eu level and have agreed to the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − biodiversity is the basis of life for all people, which implies that biodiversity and natural habitats must be preserved. the decline in biodiversity and ecological systems is particularly acute for poor populations, who are often dependent on natural products for their survival. it should be in the interest of western governments to preserve this diversity and to take measures to raise awareness of the issue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper way. i abstain because the targets are too high and the eu's pioneering role is only effective if large nations such as china are also prepared to rethink.
in writing. − although studies estimate the current loss of wealth due to biodiversity losses at around eur 50 billion/year, this issue is not on the international political agenda. at european level, there are already excellent instruments that need to be targeted and coordinated with climate action to maximise the value of investment. the investment in biodiversity conservation will pay off.
in writing. − the eu's cohesion policy system supports the equality of poorer and richer regions. the aim is to offset the effects of uneven economic developments. however, it is necessary to ensure that the allocation of funds to the regions is fair and transparent. the criteria for granting subsidies should also be clearly defined. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i am voting against the resolution because it does not make it clear enough to what extent subsidies are controlled and how they are allocated.
in writing. − this report calls for a simple, fair and transparent transition system after 2013. the key challenges of cohesion and regional policy were identified, among others, as climate change, which will also have a considerable impact on the austrian regions, to varying degrees, as tourism and agriculture and forestry will be among the most affected sectors. as the motion for a resolution points out, the limited resources must be concentrated on the core priorities and common solutions must be found to common problems.
in writing. the european social fund seeks to reduce economic and social disparities between member states. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the creation of a european network of training centres for the training of young people. the existing potential must be exploited to prevent the economy from importing cheap foreign experts en masse under the guise of a shortage of skilled workers. in this context, various card considerations are also to be rejected. however, if the clearing and settlement of projects is causing problems in many regions and if, for example, the french ppp training programme has been waiting for payments for three years due to changes in responsibilities within the brussels bureaucracy, the programme is missing its target. it is also clear that more attention needs to be paid to smes as 'real' employers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the european social fund plays a key role in improving employment and job creation. the priorities of the resolution, namely the modernisation of education systems (including extension through training measures adapted to the needs of smes), the promotion of decent work and, of course, gender equality by creating conditions which allow reconciliation of work and family life, should be supported. every effort must be made to ensure that eu policies and instruments are coordinated and complementary (paragraph 13 of this report).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the very good work they have done and for the compromises that have been made. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but i can assure mr saryusz-wolski that it is not just the new members of this house, but all of us who must ensure that there is a better geographical balance, just as all of us - not just the women - must ensure that there is a better gender balance. it is necessary, and i take the promises seriously, and we will certainly press for things to be done. the first is to provide the european union with a service of the highest quality. i do not see any contradiction in that, on the contrary, things have to be put in the same denominator. because now is the time to act, now is the time to show the commitment that we as the european union have to the international arena. in iran, the high commissioner has already taken the lead and it is very important that we get good results here. in the middle east, we need to be not just the payers, but also the players, for the cause, not just for our prestige. as far as russia is concerned, we must ensure that we achieve a pragmatic but nonetheless value-based relationship, above all in the interests of our common neighbours. we must negotiate with the united states on an equal footing. where there are problems, we must also address them openly so that we can act together with the united states in the fight against terrorism, in the redesign of globalisation. as far as china is concerned, china is a newly emerging power. we do not want to prevent this, but we are opposed to a nationalism which is developing a certain aggressiveness, especially in the asian region. we want to involve china more closely in the international community, including in international institutions. the commission is also aware that the european union is not the only institution in the world which is facing a crisis, and that it is not the only institution which is facing a crisis. these are all huge tasks for the diplomatic service and the high commissioner needs our full support. the belgian presidency of the council, that is to say you, mr minister, have just promised that you will give the high commissioner your support. this promise is good, and the congratulations are good, but i hope that the foreign ministers will also realise that there is no point in playing one against the other, but that there is only one way: that the foreign ministers, the high commissioner and we in this parliament can together represent europe strongly abroad.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in order to be able to represent the interests of european countries more effectively on the international stage, the foreign policy approach must be discussed in advance and then communicated to the outside world with a single voice. the ead is now an attempt to bring the union's foreign policy instruments into a coherent framework. the existing resources are bundled and rounded off by new ones. as our colleagues have pointed out in their report, the novelty of this structure requires the application of demanding provisions on transparency and budgetary and financial accountability. a detailed overview of expenditure and staff working in the edf is required. the ep's budgetary authority vis-à-vis the eeas requires that the service be integrated into the commission's structure and that the ep, as the budgetary authority, have all the information it needs to be able to control the accounts effectively. the council's discharge remains on the agenda for us. the eac can only bear its name if all the member states are represented in a balanced way. on the other hand, the qualifications of the applicants must be given priority. this brings me to the female ratio. it is definitely too low for me, and i urge you to find qualified women for these positions. they're there!
i have to say, madam president, the european external action service will in future play the fundamental role in the european union's common foreign and security policy. to fulfil this role, clear rules are needed to ensure that the edf operates smoothly and efficiently. i would like to stress in particular the need to ensure the monitoring of the edf's financial operations, which are clearly addressed in the present report by mrs gräßle and mr rivellini. the key elements are the annual declarations of assurance and activity reports to be submitted to parliament and the european parliament's discharge. i also welcome the approach of member states being liable for financial irregularities by their own staff. the present report has my full support and is an important step in the right direction.
in writing. mass protests and strikes in response to tough austerity packages are currently paralysing france. if at the same time the administrative water heap is increased, as in greece, where the government was increased despite the bailout packages, then people in europe are rightly angry. to date, the eu boasts a lean administration - which is of course not true if you count the outsourced agencies. 50 general managers with a monthly salary of 17,000 euros for 30 employees, 73 promotions to director - it is easy to get the impression of a self-service store. of course, it is important that the qualifications of an ead staff member are correct, and in this sense, gender quotas, for example, are not appropriate. the principle 'who pays makes a difference' is nevertheless a good one to avoid putting the net contributors in the way. the refusal to strengthen german as the working language of the ead has created diplomatic rifts, and it is not worthwhile to deepen them. the eac will have to ensure that the eu no longer acts as an appendage to the us. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to prevent the spread of the disease. and the world order is no longer those two, but emerging powers like china. we should not overlook that.
i have to say, madam president, it is worrying that in the eu thousands of people live on the poverty line despite having a fixed job. in view of this, any attempt to establish an appropriate minimum wage is to be welcomed. however, a minimum wage only makes sense in combination with other measures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed. finally, small and mediumsized enterprises cannot afford a statutory minimum wage with the same tax burden, and higher wages naturally also carry the risk of an increase in the price of goods and services. this would in turn set in motion the inflationary spiral. the emphasis must therefore be on the relief of the labour factor. work must be paid for by eu citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. poverty and social exclusion are a violation of human dignity and therefore of fundamental human rights. single parents, children, and the elderly are most at risk. women represent a significant proportion of the population at risk of poverty, on the one hand because of the still widespread discrimination in wages and pensions and on the other because of the very precarious working conditions which are common. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations. minimum security, yes, but with massive checks and restrictions to prevent any possible abuse from the start. minimum income yes, but on the condition that this does not lead to any new indirect or reverse discrimination.
in writing. − statistics are important for action, because they provide facts on which decisions can be based. however, in the case of statistical data collection, a balance must always be struck between the necessary collection of facts and the administrative burden. to date, 18 member states have collected data on the sea transport of goods and passengers on a voluntary basis. it makes sense if the relevant data really do not create any additional burden, i.e. the member states are actually able to compile these data using existing sources of information. to compile complete statistics on sea freight and passenger transport for all goods and all modes of transport for comparative purposes seems to me to be an excessive administrative burden. i therefore voted in that spirit.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate mrs matera on the four reports on the mobilisation of the globalisation fund. the extension of the scope of the globalisation fund to include employees was an important step towards reaching out directly to european citizens. the instrument of the globalisation fund is designed to serve those who have been caught off guard by the consequences of globalisation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. this is the only way to ensure that european citizens are helped and that trust in the eu is strengthened.
in writing. the aid is intended to support enterprises in the machinery and equipment manufacturing sector in the central region of north jutland. in this region at the north-eastern tip of northern jutland, 951 people were made redundant in 45 enterprises between 15 february and 14 november 2009. to help these workers reintegrate into working life, the fund will provide an amount of eur 7 521 359.
in writing. − since 1 may 2009, the european globalisation adjustment fund has had an extended scope. it also aims to provide support to workers who have lost their jobs as a direct consequence of the global financial and economic crisis. in the nuts ii regions of gelderland and eindhoven in the netherlands, 512 workers were made redundant at the company nxl semiconductors netherlands. an amount of eur 1 809 434 is hereby released to support them.
in writing. - in the multinational company quimona s.a. , which operates in the electronics sector, 839 redundancies were recorded in the central norte region, due to the global financial and economic crisis. the eur 2 405 671 provided by the globalisation fund will be used to provide a coordinated package of personalised services, which will complement national and company measures.
in writing. − this financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund will benefit 1 429 workers in the manufacture of motor vehicles and motor vehicle components in the spanish region of catalonia. in this particular case, the commission proposed to provide eur 2 752 935 from the fund to help former employees of the 23 companies reintegrate into the labour market, as the application completed in april qualified for a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. − increasing incomes and improved infrastructure are also driving higher fish consumption in developing countries. the quantities of fish caught, which are already increasing each year, will therefore continue to increase. studies have shown that the increase in fish stocks in the oceans and inland waters is mostly due to aquaculture. with ever-larger fleets, ever-smaller fish stocks are being harvested. in order to put an end to ruthless overfishing, it is important to establish monitoring and control systems. worrying too are reports of fishermen being held captive on the high seas like serfs, toiling for the lowest wages in slavelike conditions. if we want to enable our descendants to know the taste of fish, then controls are indispensable. nevertheless, it makes sense to renationalize at least part of the fisheries policy in order to deal comprehensively with regional problems. i voted in favour of that.
in writing. −already some 30 years ago, people were thinking about how best to use and manage fisheries resources in a sustainable way. the new regulation will be based on the principle of the free movement of goods, and will be based on the principle of the free movement of persons, as well as on the principle of the free movement of goods. fishing quotas and stock management are essential to prevent overfishing of inland waters and oceans. but of course we must ensure that organisations like nafo remain viable thanks to a sound structure and good organisation. the commission has also been asked to take a number of measures to ensure that the cost of the new system is not excessive. nevertheless, it makes sense to renationalize the fisheries policy at least partially, so that regional problems can be tackled in a comprehensive way. i voted in favour of that.
in writing. - these forms of employment are certainly a predominantly female problem, as the incompatibility of work and family forces many women into these precarious work situations and preprogrammed later poverty. it should not be overlooked that men are also affected by these forms of work and that even full-time jobs often threaten poverty. however, local social systems and measures are designed to accommodate the industrious indigenous population in an emergency. the report focuses far too much on female migrants, who often seem to be in part-time work, and even indirectly prescribes that settlement should be supported. women are certainly particularly affected by the false promises of the smuggling gangs, the problems of globalisation and, in the case of illegal immigration, by neo-slave labour in companies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat poverty, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals for the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the only way to change this is to do so locally, in the countries of origin. this cementation over the back door is to be rejected in the strongest possible terms.
in writing. - recent research has shown that 31% of women in employment are in parttime employment compared with only 8% of men. parttime workers have lower incomes and therefore receive lower pensions than fulltime workers; the first is that the team is not always able to work together, and that this is reflected in the promotion or occupation of higher positions. in management positions, 36% of men have at least a university degree, compared with only 15% of women. as regards lower income, it should be noted that in europe, the difference between men and women, without taking into account the number of hours worked and the number of contracts, is on average 18%.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask why the committee on industry, research and energy has not delivered an opinion. that's where the biggest cuts were made. why is there no speaker scheduled?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also have a question for mr hartong, and i would like to know whether his party, which is now also a major party in the dutch parliament to support the government, intends to force the netherlands, which is also a net contributor, to reduce its net contributions to the eu on the basis of this criticism of the eu's financial arrangements?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eu budget for 2011 presents a new challenge for all parliament, council and commission . since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, there has been an increase in the ep's responsibility and legislative work. first of all, i note that the eu budget currently amounts to just over 1% of gni. i would like to make three comments in particular. first, the eu budget for 2011 has set priorities that need to be strengthened in the light of economic problems across europe following the structural crisis of recent years. above all, reducing existing unemployment in europe must remain at the heart of our efforts, for example through investment in the economy, industry, tourism, energy and climate policy, by safeguarding existing jobs and creating new ones. i am thinking in particular of the priorities for youth, education and mobility. we must focus on programmes such as lifelong learning or youth in action. they support the eu economic recovery strategy and the eu 2020 strategy. the young people will have much better opportunities on the labour market if they have more education, especially qualified education. erasmus not only facilitates language learning, but also mobility - a necessity in a globalised world. however, mobility also involves the responsibility of young people and these programmes should be used much more. secondly, the main objective of the cap must remain to maintain market stability and food security. last but not least, third, money is scarce in these economically difficult times. the problem is, as i have said on several occasions, to make bureaucracy more efficient in all possible areas, to find synergies with the member states and to exploit them.
in writing. the european union's clout is measured by its budget. i support the present proposals for the 2011 budget because they take account of the important policy areas and take account of the individual opinions. it must be clear that the eu cannot afford to have less financial resources in the future to fulfil its wide-ranging tasks. as a farmer's representative, i am strongly opposed to the withdrawal of funds from the agricultural sector. financial returns should be used to provide planning certainty for our farmers, rather than being diverted to other policy areas. at present, agricultural resources should be used to finance the iter nuclear exploration project. the example shows that the financing of large research projects depends on returns from other areas, but the amount of these returns is difficult to determine in advance. it is not possible that long-term and well-thought-out financing plans for european research are not being made. the agricultural policy also thinks and plans for the long term, and we must pass this certainty on to farms. as the weakest link in the food chain, farms need planning certainty to survive. the financial resources allocated to this purpose need to be targeted in order to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture in the eu. investments in agricultural research and green technology are investments in the future and create new jobs.
commissioner barnier, i would like to know what effect basel 2 will have on the american market, where many hundreds of small banks have now gone bankrupt. what has been the effect on the big banks? what's the american position on basel 3? will this be implemented at the same time as europe or will america implement it before us? what is the timetable for the implementation of basel 2 and basel 3 with regard to america?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank the commissioner for his really detailed answer. i have a small question about cross compliance and biodiversity, which you have already raised today. proper farming can help to preserve biodiversity and stop species from dying out. it is not the commissioner for the environment alone who can create awareness. the commissioner, my question to you is very specific: what will you do to raise awareness among those concerned - and i mean among policy makers, consumers, but above all among the farmers concerned - of the value of biodiversity and the related ecosystem services?
i have to say, madam president, i admire the ability of my colleagues to interpret the laughter of the two colleagues over there in a certain way. but back to the case: i think the debate is too important to try to make political petty money out of it. first of all, i would like to express my solidarity and sympathy with the victims, and especially with the aid workers who are putting their lives on the line to stop and reverse this catastrophe. but it is important that we keep our heads and do an analysis of the actual situation and, above all, assign responsibilities. i would like to agree with the commissioner when she says that we must see whether the guidelines we have created here in europe for such cases have been properly implemented and applied. this is the first step, and i look forward very much to the commission's report and its conclusions. at the same time, however, i would ask the commission to hold those member states which do not properly implement the law we are creating here much more harshly and also much more swiftly to account. that is the commission's task, and i find that the commission is sometimes a little lax in this respect. it would be well to remind the member states of their responsibilities. secondly, we have the principle of 'if you do something, you pay' here in europe. i think that is a very good and important principle and i am not in favour of shifting the responsibility for such cases to the public. i therefore do not think that the call for an extension of the solidarity fund is justified, because we have a clear-cut culprit here and he should pay for the damage that has been done. of course, we should consider whether, when such disasters occur, individual firms are even able to bear the financial burden. i am looking again to the commission, which should consider whether we should put in place insurance solutions to enable people who have suffered damage to be compensated accordingly.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that this disaster case shows once again very clearly the importance of european legislation and also its implementation and control. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in all its aspects. commissioner, some people have already said to you that the european laws we have are inadequate, that they are not sufficiently implemented and that the commission does not sufficiently monitor them. one of them is liability legislation. there is a real gap here in the way that those who cause such disasters are held accountable and have to pay. what are you going to do, change the law here so that the polluters have to pay? what do you intend to do with hungary to allow independent investigations and what is your position on the proposal - as my colleague satu hassi has already said - to set up an eu task force of its own? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to participate in the debate on the report. do you intend to work with the hungarian government to ensure that an independent report can be made?
the commission has already done so. today's debate shows once again the importance of the european parliament's decision on 9 september to say clearly that france - a member state - is in our view violating fundamental rights, discriminating against people on the basis of their ethnicity, and to call on you to take action. first of all, you have very clearly, enthusiastically and decisively stated all that you have done so far and for which you have received our full support. but now we think that a step back has been taken. the demand that there should be an infringement procedure because there has been discrimination on the grounds of ethnic origin has been confirmed by the documents mentioned by some speakers and referred to today in french newspapers. there has clearly been discrimination against roma on the basis of their ethnicity, and it was not just the freedom of movement of persons that was violated. i therefore call again for action to be taken here and for a procedure to be initiated.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! the debate shows one thing: the deauville agreement is a step backwards for the european union and the deauville agreement shows us that neither mr deauville nor mrs deauville have learned anything from the misconduct of germany and france in 2002 and 2005, when they began to undermine the stability pact, but that we are now witnessing a continuation of this misconduct. we want to overcome the mistakes of the past, we want to give a european answer to the nationalisms and to the blockages that have been built into most european regulations. we did that at the financial market authority. that is what we are doing with the report in response to the crisis. we are doing that with the feio report and we are doing that in our daily legislative work. let's focus on that and not let it interfere with us, not even in this debate. we have to move forward. we have to find the answers. the report by the five political groups is clear. the crisis is not over. fiscal and monetary policy are not substitutes for structural reforms. we say a clear yes to reducing the deficit as a prerequisite for securing the future. deficit reduction cannot be done with the lawnmower. it must be achieved through reform, investment, savings and change. this report gives a clear answer that we want more europe as part of the solution. let us take the next step towards integration, towards the creation of an economic union, towards the creation of a social union, towards the creation of a defence and security union, and let us make the internal market the home market of all citizens. the community's europe, the initiative of the european union, is the answer. the task force and the deauville method have failed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have hardly half-regulated the stock market monopoly of the financial sharks, and we are faced with the problem of a global race to depreciate currencies, which, despite the slight counteraction from china today, is still not contained. what we in europe have condemned, namely devaluation or intervention in the foreign exchange market, is now being imposed on us as a problem with globalisation. the americans want to reduce the national debt, the japanese want to boost the economy and the chinese want to support exports. and this soft monetary policy of other economic powers is of course damaging to europe, but also to other countries, and therefore, in my view, it must be an important topic at the g20 summit. the flooding of the world market with cheap chinese products is easy when the currency is artificially undervalued. such permanent intervention distorts the market - a very dangerous game, which could, in the worst case, bring down the entire world economy. although the prospects for success are doubtful, it will be necessary to bring up the plans for a financial transaction tax at the summit.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis has clearly demonstrated the gaps and weaknesses in the existing instruments and methods of economic and monetary policy coordination. in the past, some member states, particularly france and germany, have been too hesitant to introduce stricter rules. the economic crisis is one of the greatest challenges to which there can be no national answer but a european one. this also applies to sanctions mechanisms, which are still partly blocked by member states. the new rules for the internal financial market mean that it is now time to strengthen monetary union and, at the same time, reduce public debt in order to secure the future of the european economic area. the aim is to involve the national parliaments more closely in this process, in order to europeanise the debate in the member states. only then can a european response be found to overcome the crisis and achieve a robust and strong economic union.
in writing. the european external action service (eeas) will be the future foreign policy mouthpiece of the european union. it will be a forum in which the different positions will find a voice which is strongly communicative, and this must be supported. the ead's effective functioning requires efficient financial control. the eac is a part of the commission, and this is the only way to ensure that this control is carried out in the best possible way. the clear division of rights and duties ensures smooth working. i support the successful report by mrs gräßle and mr rivellini and have clearly expressed my support for this constructive contribution by the european parliament.
in writing. - in addition to the double structures created by the edf, the cost of personnel is exploding once again in the wasteful and bureaucratic manner typical of the eu! of the 1,643 posts that the ead is to open on 1 december, some 50 are directors-general! this means that a director-general will have just over 30 employees in the initial phase! in the final build, not even 80! the directors-general will be paid an average of eur 17 000 per month, with a further level of 224 directors and 235 heads of unit. in addition, a specific task and objective for the ead staff is still to be defined! we want the eu to have a strong voice in the world, but we certainly do not need a bloated administrative apparatus that costs eu citizens billions through double structures and fraudsters! i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − to be able to represent the interests of european states more effectively on the international stage, the foreign policy approach must be discussed in advance and then communicated with a single voice to the outside world. the european external action service is now trying to bring the union's external policy instruments into a coherent framework, pooling existing resources and supplementing them with new resources. the new structure of the system requires the application of strict rules on transparency and budgetary and financial accountability. the ep's budgetary authority also extends to the eeas if the service is integrated into the commission's structure, otherwise there is no possibility of a discharge under the treaties. the annual activity reports shall also be made available to the budgetary authority.
in writing. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the future of the european union. a system in which each of the 50 directors-general is initially responsible for only 30 employees and later for well over 80 would be an expensive administrative drain. the ead is also to be accompanied by a wave of promotions. some questions are still not sufficiently clear. the possible impact on building costs shall be examined in advance. other factors, such as the actual implementation of the contractually fixed importance of the working language german, were negated. for these reasons, the ead funding in its current form should be rejected.
in writing. − to overcome the crisis, the eu's priorities should be financed with as much money as possible in 2010 the reflection. this was made possible by a budgetary realignment. financial support for accompanying measures in the banana sector was not provided for in the current multiannual financial framework. the eu's financial support for acp banana suppliers should therefore be maintained in order to offset trade liberalisation at wto level and the associated reduction in mfn tariffs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are not used in this way.
in writing. − i support the european parliament's proposals on the draft budget for 2011. the report shall cover the main policy areas and take account of the individual opinions. parliament is committed to ensuring that the european union cannot in future be reduced in financial resources in order to fulfil its vast and varied tasks. this is particularly true of the agricultural sector. the committee on agriculture's opinion on the 2011 budget has already expressed concern that the commission is making optimistic assumptions in the planning and use of unused appropriations. large european research projects depend on financial returns whose amount is not known in advance. the commission is invited to ensure that research and development funding is provided on a long-term basis in future and to draw up detailed financing plans. financial returns from the agricultural pot are intended to serve the original purpose.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty also changes the eu's financial structures, in particular the multiannual financial framework (mff) and the annual budgetary procedure. the mff will become legally binding and will be adopted by the council, acting unanimously after obtaining the consent of the european parliament. the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure is no longer made, but the two budgetary authorities are now jointly responsible for deciding on them, and the procedure is simplified. the fact that parliament now has a vote on the entire budget strengthens democratic control. the procedure is also designed to simplify some bureaucratic procedures. it is important that the european parliament, as the only directly elected institution of the european union, is strengthened in its budgetary powers, as this can influence important eu decisions, such as the demand for cost savings in the newly established edf. i cannot, however, support any tendencies towards centralisation.
in writing. − key points of the eu budget for 2011 investing in education, research and innovation is a necessity in the current labour market situation. reducing existing unemployment in europe must be at the heart of all decisions, including the actual implementation of the ambitious eu 2020 targets. the priorities for young people in education and mobility programmes are a very worthwhile investment with good prospects for the labour market. there are increases or cuts in the budget, it is a compromise, like any decision by several parties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i am in favour of improving european minimum standards for maternity protection. however, i did vote against the report in the end, because i come from a country where a special combination of maternity protection and parental leave/parental leave is established. in addition to 16 weeks of full pay and absolute prohibition from employment, women have a right to paid leave. the amount of childcare allowance received during the waiting period depends on the length of the waiting period and the amount of the last income. the austrian regulations go far beyond the minimum standards required by this report. i am also in favour of the introduction of a fully paid paternity leave, but i think that a different legal basis should be chosen. i believe that these paternity weeks should not be regulated in the maternity directive but in a specific directive which does not aim at protecting the health of mothers and children.
in writing. - i welcome the report's decision to take a clear stand on the side of small and mediumsized enterprises. late payment is a massive economic problem in business within the eu. in the agricultural sector, too, it is a serious issue when liquidity problems are blamed on agricultural enterprises. clearly defined payment deadlines put a lid on these methods. i supported the 30-day payment deadline proposed in the report as a rule and also the introduction of a general ceiling of 60 days. i cannot understand why the payment of public money in individual member states is delayed in transactions with public administrations. late payment causes serious disruption to the business environment and the internal market and has a direct impact on member states. the flat-rate compensation required, payable from the first day of delay, constitutes a serious obstacle to this.
in writing. − external factors pose a significant financial risk, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. a lack of payment morale can lead to a significant reduction in liquidity, especially in times of crisis. measures to increase awareness of payments could be beneficial. i abstained because i am not convinced that a europe-wide regulation is useful and has a positive impact on payment morals.
in writing. − about 85 million people in the eu are currently at risk of poverty. there are different groups: children and adolescents up to the age of 17 are at higher risk of poverty, meaning that one in five children/adolescents is affected by poverty. older people are also more at risk of poverty than the general population. the poverty risk rate for people over 65 years was 19% in 2008. however, there is also an average of 8% of the working population who were at risk of poverty in 2008 the so-called working poor. the idea of a minimum income contributes significantly to the social integration of vulnerable groups of people, but the greatest possible attention should be paid in the drafting of the guidelines to maximum control and prevention of the possible exploitation of this social benefit; if you look at the number of people who are receiving unemployment benefits, there are 23 million people who need to be paid unemployment benefits to live a decent life.
in writing. − the financial crisis has put an end to the market for self-regulating financial markets. in particular, the opacity of financial products and risky box designs, together with the soft monetary policy of the united states and conflicts of interest in ratings, have also triggered a global financial crisis. the eu countries and their people are still reeling from the economic crisis that followed, with rising unemployment rates and social cuts. the rescue packages have only been able to stop the downward spiral in the short term, and in the long term the underlying problems are only going to be reversed. the crisis must not be used to expand the eu's powers. eurocrats and bureaucrats are not the answer to the crisis, but rather to the crisis by their equalization and by their ignoring of cultural differences. there is nothing to prevent better coordination and agreement at eu level, but a european economic government is to be rejected in the strongest possible terms, which is why i reject the report in the strongest possible terms.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to express my displeasure that today, on important issues, where finance, development aid and democratic principles are concerned, it is obvious that a counter-event or an unfortunate parallel event here - i think i counted correctly - can only seat 14 colleagues because the others are disciplined at the other event. it is unfair to the speakers and the ladies and gentlemen who are reporting today, to colleagues, and i do not want to speak of the staff and the commission representation, who have to sit in front of an empty room.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu's financial institutions still face some problems. on the one hand, the complexity of the financial assistance is partly due to the difficulty of obtaining it, and on the other hand, the control systems are still not optimally designed, for example, in the case of pre-accession aid, which is known to be granted to potential candidates for accession, but the payment of which only makes sense when the countries concerned get a handle on corruption problems or when the necessary structures are actually in place. in this context, the eu has hopefully learnt from the rash enlargement of 2007. in the case of the instrument for stability and development cooperation, too often the budgeted resources do not reach the local institutions for which they are intended, or only partially. this is partly due to weak institutions in the recipient countries, but also to incorrect incentive structures and lack of accountability. it should be borne in mind that, according to an imf study, public spending in 33 countries depends on international development aid for more than 50%. the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the draft budget.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank you in advance for conducting our meeting in a constructive manner and for being so fair in naming the names of those who are and those who are not to be heard. every year, the oecd countries pump over a hundred billion dollars into development aid. this represents 90% of global public development aid. the eu is the world's largest donor of development aid. but every year, three billion euros are lost because of poor quality aid. so what can be done? we expect to see controls in the future to ensure that the funds are used in a way that is traceable and sustainable. we also expect that the recipient countries will be obliged to cooperate, for example, in the return of illegal migrants. development aid can also be used as a means of pressure to conclude readmission agreements. uncooperative countries of origin of millions of illegal migrants cannot also enjoy millions more in development aid. i expect clear words here at the forthcoming eu-africa summit in november.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. within a few months of the presidential elections in february this year, in which yanukovych celebrated his comeback, the democratic gains of the orange revolution appear to be lost. but if even the financial markets consider the new government to be more stable and predictable than the orange revolution, this is probably also a sign that democracy according to western - according to our european - ideas cannot be applied one-to-one to all countries, not even to those in the post-communist sphere of influence. the decision of the constitutional court today would strengthen the position of the president and weaken that of parliament, we know that. those familiar with the region say that a de facto presidential system already existed before the pro-forma court decision. the increasing restrictions on freedom of the press and expression cast doubt on yanukovych's assurances of adherence to democratic standards. if the president succeeds in consolidating his power and in bringing about economic recovery in ukraine, one of the poorest countries on the continent, by means of fundamental reforms, he may be able to stay in office for a longer period. and i think the union should take note of that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we all have to live up to our responsibilities. the government in ukraine must enforce the rule of law and media freedom, and effectively enforce it, but the opposition must also show responsibility and must not spread false information. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. and we need to show responsibility. we cannot become part of the domestic political conflict. it is not reasonable, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the epp, that we should now defend one or the other party politically. that's not our job. we have discussions with the foreign minister next week, then we have the elections, then we have the parliamentary cooperation committee that is going to ukraine, and it is - mr gahler, i appeal to your fairness - it has always been the case that we say after the elections whether things have gone well or badly, and not before the elections say: "this will go badly". that is not our task, and i appeal to your fairness, which you usually show, and i ask you to remain fair in this case as well.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the creation of the energy community in 2006 has established an integrated european energy market for gas and electricity, and the planned inclusion of ukraine is intended to further strengthen energy supplies to eastern europe. this is good, because there have been some serious problems in recent years, and the gas dispute between russia and ukraine in particular has had a major impact on the gas supply of the european member states. as a result, it was obvious that the price discussions had led to russia stopping gas supplies, and my home country of austria alone had a 33% drop in russian gas supplies, but france, hungary and italy also had losses of 20-40%. the commission is called upon to act as the coordinator of the energy community. the commission has to take ukraine under its wing and make it do its duty when it comes to europe's security of supply. the energy supply of our member states must not be allowed to become a frivolous plaything in the price war between russia and ukraine. so we must have good talks, but we must also be tough and secure the energy supply for our member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is not a conversation. but mr gahler, you should at least be informed to the extent that you know that i have made it very clear, even in a press conference, also on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists, that the intelligence services must be controlled. i have said this in my conversation with prime minister azarov. we have a clear position here. i would ask you once again to consider overnight whether it is not more sensible for us to adopt a resolution together, as a broad community, rather than by a narrow majority, as is the case now. think about it again. that would be reasonable.
i have to say, madam president, in copenhagen, even cooperative countries such as indonesia and brazil have finally sided with the g77 countries, forming a bloc against the so-called rich in the north. the climate debate has been transformed into a debate on justice, and at the preparatory conference, emerging markets made it clear that they do not want to make concessions in cancún. so my question to you is: how can we avoid this kind of blockage and how can we prevent this kind of shifting of the subject? should the eu not play an important mediating role here?
the council has already taken a decision on this. landmines are likely to remain a major problem for some time to come. do you think it's possible to initiate our own research programs to detect landmines? this is not just a european problem, it is a global problem. can you imagine finding suitable institutions here to deal with research programmes in this field?
mr president of the council! we have agencies already dealing with these issues. i remember the agency in vienna. it is not possible to ask the agency to concentrate on this issue and to prepare it so that we do not have to create a new institution, but the existing agency in vienna could carry out this activity. we have highly qualified staff there. it would be good if that were encouraged.
the commission has already done so. it's not easy to have a factual discussion when you're talking about 100,000 children being made homeless, millions of farmers on the streets, people living in very, very dire poverty. i think it is right that the european union should act quickly and help quickly. the big question for me about the measures you have proposed is: are you helping in the right place or are you helping the wrong person? i would like to explain this in more detail, because it is quite justified to say that in the textile sector the aid is of course helping pakistan as a whole, but whether it reaches the right people i am not so sure. secondly, i would say that if this aid is self-help, then of course we must also take into account how the whole thing will affect europe. but i think that the overall situation is that we have a drastic situation here, that we have to help, and i hope that this help also reaches those who really need help.
i have to say, madam president, the flood disaster in pakistan has had an unprecedented humanitarian impact. i believe that the european union has a duty to provide rapid aid to the people of pakistan. the eu's contribution to helping the hard-hit country emerge from the crisis is a major contribution of measures to sustain economic and employment recovery. i think it is doubtful whether a mere reduction in customs duties will have the desired effect. it is necessary to establish whether the benefits to pakistan are not channelled through indirect channels to third countries and thus do not have the desired effect. i am thinking here of the bioethanol sector in addition to the textile industry. my specific question to the commission is whether the establishment of a tariff quota for ethanol is seen as a really sustainable and efficient way of helping the people of pakistan. can it be estimated whether the sustainability criteria required for import into the eu are also met for the production of bioethanol? (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty).)
i have to say, madam president, i think that's the core element that we're discussing here. the measures must be clearly designed to ensure that aid is provided in a sustainable manner. and above all, the question is always to what extent the cost-benefit balance for europe is ultimately balanced.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would also like to thank my colleague, mrs muscardini, for the work she has done, particularly in the light of the controversial positions that have been discussed in some of the reports. i am fully in favour of the need to educate european consumers. i also believe that our aim must be to protect european citizens from dangerous and harmful products. the final consumer should know what raw materials are used, how they are obtained, where and how they are processed, and what social and production standards apply in the countries concerned. the goal is clear, but the path must be well thought out. the proposed made in scheme, as it stands, does not, unfortunately, say anything about the actual origin of a product. i would like to illustrate this by an example: uzbekistan is the world's third largest exporter of cotton. 90% of the harvest is done by hand, and most of it is done by children. the cotton is then shipped to vietnam for further processing. the commission's proposal now calls for textiles imported into the eu from vietnam to be labelled as 'made in vietnam'. but where is the transparency for european consumers? no one knows where the raw materials come from or how they were extracted. i'm afraid that's not enough information. the european consumer centre in austria has published a recent study, and it says that the world's leading and well-known textile companies cannot rule out using raw materials from state-owned enterprises with child labor in their production. such a 'made in' system, which excludes raw materials from production processes, clearly ignores the needs of european end-users. i am in favour of greater product fidelity and therefore oppose this commission proposal.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i have recently had the pleasure of visiting the european production facilities of the international trade committee, small companies which have to produce under very difficult conditions: excellent quality, fair pay, good working conditions, a reasonable working climate. the reason why this is the case is that tradition and the european legal order have given rise to it. but there are many countries where this is not the case, where there are no good working conditions, where this is not guaranteed. i think that in future european consumers will have to at least be able to identify whether the product they are buying comes from such and such a country. this is something that this directive, which has been very well drafted by mrs muscardini, will require in the future. that's why we should agree. i would like to say to those who have moved their production abroad for convenience and less bureaucracy and who are now complaining about it: it is your own fault!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the acta negotiations are now more or less concluded. the text of the treaty in its most recent version already reads like the legal texts in force in the individual member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. the original aim of the agreement was to strengthen law enforcement. i do not see any specific solutions in the proposal. it was announced before publication that the contested items had been deleted. the present wording does not, however, seem to me to take sufficient account of the conflicting interests. for example, article 2 (2) of the treaty states: 'procedures adopted, maintained, or applied to implement this chapter shall be fair, equitable and provide for the rights of all participants subject to procedures to be appropriately protected'. there is no explicit reference to the need to ensure legal certainty in the chapter on interim measures, nor is there any need-to-know provision for the destruction of infringing products. last but not least, it says that final points will only be dealt with via e-mail. the latter also covers the scope of the convention. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. perhaps there would be appropriate solutions in the treaty.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commissioner, since the acta text has been presented, has raised more and more questions than we can find answers to in the text itself. this is due to the sometimes very unclear and vague legal concepts which allow and can allow everything, but also everything in case of doubt. i'm just going to highlight one important point, which is the point that requires cooperation between service providers and rights holders in enforcement. does that mean that, say, warner brothers and the isps are going to become deputy sheriffs? and what would that look like in detail? does that mean that there is and will be a streaming of the internet to detect violations? this is all due to the fact that, for example, the term private use or commercial use is not sufficiently defined and no common definition has been found. i think that is an extremely problematic point, because that is the privatization of law. the commission made a promise yesterday - that has been mentioned - that there will be civil rights impact assessments in new regulations. will you and when will you present this impact assessment on the acta treaty? what can we expect from it and when will we have it in our hands? that is crucial for us to be able to assess this contract.
the commission has already done so. it is, of course, very commendable to try to conclude good international agreements, and i realize that it is not all that simple. but at some point, the time has come when such agreements must be considered: cui bono and who is being harmed? i feel that it benefits a few people who want to earn well, who have little regard for human rights, freedom of information, etc. and some others - many others - do more harm than good. i am not yet clear about the situation with the generics. well, criminal law will not be much, but we know that civil law, especially with high claims for damages, etc., can cause much more damage than criminal law. the question then arises of trademark protection versus designation of origin. we have just had a discussion where we said that designation of origin is becoming more and more important and offers opportunities that trademark protection cannot provide. and yet, now, everything is stiffening on the branding. the use of internet service providers as de facto private police, as has already been mentioned by colleagues, is something i strongly oppose. who's controlling them? there are no disclosure requirements, no data protection, as should be the case with public authorities. and these are all things that give me great concern. i do not know what will happen to these human rights impact assessments, and what the commission will do in particular if the impression is created here in the house that the soup is still too thin and we do not want to agree.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the past, when we looked at the balkans - for example, the problems of kosovo or bosnia - we tended to overlook moldova. the eu should have long ago taken on a mediating role in the conflicts over moldova and its neighbours. in this respect, it is regrettable that moldova has now rejected the eu's offer of mediation in the transnistrian conflict. the fact that moldova has taken the sad place of a poorhouse in europe is not an accident, but the result of the post-socialist economy of chaos that prevails there. the industrialized strip in the eastern regions of moldova, with the support of russia, declared its independence, thus sealing the economic decline of the country, whose economy is based purely on agriculture. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the european union's common foreign and security policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad that there was no european commission in the 15th century. if there had been, mr. columbus and his friends would probably have sailed into the next container and gone down, not come to the united states or america. we know what's causing this problem. we know something has to be done. and what does the commission say? she says there's nothing to do. this is unacceptable. if we know that the fault lies in the wrong storage, if we know that the containers are badly fixed, that they are overloaded and that they fall into the water even when there is no storm, and if we also know that a single country cannot change this with its regulations, who else is going to change anything but the commission, which is responsible for ensuring that this situation is eliminated in european waters. it is not just the environmental damage that we are suffering from. human lives are also at risk. what if smaller ships made of plastic, made of plastic, are ramming these containers in the middle of the atlantic? they're going down. and not only the ships, but the people on them will perish. it's not much fun to be in the middle of the north atlantic for long periods of time wearing a life jacket. that's something we have to consider. that's why i think it's wrong that nothing happens. i believe that the european commission must quickly put in place regulations to put an end to this situation. it's dangerous, it's bad, and you have to do something. i urge the commission to do something because it is responsible for this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for our oceans, the clock is ticking at five minutes to midnight. if we continue to destroy our oceans at this rate, we will ultimately be destroying ourselves, because as we know, 70 percent of our oxygen is produced by marine life. it is not enough as we like to do to protect the environment within the eu, as we know, air and water have no borders. i therefore find it incomprehensible that no clear rules are being made here when rich industrial nations are offloading their environmental problems to the third world. i am not sure that there are any clear rules on the scrapping of ships, which are sent by europe in tonnes of asbestos-contaminated scrap for scrapping in india, bangladesh and pakistan, where entire coastal areas are contaminated. but we get all of that back in the form of contaminated marine life that ends up on our tables through the food chain. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised. one day, one ship, one dead - that's what the shipwrecked workers at alang, india, themselves say about their dangerous job. i also miss clear regulations for deep-sea drilling. in this context, however, i should also like to mention very positively the initiative of commissioner öttinger, who is making efforts to establish or to get a handle on regulations for the safety of drilling platforms. i am missing clear regulations for the busy waterways - the bosporus, for example - where there is still no absolute piloting obligation and where large tankers pass through this strait every day. on the positive side, shipping companies are now taking action on their own in the field of environmental and animal welfare. for example, an italian shipping company has installed a system to prevent collisions with whales. it would therefore be appropriate for the eu to support such positive private initiatives.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take this into account in its future work. but the oceans are not only a major source of food and protein, they are one of the great challenges of our century. their role in the climate system and thus in human health should not be underestimated. the fact that waters regenerate thanks to conservation measures is illustrated by the example of the great barrier reef, where fish populations in protected areas have increased by 30 to 75% in just two years. given that over 40% of the world's population lives within 100 km of a coastline and could therefore be affected by a tsunami, for example, the proposed common european strategy for coastal protection is to be welcomed. however, the existence of different emission limits for eu waters is a barrier to an integrated maritime policy that seeks to take all factors into account. we should be consistent.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. yesterday it didn't work at all, and the planning didn't match what we had in mind. but today it is as it should be, and i hope that in future the planning of the sitting will take this into account, so that sufficient reserve is planned between the end of the debate and the beginning of the votes.
madam president, if we cannot find a majority, then i want to ask the house to move the vote on the resolution to the next meeting in strasbourg. we had a very open discussion yesterday and many of us expressed concerns about some of the developments in ukraine. we will have a debate with the foreign minister next week. we will have an election observation mission. we will have the pcc meeting in kiev and odessa at the beginning of next month. so it would be fair if we have the vote on the resolution immediately after that visit, at the brussels part-session. i hope members can agree to that and support it.
in writing. − the eu has in recent years strengthened its bilateral relations with the industrialised countries and other high-income countries and regions, particularly in north america, east asia, south-east asia and the gulf region. this is primarily to expand and consolidate the eu's role in the world. the list of countries covered by the ici regulation is now to be considerably extended. this is therefore counterbalanced by a significant increase in costs for the european member states. i rejected the report because i expected an overall cost explosion.
in writing. − it is important and right to support the poorest countries with targeted and sustainable development assistance. local self-help assistance is needed to reduce the flow of migrants from developing countries to the eu. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − european consumers have a clear right to be informed about products imported into the eu from third countries. the highest degree of transparency and fairness is required to make objective purchasing decisions. i am in favour of such a project in general, which aims to inform the citizens of the eu about the origin of the raw materials used, the individual production steps, but also the prevailing production, social and working conditions in the country concerned. unfortunately, the commission proposal does not go through with this. a compulsory 'made-in' scheme as it stands does not say anything about the actual origin of a product or the conditions under which it was produced and processed. even well-known european textile companies, despite voluntary self-controls, cannot exclude the use of raw materials obtained from third-country firms in their production. i understand something else by product transparency for consumers. the present proposal does not go far enough and does not meet the information needs of the interested end-users. for these reasons i could not support the commission's proposal.
in writing. − the purpose of the designation of origin is to provide consumers with information to enable them to make informed purchasing decisions. accurate labelling is carried out in a large number of countries. in the past, products advertised as originating in one country were often actually produced in a completely different country. it is particularly easy to cheat on labelling. while more precise labelling is welcome in principle, the present report does not seem to be able to rule out completely the possibility of fraudulent labelling. the procedures are not precise and leave room for interpretation. i cannot therefore agree with the report.
in writing. − while national standardisation organisations form the basis of the european standardisation system, there are significant differences in resources, technical expertise and commitment to shareholders, which are also related to differences between countries. the commission has therefore planned to harmonize and simplify the rules. although smes are always described on paper as the economic backbone of the eu, they are overburdened with a host of bureaucratic procedures. the procedures sought are not suited to take account of inequalities here, but rather favour large companies and multi-companies that can afford expensive and cumbersome bureaucratic approval procedures. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. the report aims at total harmonization of the internal market. while recognising that smes are the backbone of the european economy, the measures envisaged in the report create a difficult environment for small businesses and craft enterprises in particular. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − the resolution on reforms and developments in the republic of moldova makes a very good reference to the association agreement currently being negotiated between the eu and the republic of moldova. it shall contribute to a substantial improvement of the common institutional framework between the eu and the republic of moldova, to the deepening of relations in all areas and to the strengthening of political association and economic integration, taking into account mutual rights and obligations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. this should be done as soon as possible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of the people of the region.
in writing. the resolution calls for visa liberalisation for the republic of moldova. the consequences for the european union would be an increase in migration and crossborder crime. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right of asylum is not jeopardised. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − different emission limits for eu waters are a barrier to an integrated maritime policy which, as announced, aims to take all factors into account. we must not forget underwater nuclear testing. in addition to fishing quotas, no-take zones and aquaculture regulations, particularly in ecologically sensitive regions, solutions will have to be found for soft coastal tourism, military exercises, shipping, oil and gas extraction, sand and gravel extraction, as well as protection measures against environmental disasters such as the recent toxic mudslides. the creation of a european coastguard authority over national coastguards or the navy is incompatible with national sovereignty and increases existing tendencies towards centralisation. the commission's proposal is not a good one, but it is a good one.
in writing. the european union has good economic relations with latin american countries at wto level, but also at bilateral and multilateral level. these trade and economic relations need to be further developed, given the sensitive economic sectors of the eu. i therefore expressly support the amendment tabled on paragraph 30, which states that 'agricultural imports into the eu may only be authorised if they comply with european standards of consumer protection, animal welfare, environmental protection and minimum social standards'. our european farmers must have high production standards and should not be disadvantaged by unequal competition. to be able to cover costs, you need planning and income security. it is also important to take account of this in the context of free trade agreements.
in writing. - latin america has become an emerging economic region in the last few years. trade agreements with countries of the south american continent are welcome. the european union, which has already done important development work, should further strengthen its position as the second most important trading partner, as russia is already doing. however, the eu should also pay attention to the countries with which it trades, as labour exploitation is still the norm in many south american countries. i rejected the report because it does not deal enough with the precarious working conditions in latin america and does not make enough proposals to curb them.
in writing. the rapporteur is in favour of a total opening of trade markets between the eu and latin america. the problems surrounding the mercosur agreement are not sufficiently clarified in the report. i therefore voted against the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am a little surprised because there was an agreement between all the parties to adopt a very carefully prepared resolution during the november ii meeting in strasbourg. but of course it's a good right to change your mind. i just think it would be sensible to wait for the election observers' report first, so that we have that report clearly in hand and can rely on it. and secondly, there is no question that in our view there were problems in this election, some of them serious. we are not the ex-officio defenders, but you, ladies and gentlemen of the epp, are not the ex-officio defenders of the opposition. if you were as critical of the opposition as we are of the government, we would find common ground. i am in favour of looking at things in ukraine objectively and not with partisan glasses. i'm in favour of deciding in november. but if today the majority should be in favour of us being above it today, then i ask and i also call on the epp to try to take a common critical approach to all critical issues and not just to the government.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would also like to thank the council and the commission very warmly for the introductory notes. i would like to concentrate in particular on what mr de gucht said. because we have to recognize that after november 2nd, america has become a different place. it is not that cooperation with the united states has reached its optimum level before, but we are afraid that it will become more difficult. mr de gucht, you mentioned protectionism. i believe that we must act together against protectionism. it may be a short-term solution for some. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you mentioned the energy issues. the commission has today published an energy paper energy 2020 . there are some criticisms, but the basic lines are right. but i can't imagine america will issue a similar paper, similar guidelines. it will be very difficult, and even more difficult after november 2. what you also mentioned - electric mobility, the issue of developing smart grids together with america - we should try. but at the same time, we should say to america: we have other partners. we can also try to develop similar things with china, with brazil, with other countries. the american people need to feel that we don't necessarily need them. we want to do it with them, but they're not the only partners, especially when it comes to climate change. it was certainly the behavior of the americans and the inability of obama to act because of laws that had not yet been passed. now with the majority in congress today, the bill is off the table altogether, so we have to assume that it will be more difficult unless we succeed, for example, in getting china, india and brazil to do certain things on these issues. so we have to be clear about that. i would like to say a few words about the situation in the united kingdom. it is absolutely right and important - also from our point of view - that america finds its way back to budgetary balance. i have no objection to it, on the contrary, it's good that america is trying to create new jobs again, good for america, good for us. but it has to be done in a coordinated way. the americans must therefore get used to accepting greater global coordination, especially with europe, in this area too.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the next few months will show the impact of president obama's domestic weakness, due to his party's relatively weak showing in the last congressional elections. for example, whether protectionist tendencies will increase, which could affect trade and economic policy, or whether obama will turn more to foreign policy areas such as the iran conflict, the middle east or the afghanistan conflict. we'll see about that. this should be of limited interest to europe and the eu in particular, because the eu must be able to define its own priorities and objectives, its own interests. this is particularly true in the field of world politics, where the european union is tempted to become a dwarf. just think of the middle east conflict, where you couldn't even sit at the negotiating table. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the european union's relations with the countries of central and eastern europe. but where closer cooperation with the united states is appropriate, for example to solve the cyprus problem, where the americans could influence their ally turkey, very little is happening. even if obama seems more interested in the pacific than in the atlantic, we must also focus more on eastern europe and the middle east. there is no doubt that greater cooperation or coordination with the united states is also needed in the transatlantic economic council. it is clear that the west - europe and the us - should remain the world leader in research, innovation and development. finally, we should not forget that greater data protection and the respect and protection of citizens' rights should also play an important role at the summit.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in the transatlantic dialogue, we have much in common - these are fundamental values, fundamental rights of freedom and democracy - but there is also something that divides us, namely the application and concretisation of these respective rights in transatlantic relations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's ships is not compromised. we have known for a long time that data protection is a source of constant misunderstanding. the framework agreement will therefore be a very big step forward if we succeed in getting a very good one. we must find a solution here so that citizens on both sides of the atlantic can also assert their rights with each other. a second important point where we have similar fundamentals but very different approaches is climate action. that is why i very much want it to be the subject of discussion and to be discussed openly. the european union must not use the transatlantic dialogue to weaken its own promises and commitments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to the data protection agreement and would point out that all existing agreements should in any case comply with european data protection standards. this applies both to agreements on the transfer of banking data and to the field of passenger name record systems. the commission must not depart from this position in the negotiations on the data protection agreement with the united states. the eu standards must not be equated with those of the usa. we need a single set of protections instead of the current patchwork, and any new single agreement on data exchange must include principles such as purpose limitation, short retention periods and the right of eu citizens to effective remedies against data processing. the eu must not become more and more like the us in its increasingly grotesque profiling systems, feeding the us with personal data of eu citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i refer to the data protection agreement. i am convinced that the current us-eu agreements will need to be reviewed and updated accordingly following the conclusion of a new data protection agreement. that is the real purpose of the agreement now being sought. i see the danger of legal uncertainty in the fact that this is not the case. because the protection of our citizens must be of the utmost priority!
i have to say, madam president, the commission's approach of bringing its cross-sectoral approach to the transfer of passenger data to third countries to the table is to be welcomed, especially before negotiations with third countries begin. this shows that they have learned from the previous methods. as i have already mentioned several times on acta and swift, i have serious concerns about data protection standards. however, this is basically about the handling of data that the authorities want to use, for example, to identify possible accomplices of suspects. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and we'd also provide the names and dates?
in writing. in recent years, fundamental rights have been increasingly curtailed in the name of fighting terrorism. the usefulness of this is often doubtful: while the passenger is virtually searched down to his underpants and is not allowed to have nail files or deo in his luggage, the check of freight is often left to the freight forwarder himself. if this is to change in the future, the balance between freedom and security must be maintained. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules are applied in the member states. equally questionable is whether the fbi is required to know the name, address, e-mail address, credit card number and suitcase number of a person traveling to the united states and to retain that information for up to 15 years. if, for example, in the uk, it is easy to become suspicious in the future - not because of religious affiliation, where there is a proven connection to terrorism - but if you are suspicious of someone who flies at short notice, perhaps without luggage and pays for it in cash, then it is the least that there is a right to complain and sue in general for the transmission of flight data, not only to the usa, and the data is not stored until halloween. and of course, the storage must be limited to the purpose. if fundamental rights are being infringed in order to ensure a sense of security, then the infringement must be as small as possible and the rights of those affected must be strengthened.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. mr president, commissioner barnier and minister reynders, you have been very helpful in this. we have done a great deal of work. jean-paul has said it: 21 trilogues, countless working sessions of the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs from the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on legal affairs. but above all, we have had years of persuasion behind us. the socialist group has been working for years like a tibetan prayer wheel to bring hedge funds, private equity funds and all other financial vehicles under european regulation. on 26 october, the austrian national day of all days, we were able to reach a compromise with the member states. we don't live in an ideal world, so the compromise isn't perfect. but this piece of european legislation is the most important building block of financial market regulation to date. there is now an alternative to the old neoliberal pre-crisis killer argument: "there is no alternative" when it comes to squeezing in and resizing the financial market. i am particularly interested in the following two points: for the first time, there are rules against asset stripping, the reserves of the acquired companies cannot be attacked for two years. and there are rules on the liability of storage facilities which prevent the emergence of long, opaque chains of action. these provisions are minimum standards, which means that anyone who wants to can and should do better. but the regulation of alternative fund managers also offers a new opportunity for a new hedge fund culture. small-volume funds in particular, which have been highly risky businesses, now need to rethink and have the chance to establish themselves with a sustainable business model. the commission must be vigilant and strict in its monitoring of the implementation and operation of the directive and, if necessary, submit the revision earlier than planned. i would like to express my gratitude to mr gauzès, who has been a very constructive partner. i also want to thank udo bullmann and robert goebbels. i would like to point out in particular how much spirit, how much willpower there was on the part of the commission and the council to finally arrive at a constructive solution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to stand before the electorate and say: yes, something great has been achieved. yes, we have finally made the breakthrough where we need clear rules - quite unlike my predecessor - from the point of view of the vast majority of europeans. but unfortunately, another great opportunity has been missed. if you, commissioner, are already talking about the need for a revision of the directive sooner than planned, if various speakers are now saying: 'yes, the council, the council, the council! but we in parliament are on the right side, so i ask: why not say no tomorrow? why do we allow that we continue to have an emmental cheese in the european aifm structure precisely through this passive commercialisation? why not stick to the much-vaunted dictum of the german chancellor: 'no product, no participant, no institution can remain unregulated'? how is it that we have had to witness here in this parliament that, in response to what is being rejected tomorrow, we have for the first time across the board - many members from many groups - said that we need independent expertise, we need financewatch.org? we're at the mercy of the lobbyists. why do we not have the courage tomorrow to express by a 'no' what we have started with, what we can achieve? why are we letting down the very people we're supposed to be representing, again? private equity, undermining companies. i think that is very, very shameful and it will do more harm than good to europe and to the european idea, which i hold dear.
i have to say, madam president, the hedge fund rule is not a consequence of the crisis. the hedge fund regime closes a regulatory gap. we are taking another step towards the europeanisation of the internal financial market. what's the matter? we register and authorize all funds. we are creating a minimum capital requirement of eur 125 000. the european financial supervisory authority is the supervisory body. our principle of transparency applies to the investment strategy, the investment policy, the disbursement arrangements and the delegations. the idea of the internal market is implemented by the passport. there is no eu passport for funds investing more than 30% outside the eu. the bonus system we have introduced for bank managers will also be applied to hedge fund managers to ensure sustainability and to minimise risk. a good result!
in writing. the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the programme. the fact is that the single market act is a revolution, the most concrete programme of work of this commission. it is the third major project after the introduction of the euro and eu enlargement. we need more dynamism, more determination, more courage, more european spirit to be able to implement the 50 measures. the single market must become the home market of 500 million people, because it is our potential for growth, employment and competitiveness. there's a lot of treasure to be found. the internal market also makes the so-called net contributors, such as austria and germany, major net contributors. harnessing the potential means removing the shackles of the single market, overcoming protectionism and nationalism which seek to conceive of the eu as a continent. whether this succeeds depends primarily on us politicians. let's get to work!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. tomorrow the g20 summit begins in seoul. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. china controls 95% of the extraction of rare earths, which are urgently needed by european industries. the main sectors affected are knowledge-intensive industries, which are concerned with the development of new technologies. it is a major problem that european smes are seriously endangered by artificial supply bottlenecks. the european economic area is known worldwide for its technological know-how. it is unacceptable to accept cuts here. i therefore call on the representatives of the european union to join other affected countries such as the united states and japan in speaking out clearly at the g20 summit against china's arbitrariness in trade. a solution must be found as soon as possible.
in writing. the mann report clearly identifies problems which we should be more aware of. the european population structure is currently undergoing profound changes. the birth rate in the eu is currently 1.5 children per woman. we must take this fact into account in our policy. on the one hand, the importance of training and jobs for young people should be addressed. the call for a european youth guarantee, which would provide young people with a job, apprenticeship or other training opportunity after a period of unemployment of up to four months, is an interesting proposal which should be studied in more depth. on the other hand, the importance of 'active ageing' and generational justice must be emphasised. this is something that must be done in future. i support the report by mr mann.
in writing. in today's knowledge society, know-how is playing a central role, particularly in the wake of the greatest economic crisis in recent history. research, development and innovation are of the utmost importance to maintain europe's position as a global player in the economy and its competitiveness. european initiatives to provide public funding for research programmes are still too bureaucratic and administrative. simplification of the seventh framework programme for research (fp7), currently the largest public funding programme for research and technological development, is therefore urgently needed to provide sufficient incentives for science-oriented research. research funding should increase the confidence and risk tolerance of participants, so that projects with a higher risk potential continue to be attractive and to pursue research at the frontiers of knowledge.
i have to say, madam president, it is true: the error rate in the cohesion area has decreased significantly from 54% in 2007 to 36% in 2009. yes, that's right. that is a fact, and i must admit it. but as the rapporteur has already said, if you look at the way in which these figures were produced, you will of course have to put them in perspective. it is also a fact that, according to this court of auditors report, the control systems in the field of cohesion are not effective. it is also a fact that at least 3% of the funds should not have been disbursed. this means that there is still a long way to go, including for commissioner hahn, to bring order to this department. the increase in error rates in agriculture is clearly a step backwards for me. because, moreover, waste, for example, that mining subsidies are paid out to billionaires, are not considered as mistakes. i have already raised this in committee: i have not received a reply from the court of auditors or the commission on the double payment of social benefits. so again, my question is, who made the mistakes here? will these funds be repaid and what is the amount involved? in conclusion, i would like to stress that in future it would be important for the court of auditors to examine not only the legality of expenditure but also its economic viability and efficiency.
i have to say, madam president, the european court of auditors estimates that €6 million of the eu budget was lost to dark channels in 2009. sloth, mismanagement, fraud, ignorance and also lack of control. the court of auditors also found scandals among eu officials, where some 40% receive double family allowances. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and when i think of the forested areas for which they have allowed green space premiums to flourish, that is more than brazen. the situation is particularly bad, of course, with regard to regional aid. if, as the previous speaker has already pointed out, 36% of the checked performances can be regarded as defective performances, it is still bad enough. i would therefore appeal to commissioner hahn to finally intervene in his very important area. we don't have any money to give away. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. politics is in the hands of the legislators and the executives.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the court of auditors very much. this report is a striking illustration of the improvement in controls. i am not necessarily always alarmed by the error rates shown, because i believe that auditing is also a learning system. the problem is being looked at more and more closely and, thank god, more and more errors are being discovered. the task will be to avoid these mistakes together in the future. i would therefore like to draw attention once again to the fifth cohesion report presented yesterday. the commission invites all interested parties to comment on the issues raised in this communication. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would therefore urge all the parties concerned to heed the commission's call. we in parliament will do that, of course.
in writing. the livestock sector is problematic for european farmers in many ways: rising prices of inputs, competitive pressure from imports from third countries, highly volatile feed prices, relatively low prices the farmer gets for selling meat. sustainable animal husbandry policy must take account of all stakeholders, i.e. farmers, consumers and farm animals! the aim must be to move away from mass animal husbandry and return to a natural, respectful approach to our farm animals on small farms. the whole thing combined with the greatest possible safety for the consumer through complete animal health services, clear labelling of all animal foodstuffs, especially by origin and type of animal husbandry. the eu, for its part, must create the conditions for the future of our farmers: to remain internationally competitive and thus viable, despite the highest animal husbandry standards in the world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too, like my group, welcome the fact that the citizens of taiwan are now free to travel to the european union. but as far as i know, not a single eu country has recognised taiwan. i am not against it, however, and i think it is good that taiwanese citizens can enter the eu without a visa. but what about europe's youngest state, kosovo? twenty-two eu countries have recognised kosovo, only five have not, and yet visa dialogue with kosovo has not even begun. the commission has not yet started this. i hope that commissioner malmström will finally start the visa dialogue with kosovo, so that it is clear that the citizens of the youngest european state can travel as freely as the citizens of taiwan.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) has recently proven itself on several occasions as a useful tool to combat the unemployment that is a constant concomitant of globalisation. the egf may finance job creation measures, retraining programmes and workshops to empower entrepreneurs. for these and other reasons, i support mrs matera's report wholeheartedly. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. the european union must give priority to helping its citizens. we must always be aware of this.
in writing. − the egf has an annual budget of eur 500 million and is designed to help workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. it is estimated that between 35,000 and 50,000 workers could benefit from this every year. the money will be used to support measures to help people find work, individual training, self-employment and business creation, mobility grants and aid for disadvantaged or older workers. in order to be eligible for aid, a company must have laid off at least 500 workers within a four-month period. the irish company sr technics ireland ltd. could be allowed to draw on the funds, as it was responsible for 1 135 redundancies. i agree with the report because all the conditions for aid to the irish company sr technics ireland are met.
in writing. - the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund would affect or help to save 1135 jobs in the case of the irish airline sr-technics. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the polish citizen and member of the european parliament, krysztof lisek, is accused by the district prosecutor's office in koszalin (poland) of having broken the law in three cases. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. in order to be able to pursue the matter against the member under polish law, a request for waiver of his immunity was made. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality to the principle of equal treatment for men and women. i am voting for the waiver of immunity because, firstly, it is in the interests of mr krysztof lisek and, secondly, it is the only way for him to face the charges in his own country.
in writing. − investment funds are involved in the european economy by raising capital. the systemic risks inherent in different types of funds, such as private equity funds, real estate funds, commodity funds, etc., are different. in the context of the tightening of regulation in the financial sector as a result of the banking and financial crisis, it is necessary to cover all financial instruments. on the one hand, the risk of loss must be reduced to a certain extent and the potential for management error must be minimised, on the other hand, unnecessary bureaucracy must not be created. it is also important to find a regulation for short selling, as this also played a role in the financial crisis. i have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − alternative investment fund managers, with assets under management of around usd 1 trillion, play an important role in raising capital for the european economy. it covers a range of different actors and financial products such as alternative funds, private equity funds and real estate funds. in particular, the specific systemic risks of private equity funds need to be addressed. in this context, their administration should not be exempted from the necessary regulation of the entire financial services sector. the current financial crisis has shown that the weaknesses in the global financial system have been caused by excessive risk of loss to systemically important market participants and by inadequate management of those risks. the aim of the commission proposal or report is to stabilise the financial system and to improve investor protection. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - we cannot avoid an individual examination of visas from third countries with a visa requirement. unfortunately, there have been a number of visa sales in the past, and these scandals must be dealt with, as must the observance of the schengen rules. the principle of reciprocity should apply particularly to visa requirements, as the example of the united states, which is accustomed to openly using the visa requirement as a means of intimidation in negotiations, shows. a distinction must also be made between the individual third countries. taiwan is such a special case. to date, the country has enjoyed relatively positive economic growth, which the eu considers to be a low risk of illegal immigration. but i cannot support the idea of treating as non-citizens in taiwan those who do not have official documents. that is why i do not approve of the report.
in writing. − research and development are essential components of healthy economic growth and are essential for the eu's objectives, such as climate change or energy efficiency. this is one of the reasons why research and innovation have been placed at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy. on the one hand, it is important that there are clear rules on support which exclude abuse to the greatest possible extent, and on the other hand, the controls must not lead to the indirect exclusion of small organisations and smes due to the complexity of support. the aid schemes under these ceilings must therefore be reviewed every few years and, where possible, simplified. the proposed revision cannot do justice to this, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. the resolution contains some positive points where the eu should try to assert its position, such as in the fight against the global economic and financial crisis, or in the areas of transport and industry. on the other hand, i still see some shortcomings in this motion for a resolution on foreign and security policy, particularly in the fight against international terrorism. i therefore abstained.
in writing. - in recent years, fundamental rights have been increasingly curtailed in the name of the alleged fight against terrorism. the usefulness of this is more than doubtful: while the passenger is virtually searched down to his underpants and is not allowed to have nail files or deo in his luggage, the check of cargo is often left to the freight forwarder himself. if this is to change in the future, the balance between freedom and security must be maintained. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules are applied in the member states. equally questionable is whether the fbi is required to know the name, address, e-mail address, credit card number and suitcase number of a person traveling to the united states and to retain that information for up to 15 years. storage should only be necessary in very rare exceptional cases. if fundamental rights are being infringed in order to ensure a sense of security, then the infringement must be as small as possible and the rights of those affected must be strengthened. i am sorry to say that this is not to be expected at the moment, so i voted against the motion.
in writing. − the analysis and processing of passenger name records (pnr) can certainly be used at international level to combat terrorism and organised crime. however, such agreements are often problematic in terms of data protection: the european parliament must therefore also, on this issue (similar to swift), consistently protect the fundamental rights of eu citizens! there are currently a number of arrangements for the transfer of pnr to third countries with which the eu has concluded agreements. the more countries that require this data, the greater the risk that the different systems will have negative effects: on legal certainty, on the protection of personal data and on the costs for airlines. the eu must therefore set high, uniform safety standards to ensure a coherent approach in the future! this is what i expect from an efficient eu external strategy on pnr transfers! the resolution does not provide sufficient safeguards for this, and i would therefore have voted against it.
in writing. − on 21 september 2010, the european commission presented its cross-sectoral approach to the transfer of passenger name records (pnr) to third countries. the purpose of the transmission and processing of data such as ticket information, seat number, baggage information, itinerary and payment method is the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorist offences, in the framework of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. this 'intersectoral approach' is intended to serve as a guide for future negotiations with third countries - the united states, canada and australia are expected to enter into negotiations soon, and other countries have expressed their intention to do so. the ep resolution reaffirms the importance of the principle of proportionality. the delicate balance between the needs of security and freedom. the commission is invited to demonstrate the specific need for the collection, storage and processing of pnr data for each of the objectives mentioned and to adequately consider any alternatives. the ep's position is that under no circumstances should passenger data be used for the purpose of targeted data extraction or the creation of personal profiles.
in writing. − the innovation union is an innovation strategy driven at the highest political level. it is one of the flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy. the idea is to address future challenges such as climate change, energy and food security, health and population ageing in a meaningful way and to take them to a transnational level. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. i am voting for the resolution because a common approach such as that of the innovative partnerships will bring benefits to each member state.
in writing. − the advantage of the new concept of innovative partnerships is that there are clearly defined areas of activity and responsibilities for the partners involved. the commission will also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission. a simplified administrative procedure is also applied for project implementation and for optimising the dissemination of research results. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted for this report because the innovation union initiative is a concrete step towards an integrated european innovation policy. the first proposed theme for a european innovation partnership is aptly 'active and healthy ageing', with the emphasis on improving the quality of life and achieving social networking of the public sector. the results of this pilot project will determine whether further such initiatives are launched. the resolution adopted today already contains proposals with a high added value potential: 'smart cities' - with emphasis on improving the efficiency and management of energy, transport and infrastructure, and 'raw materials' - security of supply, including sustainable extraction & processing, recycling and substitution. the european parliament also wanted to play its part in the successful implementation of this promising initiative and therefore invited the commission not only to report on the progress of the pilot project but also to consider how parliament could be involved in defining the strategic direction of future partnerships.
in writing. - the osce, which was founded during the cold war as a monitoring and confidence-building institution, has been in a crisis of meaning for some years now. critics say the organization has failed to meet the demands of the 21st century, such as the global financial crisis and environmental issues such as climate change. theoretically, there are three major players in the osce, namely the us, russia and the eu. although there has been some improvement under the new president, there is little interest in multilateral organizations in american foreign policy. the interest of russia, which regards the enlargement of the eu and nato, among other things, as an encroachment on its historical sphere of influence, seems to be equally low. it is only too understandable that moscow is calling for a reorientation of the osce and a shift of focus from human rights and democratisation to a european security structure. russia is essential to the eu not only as an energy supplier but also as a strategic partner. so if the eu wants to change its role in the osce, it must evolve from a silent paymaster to a counter-polar to the us. in the end, a sensible approach will be necessary not only with regard to russia but also with regard to all eurasian states which are represented in the osce but are not members of the eu. i voted in favour of this report because it is very well-referred to.
in writing. − the three dimensions of the osce need to be balanced, and in any case, threats to security must be taken seriously in all three dimensions. this includes current measures such as organised crime, terrorism, cyber threats, trafficking in human beings and drugs, energy security, and measures related to early warning systems and conflict prevention and management. strengthening cooperation and promoting synergies between the eu and the osce is both useful and beneficial. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given a role in the development of the osce, and for the osce to be given a role in the development of the osce, and for the eu to be given a role in the development of the osce. if we want to avoid military intervention in a crisis, we must take preventive political action in good time.
in writing. - article 24: allowing older workers to continue their employment beyond the mandatory retirement age at their own request must not create a pressure situation for older workers which would lead to a widespread practice of employment beyond the mandatory retirement age. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the pension scheme is not discriminatory.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on demographic challenges, but against the paragraph which calls on the member states to 'concern themselves with the regulated migration of labour from third countries to the eu'. this formulation, in my view, indirectly contains a positive assessment of labour migration from third countries. i voted for the mann report because the recommendation to amend the financing of pension schemes in the original report was not adopted by the european parliament. however, i am clearly against the demand that private pension schemes should be encouraged and that pensions in the public sector should in future not be on average higher than comparable pensions in the private sector. i am also opposed to private pension funds playing a more important role in reducing the future burden of public pension provision. in my opinion, the levy system is the most economically sound and sustainable system.
in writing. − the european union is facing a significant ageing population. in 2060 there will be only two people of working age for every person over 65; today, the ratio is 1 to 4. the older generation could thus become a major burden on the working and economically active population. as the retirement age is likely to increase, working conditions should be adapted and made more attractive for older target groups. older workers should be given better opportunities to participate in the labour market. a change of mind would also have to take place in society, by eliminating prejudices such as lower performance. i shall abstain, because while the proposals on healthy ageing are welcome, there are still some uncertainties about the extension of working time which need to be cleared up.
in writing. - our population is shrinking, with the result that we are ageing and putting a strain on our pension systems. the demographic challenges of the future require a consistent family-friendly policy, but uncontrolled mass immigration to the eu is the wrong way to go. i therefore abstained.
in writing. - i have agreed to the report on demographic challenges and solidarity between generations because the recommendation to amend the financing of pension systems in the original report was not adopted by the european parliament. i am clearly opposed to the demand that private pension schemes should be encouraged and that public sector pensions should not be higher than comparable private sector pensions in terms of both contributions and benefits in the future; in addition, private pension funds should not play a more important role in reducing the future burden of public pension provision. the system of levies is not to be replaced by capital-backed systems. in my opinion, the levy system is the most economically sound and sustainable system. however, i voted against the part of the resolution which calls on the member states to 'think about the regulated labour migration from third countries to the eu'. i think that this formulation already indirectly contains a positive assessment of labour migration from third countries.
in writing. − to help boost the economy, during the financial crisis that turned into an economic crisis, four to five billion euro from the eu budget was diverted to energy projects from other funding categories that had not been used up. as announced by the commission in its presentation of the energy strategy 2020, a trillion euros of investment is needed over the next few years to expand europe's outdated electricity grid. it is expected that it will be the consumer, not the energy sector, who will have to bear the costs. energy research will be particularly important in this respect, provided that the focus is on technologies which are actually cheaper. the focus on nuclear power, which is not cost-effective in the face of expensive, unresolved final storage, in addition to potential environmental disasters, must be stopped. the focus should be on green technology. i voted for the report.
in writing. the report aims to simplify procedures and reduce costs. the commission will also provide incentives for greater involvement of the private sector. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i am disappointed that amendments nos 1 and 2 have been adopted by a majority in the european parliament. despite a planned interruption of supplies, we must not allow our agriculture to be contaminated with gmos! acceptance of unauthorised gmos or setting a threshold 'for accidentally occurring gmos not yet authorised in the eu' - and not yet subject to conclusive scientific testing - would result in a flood of gmo authorisations in the us and especially in developing countries, with an increased risk of health and environmental concern, particularly under the conditions of testing capacity in such countries. this would mean that non-eu countries would increasingly influence the eu's authorisation practice and thus impose an ever lower level of safety of the authorised gmos in terms of health and the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this would not only increase the risk potential of genetic engineering in agriculture, but also increase the risk potential for the recurrence of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (bse). but overall i think this report is useful in pointing out the crisis in the eu livestock sector.
in writing. - the situation in the animal sector is currently very tense, partly unprofitable, due to the high cost of production. on the one hand, farmers have to put up with low consumer prices, on the other hand, they are faced with strong fluctuations in feed prices. a serious crisis in the livestock sector must be averted by making immediate use of the existing instruments for stabilising the market. another factor affecting european farmers is the increasing competition with low-cost producing third countries and the increasing tendency in trade policy to exchange greater quantities of food imports for services without requiring at least the same production standards. i support the resolution calling for concrete measures for the livestock sector and i thank mrs herranz for the initiative. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive on the carriage of goods by road.
in writing. − it is not only rising production costs that have brought the livestock sector into crisis. the modern society demands healthy food, high standards of hygiene and animal welfare, as is the case in small farms and organic farms, which sometimes increase production costs, while at the same time the cheapest product is taken back to the shelf. while domestic farmers produce under strict conditions, they are difficult to control with cheap agricultural imports. that is why fair prices and a change in agricultural subsidies are important, away from support for multinational agricultural groups and large-scale hobby farmers like the queen, towards small farmers who can only survive on their agricultural economy as a side business. the report does not take enough account of this problem, which is why i abstained.
i have to say, madam president, i wanted to ask mr klute how his proposal on the pan-european government bonds and eurobonds can be reconciled with the position of the german federal constitutional court on similar issues, and how he thinks this would end if such a measure were to be challenged before the federal constitutional court in karlsruhe.
i have to say, madam president, it would be desirable to make a reservation to the present report by mr balz, namely a reservation to the memoir. i think we can learn a lot more if you, mr president trichet, would actually present the chapters on 2008-2009 from your point of view. so what we're doing here is kind of a foggy ride, where we don't know a lot of the boundary conditions and there's a lot of evidence that we don't know them at the moment. nevertheless, mr trichet, you have stated that the longer-term financing measures have been extended again. i guess i'm good. history will tell if it was really good. you don't have to point the finger at alan greenspan all the time. the only thing that is worrying is that the public simply does not know what these liquidity grants are actually used for, and even now the intrusion, as many see it, of the irish under this bailout is very opaque. we know that 130 billion has already flowed to ireland, 35 billion of which to a subsidiary of a german company, the hyporeal estate. but why is there so much pressure now, why are we not able to say who the real creditors are at the irish banks? is it my life insurance policy with the alliance? are these really the german banks, as they are so massively called? if so, are we not having the wrong debate? we need to be honest with the people, to say, these are the people we're bailing out, and it may be your own invested money that you have mistakenly flowed into ireland, into a shaky banking world. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking system in ireland is not affected by the crisis. why don't we have the courage to actually go bankrupt? it can't always be the answer, leman brothers. we need a fairer distribution of risks, because the profits before that were very private.
in writing. for most eu member states, or third countries with internationally interconnected markets, vat (or vat) is one of the main sources of government funding. the vat is thus at least on a par with direct taxes. the maintenance of the standard rate of taxation at at least 15% for the next five years is in the interests of competition in the internal market and legal certainty for entrepreneurs. the reduced vat rates in the eu: the commission must also ensure that reduced vat rates for certain services, such as repairs, hairdressing or cosmetics, do not distort competition. such tax reliefs affect, for example, austrian small businesses which cannot compete with slovak or hungarian service providers. conclusion: yes to the targeted promotion of smes, including through the vat, but at the same time avoiding distortions of competition between member states!
i have to say, madam president, the patient's well-being is at the center. to ensure that they are properly protected, drug companies often list every minor side effect in the package insert, which of course complicates matters. complicated patients tend to change the dose arbitrarily and also discontinue the medication. the flood of more or less reliable information on the internet is also a major contributor to confusion and uncertainty. certified websites are a step in the right direction, but they are not enough. the priority is also to make the information understandable, even without medical or pharmaceutical training. the enclosure must be legible and recognisable. the font size should be increased, especially for older people. unfortunately, the high level of protection afforded to the european pharmaceutical sector is being exploited in third countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. commissioner dalli himself said at his hearing that we must be patient-oriented. the commission's original proposal was more market-oriented, but now, with a whole series of amendments adopted by a large majority, it has succeeded in putting people first and thus taking into account the efforts of commissioner dalli. the right of patients to high-quality, non-commercial information on the benefits and risks of prescription medicines was urgently needed. we need this regulation. i come from an advertising background myself - i'm an advertising professional and a public relations professional - and i know that advertising has one purpose: to sell. but we have a duty to inform. i believe that this report and the amendments it contains can take account of our responsibility to inform. i would ask you, commissioner, since the cost of medicines accounts for a large part of the cost of health care, to ensure that patients are well informed and to continue to focus and follow up your efforts to prevent and promote health. together we will succeed there too.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think it is a small step, but at least it is a step in the right direction. the amendment at least means that all with all the exceptions are covered. i think that is also very important as a guideline for the economy. but what is particularly important to me in this directive is the information of the consumer. i believe it will continue to be very important in the future that consumers know what potential environmental toxins they are carrying with them when they buy an electronic or electrical item. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is up to the commission and the member states to provide this information now, because a transitional period of eight years is a very, very long period.
in writing. the revision of the directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment presents a particular challenge. however, a revision is urgently needed to address the uncertainties in scope, the lack of clarity of legal provisions and definitions, differences between member states and potential procedural overlaps with other eu legislation such as reach. the commission's original proposal was too much geared to large companies. the economic capacity of smes is given greater consideration in the current version, as smes are the backbone of european competitiveness. the procedure for granting derogations and the time limits for the commission to take a decision were also clearly defined. the commission has also proposed that the directive be revised within 10 years to ensure that it is adapted to technological progress. in particular, the availability and reliability of substitution products and socioeconomic impacts must be taken into account.
i have to say, madam president, i too would like to say a few words on the subject of ireland. spiegel online writes: "the celtic tiger has now become a nursing case". but why did he become a foster child? the roots of the financial crisis are certainly in the monetary system, in the way money is created. here, private commercial banks are pumping vast amounts of money into the system. this fuels speculation, which fuels inflation, and ultimately leads to massive indebtedness for those involved. so we have a systemic crisis, and we are not going to solve it by pouring billions into a rotten banking system, even if it goes the way of the irish budgets. what we need is a real form of the money-making system. we need to put money-making back in the public domain. we could thus re-infuse billions of dollars into european budgets, and public money creation would also be compatible with a free market economy. but for decisions of this magnitude, it takes political courage, it takes political strength. and we certainly cannot allow the banks to drag us along on a leash through parliament.
i have to say, madam president, i also think that the dual media system here in europe can certainly be a successful system and that it is important that we have public broadcasters on the one hand and private broadcasters on the other in a free market economy, in free competition. but the reality is a little different. we see, particularly in the private sector, that there is a massive tendency to monopolize. we need to counter here. the reason why this trend is so dangerous is that it is occurring in times of great economic distress. on the other hand, we have public service broadcasters which do not really carry out their public service mission, where the party apparatus and party secretariats determine the subject and content of editorial contributions. of course, it can't work like that. i can only say that the orf in austria, for example, is acting like a civil service, but certainly not in the economic sense. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the media are not subject to restrictions. what can the european union do about it? i think that the early warning system for the detection of monopolies, which has also been introduced here in the european parliament, is certainly a good approach to this.
i have to say, madam president, the mixing of civil and military instruments is already in place. for example, if you look at the situation centre, which has been in the council for a long time. there's been a mix of military and civilian intelligence here. the location center is now going to the external action service. i think it should be stressed above all that the european union has made a name for itself abroad through its civilian instruments, and for this the european union has been recognized. i think we should make a clear distinction between military and civilian instruments. but the reason i wanted to say something else now is mainly because the honourable member has already mentioned it. and i would like to stress once again, what concerns me very, very much, is that the hungarian jobbik party in burgenland, for example, has marched into our country in austria with carabiners and bayoneted bayonets. i don't think that's acceptable in any form. and i want to make it very clear that i am against this kind of action being taken here. this is certainly not in the interests of european thought. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty)).
i have to say, madam president, i never claimed that the jobbik party violated any criminal law relevant content. i did say that there was a targeted raid in burgenland with rifles and bayonets. you did not object to that.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and not just until 2014, but beyond. it is our duty to protect the people of the union from the many negative effects of globalisation. this includes allowing workers in sectors which are not fully competitive on the world market to undergo slow retraining to other occupations. it doesn't take a mining expert to know that mining is a very specific type of workforce. many miners work in the field all their lives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for older miners, retraining is probably no longer a sensible option. we must enable the mining regions to move away from the mining industry without suffering a great loss of wealth. these regions still have great economic potential if they are given the opportunity to restructure their economies. the drastic reduction in the production of coal mines in recent years has put a strain on many mining regions. many areas have not been able to adapt quickly enough to the changing economic conditions and are impoverished because of their strong links with the mining industry. it doesn't have to be. we could save many areas of europe from major economic and social damage and must therefore vote in favour of these arrangements.
in writing. - in recent years, environmental disasters have increased. in particular, heavy rains are increasingly turning into floods, with devastating environmental consequences and horrific financial losses. the european solidarity fund will be mobilised to help repair the damage caused by the 2009 floods in ireland (to agriculture, housing, businesses, roads and other infrastructure). the total damage directly caused by the disaster is estimated at well over eur 520 million. the 13 million from the eu budget is intended to help with reconstruction. i voted for this support.
in writing. − the use of the egf would benefit 70 different companies and save 821 jobs. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - workers are being laid off as a result of globalisation. in the nine-month reference period from 1 april 2009 to 29 december 2009, 140 redundancies occurred in two enterprises in the dutch region of drenthe. the european globalisation adjustment fund is now being asked to provide a total of eur 453 632. i am voting in favour of the report because it is the way in which the egf is fulfilling its obligations.
in writing. − the egf would benefit 2 different companies and 140 jobs would be saved. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − workers and employees are repeatedly disconnected from their professional lives by the far-reaching effects of globalisation. dismissals are not uncommon these days. for example, in limburg, the netherlands, 129 workers were made redundant by a machine and equipment manufacturer between 1 april and 29 december 2009. the european globalisation adjustment fund has now been asked to provide €549,946 to help those affected. i am voting for the report to protect those affected from further financial problems.
in writing. − the egf has helped to save 129 jobs in 9 different companies. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − in the nine-month reference period from 1 april 2009 to 29 december 2009, 650 workers were made redundant in 45 enterprises in the two dutch regions of gelderland and overijssel. the reasons for this were not only the consequences of the economic crisis but also structural changes in the structure of world trade. in order to accommodate the dismissed, the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up, with eur 500 million available annually to deal with such cases. i am voting in favour of the report because the people who are made redundant should be given support by the egf.
in writing. − the egf has helped to save 650 jobs in 45 different companies. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the use of the egf would benefit 79 different enterprises and save 720 jobs. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − 598 redundancies were recorded in a nine-month reference period from 1 april 2009 to 29 december 2009 in a total of eight enterprises in noord holland and zuid holland. every single one of these workers has been a victim of globalization. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to tackle this social injustice. i am voting in favour of the report because all the conditions for its adoption are met.
in writing. − the egf would benefit 8 different companies and save 598 jobs. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the egf has an annual budget of eur 500 million and is designed to help workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. it is estimated that between 35 000 and 50 000 workers could benefit from this every year. the money will be used to support measures to help people find work, individual training, self-employment and business creation, mobility grants and aid for disadvantaged or older workers. i am voting for the report because the use of the funds is quite justified.
in writing. − the package of six dutch motions to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund was approved. i have of course also agreed to the dutch requests, because it is now a question of rapid assistance to unemployed citizens of a member state, in the spirit of the egf. however, i gave my consent to these six motions rather reluctantly - this in the light of the massive blockade and refusal of the dutch government during the budget negotiations in brussels on monday last week. it is not at all appropriate, in my view, for parliament to be 'concretely' refused a serious debate on participation in the future financial framework and at the same time to demand approval of financial assistance in the netherlands.
in writing. the german spirits monopoly is about to expire. the farmers concerned have prepared for the opening of the market. the aid was not fully used, and measures such as the creation of cooperatives and changes in direct marketing were taken to open up the market. but such measures take time. the scheme does not affect large companies, but many small farmers in rural areas. that is why i am in favour of extending the scheme.
in writing. - whether and how the german spirits monopoly will be maintained or changed has an impact primarily on small and medium-sized enterprises. the eu has repeatedly pledged to support smes, as the main engine of the economy and the main employer. in this context, legal certainty is necessary, which is why the monopoly must be extended for a longer period. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the financing of the common agricultural policy. of course, the monopoly issue could also have been combined with the expiry of the cap or the new rules from 2013. however, there were no compelling reasons for this. it is important that the adjustment process is designed in such a way that the distilleries can survive if the monopoly is abolished. i agree with the rapporteur on this point. i cannot agree, however, with the internal procedure which does not sufficiently meet the requirements of transparency and democracy. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − under a wto agreement, the eu, the us, japan, canada, switzerland, norway and macau in china agreed not to impose duties on certain pharmaceutical products or active substances. naturally, this list is constantly being updated and expanded to keep pace with research and the latest pharmaceutical developments. the list, which is drawn up by industry and reviewed by the states, is to increase from the initial 6 000 to over 8 600 pharmaceutical and chemical products, which are subject to zero duty rates. in principle, zero duty rates on pharmaceutical and chemical products or active substances should be justified. the whole system, however, seems to be quite complicated and will probably involve a great deal of bureaucratic work at customs. a gradual enlargement, this time by a good third, will eventually push customs systems to the limits of their data capacity. i therefore call for a simplification of the underlying principle and have therefore abstained.
in writing. - in our modern world, with the short-lived nature of technological achievements, facilitating cooperation in the scientific and technical fields is of mutual benefit. the extension of the agreement seems to bring economic and social benefits to both sides and is in the interest of the european community. the costs arising from the implementation of the agreement, such as costs for workshops, seminars, meetings, etc., shall be charged to the respective budget lines of the specific programmes of the eu budget. it is precisely in order to promote technical progress in the face of competition in a globalised world and in view of the benefits that technological developments bring not only in everyday life but also in areas such as medicine that i support the extension of the agreement on scientific and technical cooperation with ukraine.
in writing. − the european union has set itself ambitious technological targets, not just in the framework of the lisbon strategy. these objectives have now been confirmed in the plan for the next few years, the europe 2020 strategy. this makes it all the more important to work together in the field of science and technology. in this sense, it is also welcome that a number of agreements have been concluded with countries to promote this cooperation, for example in the form of workshops, meetings or seminars. this is such an important issue for the eu that it has been made possible to fund it under the seventh framework programme for research, technological development and demonstration. the agreement with the faroe islands, a group of islands in the north atlantic, is now to be extended, since, unlike denmark, they are not members of the european union and do not participate in the customs union, but form an economic union with iceland. in the interests of promoting technical progress, i shall vote in favour of extending the agreement on scientific and technical cooperation with the faeroe islands.
in writing. - japan is considered a model of technological development. whether it's hybrid powertrains or the entertainment industry, japanese technology is striving to be the latest. the country is not only known for its exports, but also for the high value that technology places on its citizens. so they're already paying with their cell phones, wiretaps are in place. the shortage of supply of so-called rare earths, which are in part indispensable for the electronic components of modern technology, and the chinese strategy of keeping them artificially scarce or expensive, will drive the search for alternatives. it is not only in this context that cooperation in the technological and scientific fields and the extension of the agreement on these matters should be encouraged. the lisbon and europe 2020 objectives also play a role, as the european union has set itself ambitious targets in the field of technology.
in writing. − although the environmental problem is overshadowed by the middle east conflict, there is a foreseeable future need for technology in these regions. the drinking water strategy of jordan and israel is gradually leading to a reduction in the river's flow and an increase in water pollution. in this context, technological developments and achievements, such as in the field of drinking water treatment plants or sewage treatment plants, will be in high demand in the coming years. in order to enable exchanges of experience and to lay the foundations for new technological developments, scientific and technical cooperation is important. i therefore voted in favour of extending the agreement with the kingdom of jordan.
in writing. − bilateral fisheries agreements between the european union and third countries are of considerable economic benefit to the eu. a new agreement between the union and the solomon islands is currently being negotiated. the new agreement is hampered by higher shipping charges, lower profitability for the eu than other tuna fisheries agreements, and the same eu benefits in exchange for lower catch quotas. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i shall abstain because the positive benefits for the eu in relation to the costs are not sufficiently clear.
in writing. - minimum rates are part of the efforts to harmonise european tax rates. such efforts must be rejected. on the one hand, this could be an attempt to introduce tax sovereignty for the eu itself through the back door, and on the other hand, such arrangements encroach on the sovereignty of the member states. the competence to set tax rates must be left to the member states, since each country must decide for itself what priorities it sets, since this also depends on the extent to which public expenditure is set for which areas. all this is also an expression of the historical developments in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. i am therefore absolutely opposed to the idea of extending the mandatory collection of the standard vat rate of at least 15% for another five years. the eu should focus on cooperation in the area of tax fraud, where billions of dollars in damage is caused, particularly in the area of vat systems. here are some approaches that should be discussed in a meaningful way.
in writing. − the annual report of the european central bank focuses on the ecb's response to the financial and economic crisis: the ecb reacted swiftly and successfully. it has reduced the liquidity bottlenecks in the markets by a series of exceptional measures, which must now be carefully and gradually reduced, since 'exceptional measures' should not by definition become the rule. the institutions and - now - the member states, which have been dependent on the intervention of the ecb as an intermediary to obtain money because of the loss of confidence among financial market participants, must regain their independence. the central bank always stresses its independence, but lately - in the crisis - it seems to have lost the importance necessary to be able to speak of independence. the massive financial injection into ireland - whether in the form of emergency loans to the green island banking system or through the purchase of government bonds - has left the ecb dependent on ireland's access to the eu rescue package in order to be able to service the loans at the ecb. the ecb must at all times resist attempts to become a political entity.
in writing. - i voted against the report on cooperation between civil and military actors and the development of civil-military capabilities. the report gives a very detailed account of the latest developments in security policy. the european union must be able to take action in the field of foreign policy, and the european union must be able to take action in the field of defence.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty made 'common defence' a concrete objective of the eu. the union's capacity to act in crisis management shall be strengthened through a more efficient allocation and use of financial, civilian and military resources. the eu is to develop military capabilities at eu level through 'permanent structured cooperation' (pesco) between those member states that so wish. the report by mr ehler calls for the conditions for military cooperation to be defined and for a clear definition of the ssc. as an austrian, i am particularly interested in clear definitions, especially with regard to the implementation of the solidarity clause under article 222 tfeu and the duty to assist under article 42 (7) tfeu, which is also called for in the report. the 'mutual assistance clause' expressly states that it does not affect the specific character of the security and defence policy of certain member states, thereby ensuring the maintenance of neutrality. and the design of the solidarity clause leaves it to the national authorities to decide when and what kind of eu assistance is requested. however, austrians are very uncertain about this new eu military component, due to various media reports.
in writing. - while quotas have been introduced for the anchovy fishery in the bay of biscay, this does not apply to pelagic species and tuna species. the number of fishing vessels in the area has decreased from 391 in 2005 to 239 in 2009. this had a considerable impact on the economic situation in the area. the rapporteur says that the anchovy stock has not recovered to date. to counteract this, a management plan linked to the anchovy stock would now be needed, but would not have to be renegotiated annually. the rapporteur believes that this should also include the control mechanisms which control the quantity of catches. i shall abstain because the rapporteur points out that the articles in the plan submitted concerning control are likely to be adapted by a new council control regulation and the rapporteur has no precise knowledge of this.
in writing. - in times of increasing overfishing of stocks, there should be more discussion about the introduction of fishing quotas and, consequently, about how to comply with and control them. however, science has not yet been able to pinpoint the exact number of fish, in this case the stocks of the cod. consequently, all measures are based on estimates only. nevertheless, they should be used to establish a tac. i shall abstain because the report does not deal enough with the economic aspect of cod fishing.
in writing. - the baltic sea is home to a growing number of fish species which are in acute danger. for example, the quantity, size and quality of cod are far below what was caught 15 years ago. the industrial fisheries and their handling of by-catch discards in particular contribute to this. traditional, smaller-scale coastal fisheries may be more likely to ensure sustainable management of fish stocks. i shall abstain because the report clearly states that there is no reliable scientific data on the subject.
in writing. − as the world's oceans are slowly depleting their fish stocks and yields are reaching their limits, aquaculture fish and shellfish farming has become increasingly important in recent years. the aquaculture industry is therefore a growth sector which this report gives due attention to. the share of inland aquaculture, such as pond farming or flow-through aquaculture, is growing faster than other food production sectors and is already exceeding production in marine installations. the tradition of pond farming is particularly strong: fish and crustaceans have been farmed for centuries in ponds, most of which are artificial. clearly, closed aquaculture systems offer enormous benefits in terms of ecology and the antibiotic problem. i support the report which calls for an important framework for closed-in aquaculture and sets out strict definitions of the conditions for introducing non-native fish species. in order to avoid the disturbance of native ecosystems by the introduction of non-native species, it is important to encourage closed systems breeding.
in writing. − in addition to the destruction of natural habitats, the introduction of non-native species into ecosystems is one reason why species are declining worldwide. the loss of species in aquaculture is also increasing, and in the long term this is damaging the whole ecosystem. i shall abstain from voting because it does not address the real problem.
in writing. - i abstained on the question of the continuation of subsidies for unprofitable coal mines, contrary to the line of the group of the european people's party. i believe that the vote in parliament is based on a nationalist reflex and short-term thinking. i reject the subsidy because i believe that the use of coal and the associated co2 emissions are in principle contrary to climate protection. money that could be invested in renewable energy is literally being thrown into a deep pit. i believe that the key issue is to look for sustainable alternatives to energy production. but we must also develop alternatives for the labour market. it is clear that in the past there have been failures, and that employment policy has lacked foresight. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have therefore decided to abstain rather than vote against.
in writing. - further support for the european coal industry is essential to slow the withdrawal of uncompetitive mines from the coal industry. but the commission's proposal does not go far enough. mining is concentrated in a few regions and these regions will have to change their economic structure completely in the coming years. in the past, it has often been the case that mining regions which have lost their competitiveness have suffered severe social and economic declines within a few years. these regions were often the black pearls of economic grandeur in europe. if they are given time to adjust to the changed circumstances, they will continue to be economic entities. if you fail to do so, you will incur many more costs through unemployment and bankruptcy. the green group's argument that this is harmful to the environment is a false one. domestic coal is much more environmentally friendly than foreign coal. that is why i voted in favour of the well-formulated report.
in writing. − i voted against the report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly 2009 because it is very vague and imprecise and does not contain any component that suggests a more efficient development cooperation with the acp states in the future. development aid in its present form has failed 80%. it has only increased the dependence of states on aid. what we need is help to help ourselves. it must be possible for those countries to build up a functioning economy slowly. the ability to feed oneself plays a major role. the report is, however, stubbornly attached to the status quo and must therefore be rejected.
in writing. − the report on civil, commercial and family law and private international law aspects of the action plan for the implementation of the stockholm programme contains, in paragraph 40, a serious interference with national law by requiring that same-sex marriages and partnerships entered into in one member state must also be recognised in all the others. this intervention is also to be cheated through the back door by clever wording. the german version of the application - and i suspect many other language versions - does not make the actual meaning and purpose of this point as clear as it should. i have voted against this report because i am opposed to 'gay marriage' and, above all, to this insidious form of politics. the report may in fact subsequently stimulate the kind of partnership tourism that has already developed in the field of adoption and artificial insemination. by entering into a partnership in a country where equal rights and entitlements are legally valid, the contracting parties could then also assert in their country of origin or origin rights that only apply to marriage. the present resolution would ultimately render the very existence of different national regulations completely absurd.
in writing. − since the european union acquired joint competence in the fields of justice and home affairs, enormous progress has been made in the field of civil law. respect for the different legal systems and traditions is enshrined in article 67 of the tfeu and is also highlighted in the report by mr berlinguer as a strength of the european union. the subsidiarity principle is a principle of eu law which applies only if the subordinate body is able to solve the problems and tasks on its own. the areas of justice and home affairs are traditionally the competence of the member states, each member state has its own particularities and traditions which are part of the cultural diversity of europe, but in order to keep pace with the changed realities of the present time, a shared competence with the european union was necessary. contracts with cross-border relationships are now the norm, and unions/families with partners from different member states are now commonplace - but there are challenges to be met by national civil law. as the rapporteur recommends, it is now time to develop a european legal culture alongside national legal cultures.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a question for mr bisky. companies make profits when they produce products and services that are bought by citizens: is your alternative to producing losses and producing products that nobody needs?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the 2011 budget is negotiated by three equal partners: the council, the commission and the parliament. the european parliament has agreed to the 2.9% budget increase proposed by the council, but only in conjunction with a policy package. this is a very legitimate demand in the light of the lisbon treaty. as regards the scale of the increase, i think it is important to clarify that to date we are working with a volume of the eu budget that goes back to the time when there were 15 member states and was therefore tailored to them. but we are now 27 countries in the union and with a whole host of new tasks to consider. in the face of the economic crisis, it seems incomprehensible to increase the eu budget. but we have to remember that almost 95% of the money goes back to the european citizens in the form of direct aid, such as the european globalisation adjustment fund. finally, it must be clear to everyone that the current budgetary situation is a matter of domestic policy in individual member states. the fact is that without a 2011 budget, for example, there can be no funding for the three financial regulatory agencies and that, in view of the current drama in ireland, it would have been best if these agencies had started work yesterday.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. yes, it is clear that the traditional representatives of the european parliament are calling for a large degree of flexibility in the budget, but i do miss the fact that the interests of the net contributor countries and, ultimately, the interests of the citizens are taken into account here in the house. it is the net contributors who are ultimately financing the eu, who are restarting the engine after the crisis, who are saving the budget and ultimately the euro, and who are imposing a package of burdens on their citizens that has been washed away. i therefore understand and am justified in thinking that these countries and citizens want to stick to budgetary approaches, and that the net balance cannot be changed at will afterwards and that money is not diverted into different channels. i am not thinking of disaster relief aid, which i am not talking about. the critical attitude towards the eu tax is also not due to a supposed lack of solidarity, but simply because the member states are for the most part clearly against it. it is therefore clear that, in the spirit of subsidiarity, ratification by the national parliaments must be maintained.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i think that we can agree with much of what is contained in this programme, mr president of the commission. however, you will understand that today we are going to talk about the critical points where we simply want to do more. we live in a europe which is increasingly influenced, at least by certain forces which are more anti-european and which are fighting against the institutions of the european union. we really need to think about what content and what methods we can use to counter this. i'll get to that. the first point is growth policy. mr president, it is true: we must regulate the financial markets, we must provide a safety net, etc. but we also have to go back to what you have said clearly and repeatedly, which is what we mean by green growth or green jobs, a restructuring of the economy. commissioner oettinger has recently published a series of documents on energy policy, involving huge investments. unfortunately, it does not say how these investments are to be financed. we must also emerge from this crisis with an active growth policy. i wonder where, for example, in the energy sector or in the transport sector, investment can be made to achieve this green growth or this green job creation. we're not finding enough. secondly, the internal market. we agree with you, mr president. the single market concept must be published. they have proposed a number of reports which go back to mario monti. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. there's more to it than that. we are now waiting for your specific proposals on the posting directive. in the interests of workers, it must be made clear that this posting of workers directive cannot be used for wage dumping but serves social welfare. thirdly, tax policy. we're not going to be able to get there. we have just seen in the debate on ireland that it is not possible for certain countries to have low tax rates to attract businesses and then, when they are in financial difficulties, to say to the other countries: 'now you must also finance our budget deficit' - if i may put it very simply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the taxation of capital. i think we need to make progress here. i know that you have difficulty with some member states, but i think this is absolutely essential, particularly in the social field. the gap between rich and poor is unacceptable and we must propose more, especially in the interests of women, who are particularly affected by poverty. the last point: you spoke of citizens' concerns, mr president of the commission. this is absolutely important. but how we communicate our actions - which concern you, but also us in parliament - is also very important. many people don't understand that we only publish hard-to-read press releases about our work on many issues. we must work together to communicate our work better. we are now getting the popular initiative. the enemies will exploit it and use it against europe. we must see to it that people use the popular initiatives for europe, for the building of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to congratulate the commission on its ambitious work programme, but we must try to align it even more closely with europe's strategic objectives, with the long-term strategy. i would ask the commission to look to the future with courage and not with fear. the council is more likely to be on the braking side. the progressive forces should stick together here. competitiveness is a key issue that we need to address if europe is to remain competitive in order to achieve our objectives of sustainable growth and social growth. it's also important that we sell that message properly. unfortunately, the media in particular show the pro-european forces far more than the pro-european forces. but everyone is aware that europe can only move in the right direction if we are united. we must ask the commission to place its overall programmes for the next few years under the heading 'increasing efficiency', namely increasing efficiency in the field of energy, in the field of the use of resources and raw materials, but also in the field of education. universities and schools have a lot to contribute to creating this smart europe. the research and development sector is also called upon to play a separate role. we must be aware that the rest of the world is not asleep. we must not look to the future with fear and be reduced to this small-state approach, as is sometimes the case in the council. we are called upon to look to the future together with the commission.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. new skills for new jobs is a key issue. why would you do that? it's about the future. it is not just about overcoming the challenges we know, such as demographic change, economic crisis, etc. it is about empowering people to shape the jobs of the future and thus to actively contribute to an innovative economy. the commissioner has a great deal of respect for the social partnership. that's good. i would also like to emphasize the commission's focus on working conditions, on the physical and, above all, the psychological stresses of a busy working life. what good is it to society if people are peak performers in the short term and are burned out and wrecked in the long term? i didn't say anything. the systematic review of eu legislation should therefore be carried out under this heading and not under the heading of 'better regulation'. on flexicurity: i regret the commission's proposal for a type of entry contract for the labour market which will only gradually bring about full employment rights. is it not too cheap to crush young people, the gold of our future, in this way from the very beginning of their professional careers? does this not mean that the commission is more or less taking a stand against precarious employment conditions? i very much hope that the commission will improve on this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the focus of action must be on optimising human resources within the union rather than relying on mass immigration. the aim is to provide young people with new, sustainable skills adapted to the new conditions of the labour market. we need a re-training drive for those eu citizens who have left school, the teaching profession or the university. there is also a need to encourage further training, retraining and lifelong learning. in particular, the forthcoming reopening of the labour market in 2011 obliges the eu to take measures for those citizens of the eu member states who are particularly affected by this reopening of the labour market. the low-skilled workers there, but also the self-employed, will be the first victims of this opening. i expect the commission to protect these people from unemployment and wage and social dumping.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the achievement of a stable position in life and thus the building of a dignified existence are probably the focus of every young person. now that the recent economic crisis has hit hard, they are forced to take up often short-term temporary employment contracts and to undertake low-paid internships and, of course, periods of little pension-generating value. this makes long-term planning difficult. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that young people are able to work for a long time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on temporary work are applied.
i have to say, madam president, the relationship between the european union and china is not always a simple one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has made it its duty to promote these values worldwide, and to support and support human rights defenders in other countries, including china, people like liu xiaobo, so that they can change the situation in their own country. that is why i think it is essential that we here in the european parliament, as well as in the council and the commission, make clear statements to participate in the award of the nobel prize when the time comes. heidi hautala is going to do this as a person. but i very much hope that european governments, the council, the belgian presidency and the commission will also be represented at the highest level. it's the only way we can make it clear that we are making a clear case that we are credible in our demand for respect for human rights worldwide.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the current financial crisis requires fundamental changes in the way economic policy is conducted in europe: strengthening financial discipline, monitoring economic policy and improving coordination in crisis management. the strengthening of the stability and growth pact would inevitably lead to an increase in economic policy responsibility. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to monitor the budgetary situation in a timely manner. finally, a new crisis mechanism means that banks and insurance companies, among others, can be held accountable. i would appeal to them to take on more responsibility towards the taxpayers. the eu wants to speak with one voice. it is in these difficult times that there is an opportunity to invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency, for example, and thus to strengthen environmental and growth policies.
in writing. until 2007, the rest of europe was amazed at the economic performance of ireland, the 'celtic tiger', which produced fantastic economic data with low corporate taxes and little regulation. now reality has set in. the celtic tiger has proved to be a lame duck to which the rest of europe must take its arms or its lame wings. the european parliament has already been given a mandate to make a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia. this is not just theoretical state guarantees, which are going to ireland now, and perhaps soon to spain and portugal, after the black sheep of greece, but real taxpayers' money. and this is another step towards a transfer union in which the euro countries, which have the budget, have to hold their wallets for the mismanagement of the others. the eu has been too late to take care of this, and it will only be seen whether the decisions of the european council are followed by action. the tax billions must no longer be thrown into the mouths of poorly run states and speculative banks. the transfer union has to end. we need a mechanism that allows bankrupt countries to become truly insolvent and then to expel those countries from the euro zone. we cannot play doctor with a crippled monetary union, but need a core european union of hard currencies.
in writing. the european solidarity fund has a budget of €1 billion per year. no applications have been made for disbursement from this fund in the current calendar year. its use, which is not intended to compensate for private damage but to restore infrastructure, is precisely defined. ireland has now requested aid to help repair the damage caused by the floods. i agree with the report because there has been no distribution this year and the budget is to be used to its full advantage and ireland meets all the criteria.
in writing. - older people and chronically ill people in particular are prescribed a variety of medicines which can interact with each other, because one doctor does not know what the other doctor has prescribed. and now, more and more products are being sold over the counter, from aspirin to cold medicines to sleeping pills. who would have thought that even natural plant products could interact with different medicines? and the patients contribute to the confusion: there is no mention of prescribed medication, because we have taken it at the wrong time, we have stopped or changed the medication ourselves.... the economic damage caused by poor adherence to treatment is in the billions. the clear distinction between advertising and information, as called for by the rapporteur, is therefore important. this will hopefully lead to a better understanding of the interaction of nonprescription medicines with prescription medicines. the prescribing physician must remain the number one source of information, since only he can choose the medication according to age, sex, weight, known intolerances, etc. i have abstained on these grounds.
in writing. − this directive introduces, for the first time, uniform rules on the provision of information to the general public on prescription medicinal products. the aim is to provide patients with the necessary information on the benefits and risks of prescription medicines to enable them to make informed decisions. the commission shall, after consulting, inter alia, patient organisations and healthcare professionals, adopt quality criteria for information. these ensure the reliability of the data also provided on websites and internet portals and hold the pharmaceutical industry accountable for the information they provide. the amendments tabled by mr fjellner also recommend information campaigns to raise awareness among the general public of the dangers of counterfeit medicines, which have already led to deaths in member states such as the united kingdom. for years, eu customs authorities have been noticing a rapid increase in the import of counterfeit medicines, especially antibiotics, painkillers and even cancer medicines. contrary to some media reports, the directive only covers prescription medicines. so no one has to worry about their herbal tea.
in writing. − when in germany alone, approximately 25,000 people die each year from adverse interactions and side effects, and 3% of accidents are due to prescription drugs, it is clear that we need to provide more information to patients. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. we need to educate patients, but we also need to help them navigate the pharmaceutical jungle, by setting up a daily schedule, or packaging concepts, or special labels. it saves the treasury billions and the patients side effects and interactions. the present proposal contains a few approaches to enable patients to be better informed about the medicines prescribed to them and their use. whether patients actually benefit from better access to quality information is questionable given the behaviour of many patients. nevertheless, it is of course important that the information is made available throughout the eu. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the rohs directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment regulates the use of hazardous substances in equipment and components. it is also an important instrument for establishing a european and international standard for manufacturers. the extension of the directive is also intended to cover the treatment of hazardous waste. i shall abstain, since the report does not yet fully address all the problems of handling dangerous substances.
in writing. - in fact, electrical appliances, especially in the it and telecommunications sectors, have experienced rapid market growth. this, together with the shorter and shorter innovation cycles, is also leading to more and more electricity waste. the new version of the rohs directive addresses hazardous substances which could harm the environment and human health. the proposals are partly controversial: on the one hand, major computer manufacturers such as hp, acer and sony ericsson have called for a ban on all bromine flame retardants in electrical and electronic equipment. on the other hand, the results of the commission's study do not seem to be entirely conclusive, at least as regards the potential damage to the environment. there are also concerns from industry about the ban on pvc, particularly in the cable industry. the negative properties of pvc are disputed and there are fears that if pvc-coated cables were banned, the cost would be higher. it is important to weigh these arguments before standardizing specific prohibitions! i therefore abstained.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat the illegal trade in human beings. the resolution shares the concerns of eu citizens about data protection. it expressly rejects a three-strikes rule which has been discussed as a measure for copyright infringement. the resolution also stresses that the agreement must be in line with the acquis communautaire, the eu's common legal framework. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of intellectual property rights. we must act decisively to counter this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs and also you, commissioner oettinger, because what you have presented in the last few days and weeks is very crucial for the development of the european union. however, i agree with mrs van brempt, mr turmes and others that we must go a step further, because - if i may say so - a sensible, ecological energy policy is almost like a carrier rocket for green growth, for green jobs. we discussed this with the president of the commission yesterday. unfortunately, very little is said about this today. we have to go through these steps. of course, some things in the environmentally oriented energy policy are even more expensive today. but when you think about environmental profitability, what it means for european industry to be a leader, it is also very important for jobs. i agree with mr reul that we need a lot of energy sources. perhaps not all of us, but we do disagree on some points. but we must know where energy efficiency, energy saving and renewable energy are going, because these are the engines of a future european economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i am really shocked by what people like mr griffin are spreading in the name of climate change. so what fascism has to do with climate change is an absolute mystery to me. i think it is a scandal what he is saying here, and i think that such statements have not lost anything in this house because the problem is really too serious. i'm also concerned that we really have an increasing rate of greenhouse gases in our atmosphere. please look at the world meteorological organization's numbers. i'm also shocked by the lack of acceptance in the population. mr griffin is riding this wave, and i am also shocked that the big emitters, such as the united states and china, are not prepared to enter into such an international agreement. i would like to remind you of the debate we had here last year before copenhagen. if we are not too ambitious and if we go into these negotiations with realism, then we can achieve something as europe, as a smaller emitter. how can we do that? commissioner, i appreciate your enthusiasm, but i think that communication with the public is extremely important. people don't understand the problem. why would you do that? because the numbers from the world meteorological organization are clear -- they're averages. it is true that europe is colder now than it was a few years ago. that's right, you're right. but still, we have rising temperatures globally. this needs to be communicated, and if we can't do that, we don't have the support of the public, and that's why people like griffin can also link fascism to climate change. that's the problem. so please, commissioner, try to improve this. secondly, let us create the energy revolution with the incentives we value. the best companies are in china, we in europe are not so good. so we have to come up with something to get our companies to actually make that change. are these binding goals really the absolute cure that is always touted here? we must also have honesty in the markets. the things that are happening around the cdm mechanism 60% of the money is going to china that cannot happen. it is not enough to hide behind purely legal arguments. let us approach the debate with honesty, the matter is too important. we are with you, commissioner. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 149 (8) of the ec treaty). )
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not sure i'm getting this right. the important thing is that we openly discuss this with the citizens and also, as i said, on the basis of the figures from the world meteorological organization. we have the world average, the temperature is rising by 0.63 degrees, but in europe we have different values. because weather is a local phenomenon, and we're talking about climate, a long-term global phenomenon. so let's make that distinction. if we say it's getting colder, winter is coming earlier, then we have to communicate that properly. and in that sense, my call, my request for increased communication, is important.
mr president, madam commissioner, madam president of the council! parliament has already made a clear commitment to climate action on several occasions. i am sorry to say that this attitude does not seem to be so widespread among decision-makers in the member states. the environment ministers, who are often very ambitious, are often left alone. i hope that the ministers of finance and economy and those responsible for economic affairs will think in terms of longer time frames. but it is usually traded for very manageable periods of time, namely the time until the next elections. but nature will not be able to take account of what are called day-to-day political needs. it will respond to climate change with all its adverse consequences for man, indeed for mankind. if we fail to communicate the urgency of this issue and, above all, the urgency of action, we will have to devote a significant part of our financial resources to disaster relief in the not too distant future. commissioner, under the motto 'one planet, one voice', i wish you every success in cancún for the sake of future generations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the climate conferences are aimed at getting a successor to the kyoto protocol, which expires in 2012. progress in the fight against climate change is more than urgently needed. overall, the eu is on a relatively good track to meet its climate targets. but it is urgent that we in the eu, with the us and china on board, seek a legal basis for a global climate agreement. in these difficult times, strengthening environmental policy is also a huge opportunity for economic policy, for example by investing in renewable energy and energy efficiency.
i have to say, madam president, the eu-africa summit is to discuss concrete impetus for growth and employment, and that is a good thing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the trans-african superhighway. because the 500 km of road planned for 2012 across tanzania, through kenya and across the world's largest wildlife park, the serengeti, is a project to be rejected. every year, millions of wild animals migrate north through the serengeti to their water sources. scientists are explicitly warning of the ecological disaster that is looming: no access to water for the animals, collapse of the ecosystem, destruction of biodiversity and damage to local tourism, which accounts for at least 23% of tanzania's income. i therefore appeal to the council and the commission to say a clear no to this ecological and economic madness. we must protect the last resources of africa, we must save the serengeti for a second time. and please also sign my accompanying written statement against this project, the serengeti highway.
i have to say, madam president, you know, there's an african proverb that says, "poverty is like a lion. if you don't fight, you'll be eaten. but when you look at the current development aid and cooperation between africa and the european union, you cannot help but be struck by the fact that at the moment billions are being thrown to the lion's den rather than people are actually being helped. the african continent has a whole series of problems. the first is the numerous military conflicts, which we are not really succeeding in pacifying and which are constantly fuelled by aid money that often ends up in the wrong hands. secondly, economic growth rates are not matched by successes in poverty reduction. in this respect, the criticism that the eu is pushing african states to open markets, which can exacerbate poverty and hunger, should be taken seriously. this will have to be a topic in the eu-africa summit talks on free trade agreements, as will the charge that cheap food exports threaten the livelihoods of entire populations.
i have to say, madam president, it does not reflect well on morocco if it wants to suppress the reporting of the incidents in western sahara. when the gaza relief fleet was attacked, there was an international outcry of outrage. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it was foreseeable that the liberation movement would eventually no longer feel bound by the ceasefire in view of the deadlock. the european union has also been involved in a referendum on western sahara, a referendum on which there was never any real agreement on the participants. meanwhile, more and more moroccans were settled. i believe that these incidents must be fully investigated. the european union should act as a neutral mediator and try to bring the two parties to the dispute back to the table.
i have to say, madam president, i too am very pleased that there is finally a resolution in this house on the conflict in western sahara. i think that this should have happened long ago for other reasons and not just now after these cruel incidents in the gdeim izik camp. i also do not really understand why morocco is not prepared to allow an independent inquiry. if there's nothing to hide, then there should be an investigation. so why not? i very much hope that this resolution will be adopted in parliament tomorrow. that does not mean that there should be no dialogue with morocco. the moroccan and algerian foreign ministers and the polisario are invited to the foreign affairs committee next week. i hope they'll come and discuss it with us. but i do not think it is wise to postpone the resolution. the european parliament must uphold and support the principle of respect for human rights and the right of peoples to self-determination - in this case for the sahrawi people. i first visited the camps near tintuf 23 years ago. since then, this people has been fighting to finally exercise its right to hold a referendum that is fair and just. i am therefore glad that this resolution is now being adopted and i hope that it will be adopted tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all know that ukraine is one of the largest neighbouring countries of the union and that it has considerable potential for the future. the eu is therefore a very important partner. but politically it seems to be moving further and further away from the union. the pro-russian side has not been successful in the last local elections for nothing. it was probably a defeat for the european union as well. so the eu is apparently losing its appeal to ukrainians. the ordinary citizen in ukraine probably wants to become more european, but not necessarily as part of the union. the eu is gradually losing its edge here, acting as if it were a superior superpower. but the ukrainians undoubtedly want to be seen as equal partners, by the eu as much as by russia. so let us not look down on the ukrainians as if their ultimate goal could be eu membership. let us give them the opportunity to develop themselves in the years ahead and then decide whether they want to move closer to the union or perhaps prefer to remain independent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. let 's face it . unfortunately, the orange revolution - i say emphasize unfortunately - did not bring what it should have brought. among other things, because of the dispute between tymoshenko and yushchenko. yushchenko says today that tymoshenko is the same as yankovich, also interesting. unfortunately, the local elections did not bring what we expected. they have not met european standards, and this is now clear to the people in ukraine. let us be honest, mr gahler, what mr severin meant is something else entirely. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're moving away from oligarchs and towards democracy. do not try to interfere with the work of parliament and we will certainly press for the legal norms to be respected in accordance with european standards. mrs harms is in the middle. although it is not always the position of the greens to be in the middle, we can agree on what mrs harms said. let us really help the country to make a breakthrough, in the sense of european standards, in the sense of the european legal order. this is important from all sides. that is our policy, and we will pursue it with no regrets. and so we also criticized that the elections did not go well. you can also see that tymoshenko is helping to create an opposition that is constructive. you can advise mrs tymoshenko as we advise mr jankovich.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union has a great responsibility in the areas of human rights, social standards and environmental protection in its existing and future trade relations. these standards are an important basis for discussions in free trade agreements. in each negotiation, the eu can make a statement and demand fair employment conditions and sustainable use of resources. i would like to mention very explicitly the current mercosur negotiations and the negotiations with india. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not a single market, but a single market in which the people of europe are the only ones who can benefit from the benefits of the single market. here our aim must be to create good conditions and income in the countries rather than to make a quick profit. the european commission must continue to incorporate clear standards into future trade agreements and international negotiations. but setting these standards is not just about the ethics and values that the eu stands for, it is also about equal treatment of producers inside and outside europe. but it is also about the increasing demand of european consumers for products and it is about the traceability of the production process. i would like to conclude by commenting on mr jadot's report. article 48 is a strong criticism of the common european agricultural model, which guarantees safe, quality food. the report also mentions the apparent negative effects of climate change. i would like to make it very clear that my priority is food security for our 500 million citizens. the eu must remain sovereign in the area of food supply and must not become dependent on imports. this would be fatal. i am clearly committed to our eu citizens and cannot therefore bear this passage.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. wage and social dumping are methods which are very commonly used in developing and emerging countries. the problem of anti-dumping shows the importance of including environmental and social standards and the use of trade policy safeguards in the negotiation of free trade agreements with third countries. in all sectors of production, european companies must not be disadvantaged for their high quality standards, which they naturally beat down on prices. i am also very concerned about the developments in the mercosur negotiations. we must not open the door to social dumping, but must also integrate sustainable approaches into trade agreements. in the agricultural sector, dumping is a major problem, especially when self-employed small farmers are disappearing and being replaced by agricultural wage labour. i would like to draw attention to the own-initiative report on trade relations between the eu and latin america. this clearly shows the european parliament's concerns about social, environmental and production standards. i am grateful to the commission for this important request.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. my report on the implementation of community law is one of the most important here in the european parliament. we have here in the european parliament a process of evaluating legislation which is highly complex, highly complicated, but at the same time one of the most transparent compared with national parliaments. believe me, i can compare that, i was in a national parliament. this long process, involving the governments of the member states, involving the european parliament, has results which very often are only transposed into national legislation. if this implementation does not work in the national parliaments, if it is not efficient, then we will also have a credibility problem here as members of parliament, as a parliament and as the european union as a whole. i think that's a very serious story. as members of parliament we are constantly faced with citizens who come to us and point out shortcomings. the commission receives complaints from citizens about how national law is being implemented. i would like to mention just a few examples. let's look at the garbage crisis in naples. let us look at a crisis that is repeating itself, not for the first time, not for the second time, but for the third time. and the implementation of european waste hierarchies, for example, is still not complete. the commission has intervened, but this intervention has not led to the fact that what we have recognized as correct and important in europe in the field of waste disposal is finally being implemented there. let's look at my country of origin, austria. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation. in the case of the development of a ski resort, it is clear that there are enormous deficits. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. the enormous control deficits in this sector are leading to accidents, increased accidents caused by overtired drivers. in this context, we must say that citizens must not be frustrated in their desire to implement community law, they must be given clear information in good time and they must also be able to rely on the transparency of the procedure. we in the european parliament are in dire need of a procedure which will enable us to take in this feedback from the public while respecting the privacy of petitioners. i would ask you, commissioner, if you are prepared to support and cooperate with the procedure we propose in our report. this would be an essential step towards transparency, openness and clarity in the european process. i would like to conclude by saying once again that if we lose credibility because we do not observe and take sufficient account of the implementation of community law in european member states, then this is a credibility problem for the european union as a whole.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too have lodged a complaint with the ombudsman before, and although the outcome for me has not been necessarily positive and i was not satisfied with it, i would like to compliment and praise the ombudsman for his work. i think it's very, very important that we have his back from this house. in his opening speech he rightly said that his success depends very much on the behaviour of the institutions. if you look at the porsche ag case, it shows very clearly where the ombudsman's limits lie and how seriously some institutions are taking his recommendations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there have been clear recommendations from the ombudsman, there have been amendments, but so far not much has really happened in this house. the amendments were rejected. yes, that again shows how the house handles these recommendations. what i am saying is that it is very important to turn around and take the ombudsman's recommendations seriously and thereby also strengthen his back.
i have to say, madam president, the union has been working for decades to reduce bureaucracy and increase transparency. the european parliament itself, however, has little to show for it. on the contrary, it seems that the bureaucratic paperwork is getting bigger and bigger every year. the commission has also been very active in the field of the environment, and has been very active in the field of the environment. meps have the opportunity to make their voices heard by virtue of their office and the rights attached to it. the citizens don't have that. but that is what the european ombudsman is for. and when more than a third of the inquiries carried out by the european ombudsman concern a lack of transparency and in 56% of all cases the institution concerned sought a friendly settlement or solved the problem, then in my view this proves the importance of the ombudsman's role. in the words of the ombudsman himself, citizens have a right to know what the eu and its administration are doing. the only thing to add to this statement is that they also have a right to know what this european union is spending its tax money on and where it is being wasted. it is therefore time to bring the budgetary controls to the fore so that their reports will one day be as satisfactory as those of the ombudsman.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. let me begin my summary by expressing my most heartfelt thanks to the ombudsman. i appreciate his work very much and i know how important it is to the citizens, because he has become a very important point of contact for them. i would like to return to what commissioner šefčovič said, particularly with regard to the eu pilot project, which has been strongly criticised by some members of the european parliament because - and you have made this very clear - it creates more possibilities for member states, but not for citizens. i think we need to look again at whether this is really the case, because what we need is more transparency. a letter to the complainant stating that the complaint has been received by us is not sufficient. we must be clearer here, we need more closeness to the citizens, otherwise we will have a credibility problem in the long term. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the consequences for member states which do not implement and which perhaps even boast of it in their national media cannot simply be that they are sent another note. the commission has already taken a step forward in this respect when it comes to the interests of the citizens of the european union. i consider the revision of the 2002 communication, especially as regards the rights of the complainant, to be crucial. i would like to see parliament's rights respected in this context. we need a register of complaints received as feedback for our legislative work. i don't need to know who complained to whom about what. the subject of the complaint, and the consequences of the complaint, are important feedback for the whole legislature. we need that. and that's why i'm asking you to consider that. we need a clear register that gives us an overview of where the focus of complaints lies and what is being recalled. and i want that proposal to come soon. i'm happy to cooperate. we'd be happy to help you with the correlation tables. i think it's important too. it's a two-way deal, and i insist on it.
i have to say, madam president, i believe that we can organize competition much better with uniform rules, and that is why i am interested in the possibilities that exist in the telecommunications sector, particularly in the area of frequency allocation, to create uniform rules in the auction or in the so-called beauty contest in the telecommunications sector, because here with the new technologies, with the fourth generation networks, we are faced with completely new possibilities. if you travel to another european country today, you will notice that many of the prices that appear on the display here or on the display are the same. do you intend to further stimulate competition in roaming? what conditions could you envisage for roaming to enter into proper competition in the internal market and for there to be no price increases of a thousandfold across geographical borders?
mr president, on tuesday of this week we voted on the rapkay report, with a compromise on coal mines. like it or not, a decision has been made by this parliament. if we were to vote now for something different it would not be well regarded, especially by the commission. so i suggest that, in amendment 1 by the ppe group, we include the word ‘uncompetitive’ to bring it into line with the rapkay report. whatever your individual opinion, the opinion of this parliament this week should at least be consistent.
in writing. the budget of the european union is the framework for the action of its members. it is particularly important in times of economic uncertainty to be able to rely on commitments in this respect. the people must have confidence that they can have the means. i am speaking specifically to farmers. unused agricultural resources do not mean that they were not needed, but that they were very sparingly used. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. agriculture must be financially secure in the interests of eu citizens. a compromise should be found as soon as possible to decide on the 2011 budget. this is the only way to ensure the financing of agriculture and to avoid national bottlenecks.
in writing. − in times of financial crisis, when citizens are being asked to tighten their belts and accept massive cuts in social and family spending, the eu budget must be able to make rigorous savings. instead, an increase of about three percent is planned. some projects have simply been put off until the next major expenditure is forthcoming. there are many ways of saving money, such as the two plenary sessions or finally putting the eu's anti-fraud efforts on a high note and recovering all the funds wrongly paid. it is also necessary to consider whether all prestige projects, some of which are certainly promising, but whose implementation in some cases raises doubts about the usefulness or the method of implementation, should really be continued in this way. i cannot agree with this eu budget for 2011.
in writing. − the failure of the budgetary talks is due to the conflict between budgetary stability and adaptability: representatives of the eu parliament are calling for a large degree of budgetary flexibility, without however addressing the interests of the net contributor countries. it is the net contributors who finance the eu, who restart the engine after the crisis, who save the budgetary sinners and the euro! it is therefore justified to maintain binding budgetary estimates so that the net balance cannot be changed at will in retrospect and money is wasted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the critical attitude towards the eu tax is also not due to a supposed 'lack of solidarity' but simply because the majority of member states are clearly against it and insist on ratification by the national parliaments in the spirit of subsidiarity. the much-quoted "emancipation of the eu parliament" in this context is, in my view, a very questionable emancipation of eu citizens. i therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the negotiations on the 2011 budget because the budgetary negotiations have shown - unfortunately - that the council has clearly not read and understood the treaty of lisbon in the last 12 months. we are only asking for rights and procedures based strictly on lisbon - no more, no less. it was the council that pushed the new treaty forward. the council must stand by it and it is its duty not to take over any apparent disagreements within its ranks at the expense of the european citizens. i welcome the broad will of parliament to reach an agreement on the 2011 budget as soon as possible, this year. we need flexibility. and - most urgently - we need the new financial regulators as soon as possible, as the dramatic situation in ireland confirms to us every day.
in writing. - i voted for the report because human rights, social standards and environmental standards should apply not only in europe but in all countries. the countries with which we trade are particularly in our sphere of influence. this is a responsibility we should live up to and this report points in the right direction. it is the direction of fair trade and above all fairness to people and the environment. if we can improve in these areas, we should do so as far as possible.
in writing. − it should be in the eu's interest to conclude trade agreements mainly with peers. this means that more attention should be paid to human rights, environmental and social standards. as long as the eu adheres to these guidelines, it can also require its trading partners to do so. however, the eu is constantly pushing its limits, especially in the area of human rights, social and environmental standards, when other countries with which it has bilateral trade agreements have different views on these issues. i shall abstain, since it is doubtful whether the content proposed by the rapporteur is actually feasible.
in writing. - for decades, the eu has been working to reduce red tape and increase transparency. the european parliament itself is often not aware of this. on the contrary, it seems that the bureaucratic paperwork is increasing every year. the commission has also been very active in the field of the environment, and has been very active in the field of the environment. meps have the power to make their voices heard by virtue of their office and the rights attached to it. the citizens do not have this. that is why they have the european ombudsman. the fact that more than one third of the inquiries carried out by the european ombudsman concerned a lack of transparency and that in 56% of all cases the institution concerned sought a friendly solution or solved the problem, confirms the importance of the ombudsman's role. i cannot, however, agree entirely with the rapporteur's remarks, and i shall therefore abstain.
in writing. − i have of course agreed to the ombudsman's annual report on his activities, as i am regularly able to see, as a member of the committee on petitions, the diligent and objective work of mr nikiforos diamandouros. its track record is outstanding: in 2009, 70% of its investigations were completed within one year, 55% of them within three months.
in writing. − the eu institutions normally cooperate quite well with the european ombudsman. it seems strange that the eu regulates everything, such as the payment deadlines that companies may have, and on the other hand, in consultation with a third party, the commission is not able to set a deadline that allows it to meet its own deadlines. the commission has been able to meet the internal eu deadlines in less than one fifth of the cases, which is contrary to good practice. it is sad that it takes a special report from the ombudsman to publish something as simple as access to documents to which eu citizens have a right. in the words of the ombudsman, 'citizens have a right to know what the eu and its administration are doing'. the only thing to add to this statement is that they also have a right to know what this european union is spending its tax money on and where it is being wasted. i can therefore only agree with the report.
in writing. − evaluations are a means of making adjustments where necessary. the evaluation report 'eu pilot' raised a number of questions to the committee responsible, which invited the european commission to provide relevant data. the question is which is more useful in which cases: the 'eu pilot' or the existing infringement procedure. the commission has also proposed a revision of the infringement procedure. it is important that whatever form, revision or combination of these is chosen for the future, they do not lead to more bureaucracy and above all that they are in line with the eu objective of greater transparency. the present report, while containing some good ideas, does not meet the requirements set out above. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - information is gold. in order to provide citizens with objective information and to fulfil an educational mission, there are public institutions in the field of television and the media. these receive a funding entitlement in the form of fees in return for broadcasting quality programmes. radio is the main source of information for citizens. some public service broadcasters have changed their programmes in the face of competition from private broadcasters and have done quite well. the best example of this is the british broadcaster bbc. others, such as the austrian orf, not only suffer from falling quotas but cannot meet the requirements of impartiality and objectivity if the party influences are not genuine. in addition, a debate has been initiated by the private broadcasters on whether broadcasting fees are even legal, since the public broadcasters also generate advertising revenue. as the organisation and framework conditions differ from one member state to another, no unifying decision can be taken at eu level. i have abstained on that point.
in writing. - in many countries of the world, women are still discriminated against. violence against women is commonplace, and becomes particularly dramatic in situations of conflict. studies show that women in conflict zones are frequently raped and/or sexually enslaved. the first priority should be to punish sexual violence against women, including in war-torn regions of the world, as a crime against humanity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account. the report makes important points, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - beekeeping and apiculture are of great importance to agriculture, not least for the pollination of crops, because yields of crops and fruit depend on pollination by bees. the continuing loss of bees in many regions is all the more worrying and requires action. i therefore support the resolution calling on the commission to include bee diseases in european veterinary policy and to draw up an action plan to combat bee mortality. it also calls on the commission to ensure that support for beekeeping is maintained and further strengthened in the post-2013 cap to ensure the survival of this sector. 40% of the european honey market is dependent on imports, partly due to the liberalisation of the eu market for honey from third countries, and prices are reaching the limits of profitability.
in writing. − the loss of bee colonies is an eu-wide problem whose causes are not yet fully understood. factors such as the use of pesticides, unsustainable farming methods, the lack of food due to the increased cultivation of monocultures, climate change, as well as pathogens and parasites, all contribute to a significant decline in honeybee numbers. this has an economic impact as well as an environmental one, since more and more honey has to be imported. in order to counteract this, european beekeeping should receive more support in the future. the report is quite balanced, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − in 2010, beekeeping suffered a massive collapse, with bee populations declining sharply. this has negative effects on the whole environment and agriculture, as bees act as important pollinators. the situation is particularly bad for honeybees. i therefore voted in favour of the present report, which sets out measures to combat the large-scale death of bees.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that this report calls on the commission and the member states to ensure that the highest international safety standards are applied to new and old nuclear power plants. i voted for that passage, too. however, i want to make it clear that the phase-out of nuclear power remains my highest goal. although we must move away from fossil energy, nuclear energy is not an alternative here. the potential for danger is still too great and the question of the final disposal of nuclear waste is still unresolved. the promotion of carbon poverty is a well-known argument of the nuclear lobby to downplay nuclear energy. but even climate change cannot be used as a justification for the expansion of nuclear energy.
in writing. − a sustainable european energy strategy is the basic prerequisite for ensuring energy security and must therefore cover all aspects of energy supply. optimal energy supply is also important for a thriving economy, providing and creating employment. i welcome the fact that the report highlights the potential of eu member states' biomass resources to produce significant amounts of second generation biofuels. the use of fossil fuels must be significantly reduced in the coming years. biomass can make a significant contribution to replacing oil and gas. the energy sector must also have the necessary resources to ensure independence and security of supply. agriculture can make an important contribution to achieving the eu 2020 targets. the signs of the future must be recognised and investments made in renewable energy sources and green technologies. i support the aspects of the report which call for action to develop a sustainable energy policy in europe with a strong international presence.
in writing. - the rapporteur's report aims to improve energy supply in europe, which is desirable in itself. but this will be achieved by increasing the eu's influence in the energy sector. energy policy is a very country-specific matter. there is no consensus in europe on the use of nuclear energy and renewable energy sources in particular. that is why, and because i am convinced that we should still be able to determine for ourselves the form in which we obtain our energy, i am convinced that it is more sensible to leave energy policy in the hands of the nation states. that is why i voted against this motion.
in writing. − i regret that the european parliament did not find a majority in the resolution on the climate conference calling for a global tax on financial transactions, the proceeds of which could be used, among other things, to combat deforestation and desertification. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am pleased that the objective of limiting global warming to at least 2 degrees has been adopted, without excluding from the negotiations a limit of 1.5 degrees celsius, in order to ensure the survival of all countries, peoples and ecosystems.
in writing. − the forthcoming cancún climate conference is expected to agree on binding global limits for co2 emissions, as the kyoto protocol expires in 2012. while the european union is committed to a 20% reduction in co2 emissions by the end of the decade, parliament is even calling for a 30% reduction. so far, the climate targets have not been met, and setting a high percentage will not improve this. especially if emissions have been partly shifted with emissions trading. we have a strong environmental awareness here in europe which is far from being present in some of the so-called emerging countries. think of china or india. i'm already skeptical of the system as it stands. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the crisis. that would be to trade the plague for cholera. i simply cannot agree to such a project.
in writing. − the fact that the european economy has had to reduce its production due to the crisis and now produces fewer emissions is not an argument for the reduction of co2 emissions to 30 per cent called for by eu climate commissioner hedegaard, after the minus 20 per cent mark due to the economic crisis was now easily achievable. but climate action can only be successful if it is undertaken globally. it is of little use to reduce co2 emissions throughout the eu while at the same time exporting climate-damaging industries and the special waste of the industrial nations to the third world. on the other hand, restrictive eu measures are slowing down our economy and hampering our companies in international competition. so yes, to climate change, but not at the expense of companies and not alone. i therefore voted against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − the eu has a responsibility to integrate environmental aspects of trade into its international trade policy. i am in favour of the eu taking the first steps in this direction in trade agreements. but there must be more. i did not, however, support article 48. agricultural subsidies are necessary for food security and food independence for 500 million europeans, and this is my priority. in addition, the subsidies allow for diversity in cultivation and contribute to landscape management.
in writing. the report attempts to find a solution to the eu's in-house problem of globalisation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this report focuses on the much higher co2 production that this causes. it is not intended to impose a corresponding trade disadvantage on the products concerned, but on the contrary to make european technology and know-how available to the whole world. this is not a weakening of the problem of globalisation, but a massive aggravation of it. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. - i voted for the report because i believe that companies that trade have a certain responsibility towards the people who work for them. it is only by including social responsibility clauses in trade agreements with third countries that the conditions for equal treatment for companies in the eu and in these third countries are created and that workers are protected. however, the clauses must be drawn up in a manner which is proportionate. they must strike a balance and must not be such as to impede trade to such an extent that it falls first on the shoulders of the workers and then on the shoulders of the consumers.
in writing. − this report also aims at greater eu regulation of the economy. but the eu has shown time and again that its restrictions do not strengthen the economy or the quality of life, but are counterproductive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is quite clear that international trade should be liberalized only to the extent that it is beneficial to all sections of society and that it improves the quality of life. that is why i abstained from voting.
in writing. - horizontal cooperation agreements can bring significant economic benefits. this means that competitors share the risk, costs are reduced, investment, know-how and product quality are improved, and diversity and innovation can be implemented more quickly. on the other hand, horizontal cooperation agreements can reduce competition if competitors set prices, fix outputs, and force the division of markets. clear agreements that can ensure stability would therefore be welcome. i shall abstain on this point because some of the points have not been made clear enough.
i have to say, madam president, on november 10, five people were killed in a bomb attack on christians, and just a few days earlier a catholic cathedral was attacked. 100 people were taken hostage, and 40 died as a result. in recent years, 900,000 christians have fled iraq. the events paint a sad picture of the situation for christians in iraq, but not only in iraq, but throughout the middle east. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu would have enough leverage to fight discrimination against christians. let us think of the northern part of cyprus, where some 150 churches have been destroyed or converted into mosques since the turkish occupation, and where there is only one church left in which a mass for the christian population can be celebrated only once a year, and that is not in iraq but in the mediterranean, on the edge of europe. i therefore think that the idea of a permanent monitoring system for the persecution of christians worldwide is very wise and sensible. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. we cannot be willing to do business and yet be blind to the persecution of christians. finally, a word about former foreign minister aziz: former members of the saddam hussein regime are also entitled to due process. revenge devices have no place here. these former ministers should also be given a fair trial. this cannot be accepted, especially in a young state which is trying to become a democratic state, and i call on the eu to take appropriate measures and to act clearly.
i have to say, madam president, i am not going to go into detail. i believe that tibetans must have the right, as we all do, to speak tibetan in their mother tongue. otherwise, they will lose their cultural identity. given the situation in tibet, i think that bilingualism, i.e. learning tibetan and chinese, is appropriate. finally, bilingualism promotes the development of children in many ways and this is something that should be encouraged.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have no objection to putting the subject on the agenda. i would like to point out, however, that there are still reservations from some committees - and i believe not only from our group - about the specific arrangements. we certainly need a deadline for tabling amendments so that we can then vote by thursday at the latest. i would just like to say that there are still some discussions going on and i cannot say in advance whether we will agree or not. the debates will follow. but we have no objection to the subject being brought up.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have been a long-time supporter of the euro, but now it is at stake. and the european statesmen have not the courage to finally stop throwing new money at old money that has gone bad. the time has come not to say: we are still putting off the problem for a few years, but we must finally take the responsibility to take a risk of cutting debt. this is the only way to hold the banks accountable, and it also affects people like us, through our pension funds and life insurance. but better in this area an end with horror than this horror without end. we have a big problem here. in this context, i would like to ask all my colleagues to take part in the initiatives of the economic committee, especially with regard to the so-called financewatch.org, so that in future we can actually find means of taking action against the banks, against the lobbyists, who unfortunately still have the upper hand here, and to obtain independent information.
in writing. let not the day be praised before the evening. the agreement with moscow on the removal of trade barriers will not be believed until it is ratified and implemented. the european union has a duty to help the developing countries. but it will also be seen whether the kremlin will actually comply with eu demands for visa facilitation. if visa-free travel to the western balkans, a country a fraction of the size of russia, has caused such a flood of asylum seekers, what will happen when visa restrictions are lifted for the seventh most populous country in the world? and if many islamist caucasians have russian citizenship, do we let potential terrorists into the country without a visa? whether it is serbia, georgia or macedonia, we must take a firm view of the situation and continue to work on appropriate readmission agreements where appropriate. the experience gained with the visa waiver for the balkan countries should be evaluated and sis-ii and co. should be brought forward and the implementation of visa requirements in moscow monitored. the development of the wave of refugees to russia, i.e. from the caucasus and central asian countries, must be kept in mind, as must the development of the numbers of asylum seekers from those countries which want freedom of asylum.
i have to say, madam president, the officials of the frontex border agency are known to be doing important work in operational cooperation between member states and third countries to combat illegal immigration. i believe that this must be combated effectively, particularly in the transit countries. a dense network of immigration liaison officers and their close cooperation is therefore a useful measure to combat effectively mass immigration to europe with all its negative consequences for the peoples of europe. however, it is necessary to ensure that the information and situational assessments of liaison officers can be made available to frontex and national authorities as quickly and unbureaucratically as possible. in general, there is a clear need for greater cooperation between all actors on the immigration issue. i believe that the powers of frontex should be strengthened as quickly as possible in agreement with the member states, in order to ensure uniform and effective work, particularly at the external borders.
i have to say, madam president, member states shall deploy immigration liaison officers to third countries to combat illegal immigration in liaison with the authorities there. i therefore believe that cooperation between these officials and frontex is urgently needed. we need a meaningful exchange of information and best practice and the avoidance of duplicate structures. i hope that such synergies will make border controls more efficient, especially since frontex has no external officials in third countries. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome. some member states are very energetic, others are very sluggish. this will of course have negative consequences for all member states. so there is an urgent need for action. frontex must be strengthened and the authorities of the member states must also be made accountable by the eu.
the commission has already done so. the idea of a one-stop shop is welcome, but it is a paradigm shift for so many european countries, including my own, austria, a member state where residence permits are issued by immigration authorities and work permits are issued by the labour market authority, the ams, the labour market service, with the involvement of the social partners. the regulation of access to the labour market directly affects the social partners. they should therefore also be integrated in terms of content. the debate so far has included far too little of the trade unions, ngos and churches. many speakers have said that migration policy must be seen as a whole. i am therefore against the commission's tactic of dividing up the package and introducing the principle of the country of origin through the back door, or even social dumping, as i have already said. let me make a comment on the legal nature of the supplementary document. the additional document should also be normative in nature, since not all the conditions and information can be accommodated on a cheque card. this is the only way to ensure effective control. this is to protect workers and to prevent distortion of competition in favour of those entrepreneurs who ultimately want to enrich themselves through illegal workers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not see this report with rosy eyes, i see it with the concern of the citizens in our home countries, because after five years of residence in a member state, refugees will soon be granted a long-term residence permit. it applies throughout the eu. now, a refugee who has settled in a country with a more lenient asylum system can move to another member state at will after five years, and he will naturally choose a country with a lax or lenient system first and settle there in the long term, where there are clearly high social standards. the result: secondary migration and abuse. the five-year duration of the asylum procedure is also problematic, as there are often arbitrary delays in the administrative procedure and the collection. the extension of the directive would put even more pressure on those member states with a high level of social protection, which already have massive problems, and would make it even more difficult to integrate refugees. i shall be very critical of this report.
in writing. in the interests of enhanced sustainable growth and increased competitiveness, particular attention must be paid to eu cohesion policy. in a europe of the regions, gdp should remain the main criterion for determining regional eligibility. however, european regional policy must cover all regions and be sufficiently flexible to take account of regional and territorial specificities. in order to exploit the growth potential of the regions to the full and thus achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion in the european union, it is essential that particular importance be attached to competitiveness. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the economic situation in the member states. in particular, research and innovation are expected to play an important role in improving the eu's competitiveness in all regions, and it is therefore necessary to continue to promote these areas. while the eu 2020 targets are defined at community level, it is essential that local and regional authorities are more closely involved in their implementation; the 'bottom-up' approach is a prerequisite for the efficient implementation of the economic objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu's accession to the convention also entails the risk that the ecthr may adjudicate on any eu act; judges at the ecj have already warned against this step. i doubt that the echr will always be neutral and expedient. the president of the commission has himself admitted that he will examine cases brought by asylum seekers more closely than other cases. preferential treatment for certain complainants has no place in a neutral judge. the echr is currently seeking to suspend the dublin convention and prevent deportations from austria to greece. why would you do that? is greece an insecure country? do we really want to submit to a court that wants to ban the cross in classrooms? the cross, the symbol of christianity, one of the foundations of europe and our fundamental values. if the european court of human rights has no respect for such human rights, then it seems to me impossible to recognize it as a competent and appropriate decision-making body in this case.
i have to say, madam president, although much has been done in recent years to protect victims, many of those affected still feel abandoned. while prosecutors and judges hear a lot about the rights of the accused and the defendant in their training, they learn very little about dealing with victims. and not only here, but in medical education, we need to raise awareness so that we can better recognize the use of violence. for child victims, the issue of the statute of limitations for civil claims for damages in sexual offences is essential. only those with a perfectly good police record are allowed to work with children. the fact that in liechtenstein, for example, forced marriage without the consent of the victim is now a criminal offence and that genital mutilation is punishable until the age of majority clearly shows the potential dangers of the much-vaunted multicultural enrichment. i believe that this development should be taken into account in the eu, as well as its importance in the fight against trafficking in human beings.
i have to say, madam president, the safety of the women involved should really be a concern for all of us. the point is that wherever a victim is, he must not only be physically protected from the aggressors, but must also have the dignity of a human being. this european protection order should apply to all victims of violence, irrespective of the age or gender of the victim.
in writing. − portugal applied for assistance from the solidarity fund after unusual rains in february 2010 caused landslides and severe flooding on the island of madeira, causing damage to public and private infrastructure, as well as to the economy and agriculture. the portuguese authorities estimate the total direct damage at eur 1 080 million. france requested assistance from the solidarity fund after most of france was hit by the storm 'xynthia' in february 2010, with the atlantic coastal region, specifically charente-maritime and vendée, being the most affected. the storm left 53 dead and about 80 injured. for the designated area, the french authorities estimate the total direct damage caused by the disaster at eur 1 425,43 million. after verifying that both applications fulfil the eligibility criteria of regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, the commission proposed to mobilise the solidarity fund to the amount of eur 31 255 790 for portugal (floods in madeira) and eur 35 635 750 for france (storm xynthia), for a total amount of eur 66 891 540. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them.
in writing. - according to the böge report, € 66.9 million was made available to help deal with the effects of major natural disasters in france and portugal, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - in times of financial and economic crisis, an increase in the budget is to be rejected in principle. this is an adjustment for the damage caused by the storms in france and portugal caused by the storm xynthia. mutual aid and assistance in the event of natural disasters is a genuine sign of european solidarity and should therefore be welcomed and supported. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the report aims to ensure that the funds made available to portugal and france are intended to help rebuild infrastructure in both countries and are intended to be used as 'refinancing instruments'. that's why i voted for it. the aim is to help the affected population and to improve their living conditions and the economic stability of the region.
in writing. − the slovenian clothing company mura, european fashion design had to lay off 2,554 employees between 21 october 2009 and 20 february 2010 as a result of the economic and financial crisis. slovenia therefore requests eur 2 247 940 from the egf in order to take measures to ensure the rapid reintegration of the persons concerned into the labour market. i am voting for the report because the use of the funds is entirely justified.
in writing. - the report by mrs matera says that the aim is to help workers in slovenia who have been made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis to reintegrate into the labour market, which i think is a positive thing and which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. the impact of the economic crisis is still felt throughout europe. in germany too, there are still firms struggling to survive and many of them are being laid off. from 26 january 2010 to 26 may 2010, the printing press manufacturer druckmaschinen ag, based in heidelberg, had to lay off 1,181 employees as a result of the crisis. the german authorities have therefore requested an egf contribution of eur 8 308 555. i am voting in favour of the report because all the criteria for the use of the funds are fulfilled.
in writing. - i support the use of the fund in this application because this measure can provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns to help them reintegrate into the world of work. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. - i have approved without reservation all the egf applications voted today, except for the one from heidelberg printing, because i support the idea of the egf in general and in particular the direct support for people who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own and as a result of the effects of globalisation. i have, however, abstained on the request from the heidelberg printing press. i have a very strong reservation about this. heidelberg printing is known to be a pearl of german engineering. the group made excellent profits for many years. then came two or three - admittedly - difficult years economically. heidelberger druckmaschinen responded with the reflex, which is stereotypical for large companies: staff reduction in the high-wage sector, i.e. in germany, and parallel investment and staff development in the low-wage sector in china. the fact that the egf is being invoked at the same time in such a process is a negative example of how a socially sensible and very responsible eu measure is being exploited by international companies to evade their social responsibility.
in writing. − in order to prevent a sharp increase in unemployment caused by the financial and economic crisis, european countries need funds to implement effective policies quickly. the european globalisation adjustment fund has €500 billion a year to do this. if more than 500 workers are made redundant by one or more enterprises in a given period, a request for reimbursement may be made. i am voting in favour of the report because support for 1,104 polish workers made redundant in nace division ii 29 companies, amounting to eur 633,077, is fully justified.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it is a targeted measure to help workers who are suffering from the economic crisis and its effects.
in writing. - 1,154 redundancies affecting 593 spanish enterprises operating in nace 2 division 47 in the nuts ii region of aragon. the financial and economic crisis has led to a sharp drop in sales in the retail sector. this has serious consequences, especially for the aragon region, which is comparatively sparsely populated compared to the eu average. the region, which was still experiencing a slight upswing before the crisis, is expected to see a further exodus. i am voting in favour of the report because we must react quickly to the increase in unemployment, particularly in small and economically weak regions.
in writing. - as this is also additional support for workers made redundant by the effects of the global financial and economic crisis, who are to be provided with additional resources for reintegration into the labour market, i voted in favour.
in writing. − from 13 april 2009 to 12 january 2010, 544 spanish workers were made redundant in 143 enterprises operating in the nace-2 division (manufacture of textiles). in order to provide assistance to 350 of them, spain has applied for eur 2 059 466 from the european globalisation adjustment fund. i am voting in favour of the report because all the criteria for the use of the funds have been met.
in writing. - as the number of small and medium-sized enterprises in the comunidad valenciana, mainly specialising in the manufacture of furniture, shoes, textiles, ceramics and toys, is very high and the service sector accounts for 60% of total employment in the region, this sector has been particularly affected by the high number of redundancies in the last two years. this has a strong impact at local level, which is why the textile industry in particular should be strengthened and further promoted. that is why i voted for this motion.
in writing. - eur 500 billion is the ceiling for the funds that can be disbursed annually by the european globalisation adjustment fund. with a total of 528 redundancies in 66 companies in spain between 31 march and 30 december 2009, it is not surprising that the european globalisation adjustment fund has been used to provide funding of eur 1 422 850. i am voting in favour of the report because it is a welcome development that the european globalisation adjustment fund should be used up.
in writing. − i support this proposal, which aims to address the impact of the many redundancies in this sector and to help workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis to reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. − to be eligible for and subsequently approved funding from the european globalisation adjustment fund, clearly defined criteria must be met. the aim is to help workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis by creating measures to ensure their rapid reintegration into working life. the fund has €500 million available annually for these cases. however, a company must have made at least 500 redundancies like the spanish company lear automotive, which meets all the criteria for spain to apply for funding. i am voting for the report because that is what the egf is for.
in writing. − to enable countries whose workers have been made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis to actively support this group, the eu has set up the european globalisation adjustment fund. the purpose of the allocation of funds is to facilitate the re-entry of the persons concerned into working life. i am voting in favour of the report because poland has to take in 658 workers who were made redundant by the company 'h. cegielski-poznan'.
in writing. − whether, under what conditions and for what duration of legal residence, refugees are granted long-term residence is a matter for member states and should not be dictated by the eu. the fact that this proposal was adopted a few years late and in a revised form is not without problems. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation in the member states. the equalization of rights with eu citizens for persons with international protection status after five years of legal residence has raised problems and issues, particularly in eu countries with strong social systems, which cause costs of incalculable proportions. the extension of the scope of application to refugees and persons enjoying subsidiary protection can only place an additional burden on the public purse. in particular, the magnetic effect on refugees must always be borne in mind, i.e. that it is precisely the measures designed to provide protection and financial security that provide an incentive for many economic refugees to enter europe illegally under the pretext of asylum in inhuman and life-threatening circumstances. the idea of taking the length of the asylum procedure into account in the calculation of the residence permit is also questionable. i have therefore rejected the report.
in writing. − after five years in a member state, refugees will be granted a long-term residence permit, which will then be valid throughout the eu. as the asylum systems vary in severity from one member state to another, a well-informed refugee will initially settle in the member state with the weakest and most lax asylum law. after five years, he can move to any member state of the union he wishes. the result is secondary migration from countries with lower standards towards member states with generous social systems. first, the member state is chosen according to the strictness of the asylum law, then according to the level of social benefits. this would, of course, be particularly difficult for countries such as austria, germany or the netherlands! the present report is certainly not a sensible approach to tackling the asylum challenges in the eu and to pursuing an appropriate integration policy. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - a deal with georgia would bring a wave of fake asylum seekers. so first, security concerns must be addressed. as the experience of the balkans shows, visa-free travel is not only used for travel to the eu, but also sets in motion a veritable asylum tourism. the same could be said for visa facilitation for georgian citizens. overall, visa facilitation for non-eu citizens should not be granted hastily. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the right of asylum is respected in the member states. the problems with the schengen ii information system must also be solved first. finally, freedom of movement must not mean that asylum seekers or even criminals are the main beneficiaries. the conditions mentioned are not met, which is why i am strongly opposed to the extension of the visa-free area.
in writing. the report also stresses that the eu should continue to support the development of the country's economy and its economy, and that the eu should continue to support the development of the country's economy and economy. not to mention the abuse that visa liberalisation opens up, this logic must be reversed: no visa negotiations until all the necessary reforms have been implemented. the european union has a duty to protect its citizens from visa tourists and organised crime. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - a strong emergency response unit would be a good thing and could help citizens of europe and other countries in their most difficult hours. the rapporteur seems sadly to be concerned not with strengthening the eu's humanitarian aid or civil protection programme but rather with making the 'eu' stamp as visible as possible. it cannot be the aim of this emergency unit to promote the eu all over the world! the united nations' leadership and the military's involvement in emergency aid also risk sacrificing our independence, which i do not want to support. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. − it seems that the report is less concerned with improving the efficiency of development aid or civil protection than with promoting and highlighting the 'eu' label. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − the cost of obtaining data in europe is far too high. in contrast to the united states, some are ten times higher. the report contains some good suggestions for reducing these and other unnecessary costs. however, i am afraid that the applicant is wrong in its plans to achieve this cost reduction objective by introducing numerous additional regulations. the danger is that this will merely replace one bureaucratic hurdle with another. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − banks, exchanges and funds are developing new financial products and trading practices at such a pace that the markets in financial instruments directive is already outdated. the scope of the transparency rules needs to be extended to include intra-bank trading systems and the exceptions need to be narrowed so that financial institutions and financial products cannot escape effective supervision. the disclosure of pre- and post-trade data, which has so far been limited to equities, is now to be extended to bonds, centrally cleared derivatives, structured products, funds and certificates, thereby increasing the efficiency and transparency of the pricing process.
in writing. - the safety of the civilian population in the event of chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear incidents is a matter of great importance and ambitions in this direction are in principle to be welcomed. unfortunately, i have the impression that this report is intended to combat a spectre of terrorism which fortunately does not exist in this highly organized form in europe. so the aim is to continue to create panic in order to then be able to impose a certain policy. in addition, the report seems to deal mainly with the theme of 'solidarity'. i believe that there is a 'enough' in counter-terrorism as well as in eu solidarity, and that is why i abstained in this report.
in writing. the report aims to strengthen the commission's role in supporting regional and local authorities. this is an attempt to extend the power of the commission as a whole, and i must speak out against it. that is why i voted against the motion.
in writing. - the frontex border agency is making a significant contribution to the fight against illegal immigration. the only effective way to combat illegal immigration is in the transit countries. a dense network of immigration liaison officers and their close cooperation is therefore a useful measure to combat effectively mass immigration to europe with all its negative consequences for the peoples of europe. however, this is only possible if the information and situational assessments of the liaison officers are made available to frontex and the national authorities as quickly and unbureaucratically as possible. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. for example, the competences of frontex must be strengthened as quickly as possible in agreement with the member states, in order to ensure consistent and effective work, especially at the external borders. a comprehensive strategy on how to better protect the eu's external borders through cooperation with transit countries and how to better tackle the causes of migration in countries of origin would be important. the commission has to do this. although these considerations are not sufficiently addressed in the report, it represents an improvement on the present situation, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the conditions under which third-country nationals are allowed to reside and work in an eu member state are the responsibility of the country concerned, not the eu. the fact that immigration of highly qualified workers may be useful in certain areas should not lead to an open door policy. the first priority is to recruit skilled workers from among the people, i.e. eu citizens. if there is a shortage of skilled workers in certain areas, the causes must be investigated and the response must include adaptation of training and retraining. the fact that labour migration can be a problem for workers, because it depresses wage levels and can also lead to dumping prices, has been proven time and again in the past. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the discussion should also not forget that the arrangements for the transfer of labour can be exploited by enterprises with a good track record. i therefore rejected the report.
in writing. −although much has been done in recent years to protect victims, victims are often left behind. prosecutors and judges learn a great deal in their training about the rights of the accused and the defendant, but they hear nothing about the proper treatment of witnesses and victims. if the schedule is based solely on the defendant and a victim who is acting as a co-plaintiff is not considered at all, it is a slap in the face. awareness is important here, but also in medical education, so that domestic violence can be better recognized. the question of the limitation of civil claims for damages in cases of child abuse is also essential. and part of the victim protection is that only people with impeccable police records are allowed to see our kids. and if in liechtenstein forced marriage is now a criminal offence even without the consent of the victim and if genital mutilation is punishable until the age of majority, then this shows the potential danger of 'multicultural enrichment'. since victim protection is still in its infancy and victims often do not know where to turn in their own country and do not know their rights, it is important that victim protection is coordinated within the eu. i voted for the report.
in writing. - officially, slavery no longer exists, but unofficially, it does exist in the form of human trafficking. this very form of crime has been won for many into a lucrative business with billions of dollars in profits. in combating trafficking in human beings, we are lagging far behind organized crime. only a combination of different measures can ultimately lead to the goal. on the one hand, the security apparatus, which has been financially starved in recent years, must be reinforced. the eu can only combat the spread of trafficking in human beings, but it must also eliminate the basis for it. sub-areas such as begging would be relatively easy to tackle with a general eu-wide ban on begging. on the other hand, cooperation with countries of origin is essential, for example, in the field of labour slavery and forced prostitution. therefore, education and awareness campaigns on education and schooling in the countries of origin, transit and destination are an important tool in the fight against trafficking in human beings. there are some basic points in the report which are correct, but there are other points on which i cannot agree with them unreservedly and i have therefore abstained.
in writing. - romanian children are being taken to central europe to steal and beg, and old people and disabled people are being forced to beg. at the same time, the "capos of the beggar mafia" reside in sumptuous villas. human trafficking is a lucrative and fast-growing business. in the eu alone, europol estimates that there are hundreds of thousands of victims. the eu's efforts to combat trafficking in human beings are therefore welcome. the fact that organized begging is also discussed for the first time is particularly positive. because often leftist romantics close their eyes and make the population aware that these people beg voluntarily, that there is no begging tourism or beggar mafia. however, some of the measures proposed go too far. instead of making the countries of origin more responsible for the destruction of mafia structures and giving victims local help, the chance to receive an education and thus a future in their own country, the eu is moving towards residence permits and impunity for victims of human trafficking. this is a signal in the wrong direction: these people are already being lured to europe with false promises. the protection of victims and impunity for those caught stealing are the main incentives for those caught stealing to turn to the mafia. i therefore abstained.
in writing. - illegal human trafficking can be considered modern slavery. it is the third fastest growing criminal industry, with a volume of approximately eur 23 billion per year. the lisbon treaty has strengthened eu action in the field of judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters, including trafficking in human beings. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat trafficking in human beings, including the introduction of a new system of penalties for trafficking in human beings.
in writing. − visa facilitation for non-eu citizens must not be granted hastily. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the right of asylum is respected in the member states. the problems with the schengen ii information system must also be solved. finally, freedom of movement must not mean that asylum seekers or even criminals are the main beneficiaries. de facto, much will depend on whether and to what extent the agreement is actually applied. it certainly strengthens georgia's cooperation with the european union. i do not think the readmission agreement is restrictive enough, which is why i abstained.
in writing. − cohesion policy is a key eu concern in creating a balance between richer and poorer regions. this is also intended to compensate for the consequences of an unequal economy. the aim is to ensure that common standards of living can be achieved. particularly in a globalised world, great importance should be attached to the competitiveness of the regions. i am voting against the report because it is not possible to predict whether the regions of the individual member states already have the necessary know-how.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the internet platform wikileaks publishes - to put it simply - classified information, and that is naturally always very unpleasant for those involved. it should also be noted that no rule of law proceedings have been brought against wikileaks so far. meanwhile, a full-scale cyber war is raging. on the one hand, wikileaks servers are attacked, on the other hand, wikileaks supporters are bombing the web servers of visa and mastercard, so that they collapse. my questions, mr president, are: will the commission take action against such proxy wars? you have already mentioned the activities of commissioner malmström. is there already a time grid, are there already ideas? does the commission - and i ask for a clear answer and not excuses with details and the court's reasoning - intend to take action against wikileaks in order to appear and behave as a proxy for the united states once again on the sensitive issue of data transfer?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank mrs jędrzejewska and mrs trüpel, who have conducted the budgetary procedure with great responsibility and a clear focus on the priorities. on the 2011 budget: it is worth recalling that around 95% of the eu budget is returned to citizens. the best example of this is the egf. the eu's administrative costs are comparatively lower than in many of its member states at 6%. the eu budget was plus/minus 1% of gdp for many years. this was to finance the enlargement from 15 to 27 member states without additional budgetary resources. the treaty of lisbon now adds additional tasks. budget increases are always difficult. but the 2011 budget, with its themes such as new projects and additional lisbon tasks, is also an investment in the future of the eu and in the functioning of its institutions.
in writing. i welcome the fact that there is finally agreement on the 2011 budget. this provides financial security for the sensitive agricultural sector. the eu's agricultural policy needs a stable budgetary framework, especially in difficult times. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the effects of the cap. agriculture is heavily dependent on eu payments. farming families need planning certainty for the future of their farms. direct payments account for 40% of farmers' income across the eu and provide income security in the face of low producer prices, high production costs and market fluctuations. the measures under the rural development programme directly benefit the rural area and stimulate regional economic cycles. austrian firms in particular benefit from both measures, the first and second pillars. 58% of austria's annual agricultural budget comes from the eu. the tasks of eu farmers are diverse and increasingly responsible: producing food at the highest quality and animal welfare standards, while respecting the climate, the environment and biodiversity. the essential benefits require a secure income for farmers through a sound, stable eu financial policy. with a view to negotiating the financial framework 2014-2020, all agricultural services must be recognised with the same budgetary ceiling.
the commission has already done so. we are approaching the time of the shout-out in view of today's news, again on the euro, and we are thanked. i hope very much that your courageous approach does not fall too far behind the times. i would like to add to what the previous speakers have said and i would also urge you to ensure that in your sphere of influence not only is there no selection based on national quotas, but that party political preferences are also put aside so that a very difficult tradition in civil service, which is specific to the european sphere, can finally be broken and the best people actually be brought in. the second is the need for much greater transparency with regard to competitors in the international market outside the eu, who have constantly made politics with their ratings and have suggested a kind of omniscience that has in no way corresponded to the actual market situation or its significance.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. credit rating agencies played and are playing an infamous role in the financial crisis. they are too few, they are too powerful, they are too opaque, and in their structure and significance, they are an example of how out of whack our global financial system is. the only way to restore confidence in credit rating agencies is to create new, good rules for credit rating agencies. tomorrow we shall vote on a step in this direction, the necessary adaptation of the rating agencies to the new european financial market supervision structure and the adaptation to the new comitology procedure, the delegated act. esma is brought to life. the commission is empowered to review credit ratings on an ongoing basis, to carry out a comprehensive inspection of credit rating agencies and also to impose penalties that exceed the profit derived from the infringement. the commission has already made a number of proposals. but i would also like to point out that the european securities and markets authority should be staffed in such a way that it can actually do its job well and not be asked to do miraculous tasks by a relatively small staff of esma employees. we should be absolutely open to the great reform of the rating agencies that is coming and we should be talking about what is today virtually impossible or difficult to imagine. finally, the special purpose vehicles where banks stored their scrap paper received the highest credit rating from rating agencies. so in the big review, consideration should be given to creating a public european rating agency, to changing and questioning the model of pay. finally, it should be considered whether a second rating is not necessary. we need serious, robust regulation so that it cannot happen again that three big agencies can have such a large share of the existing financial misery.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to join in congratulating our commissioner, mrs hedegaard. we have learned a great deal from the events of the past year, particularly as regards speaking with one voice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we went to cancún with low expectations, and we achieved a lot there. i am convinced that next year in durban we will really get the result we all hope for. the important thing is that the un process is now under way and that we in the european union are aware that there are many paths to the common goal. the common objective is to limit global warming to the famous 2 degrees celsius. we have now succeeded in putting this into a un document for the first time. but it is also becoming clear in europe that this can be not only the famous binding treaty, but that we also recognise the efforts of other countries - and this includes in particular the big emitters, the us and china. it is extremely important for us politically to be united in our efforts, and we have been able to show that in cancún. but it is also important that we not only have a historic responsibility as the developed world, but that we have to do something, and above all we have to find a successor to the kyoto protocol. but it is equally important that the developing world recognize that they too have a responsibility. i think we have done very well in that, and we are on the right track here. the details have already been mentioned. i think it is particularly important that we have made concrete progress, particularly in the fight against deforestation. the individual countries are called upon to develop national strategies and we shall see what they achieve. this is a part of the political agenda which is also of great importance to us. we have a responsibility to transfer technology. we must do more in advance here, but on the whole i would like to give a positive assessment and thank you again, commissioner, for your efforts.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have only one question to ask mr reul: is it not possible to have binding objectives in the course of development and yet to see them in differentiated terms? you have contrasted 'binding' and 'differentiated' and i think it is possible to reconcile that. i fully agree with some of the steps proposed by the commissioner, but perhaps we can find a way of differentiating according to geographical and other circumstances, but still ultimately achieving binding objectives.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, you have put forward a very good plan, and mr bendtsen has improved it. we must break the equation that more economic growth means more energy consumption. we are particularly challenged here as politicians, because we have the normal technological progress, which is also characterized by the fact that we have more energy-efficient products and economic methods. but we have to be able to reduce our energy bills, despite higher economic growth. we must really come up with innovative solutions and put the right incentives in place by the politicians. economic history also shows that the societies that have been most successful in the long term have been those that have put this efficiency - whether in the raw materials sector or in the energy sector - on their banners, and we europeans with our high standard of living are particularly challenged here. we need to drive energy efficiency if we are to realistically achieve our climate goals. i would also like to remind you that reducing dependence on imports of fossil fuels remains an important policy objective. the capital released, the lower electricity bills, also release a very large consumption potential, which can also contribute to our economic growth in the long term. i think that the approach you have taken, namely not to make these objectives binding, is the right one. we should not lose ourselves in discussions about definitions and measurement problems. the important thing is that the way is shown. the commission and the rapporteur are on the right track here. we should leave that open, but that doesn't mean we should be less ambitious. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would first like to congratulate mr bendtsen on his excellent report. i have only one comment to make, commissioner: you come from regional policy, from a large german state, i come from local policy. we will not achieve the objectives, whether binding or not - and i am in favour of binding objectives - unless we address the countries, the regions, the communities and start with what can be done. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter, and i hope that the commission will be able to do so. that's why we have to start there. it would also be a great opportunity to attract cities and municipalities to a major european project on energy efficiency, energy saving and, of course, other areas of energy policy. i would therefore urge you to do so and perhaps also to think about how to reach out more effectively to citizens, particularly through the cities, the communities and the regions. this link is absolutely essential to help the objectives - whether binding or not - to achieve their full potential.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have just witnessed a german tragedy of blame. it's a bit like the late 1920s. as a fervent pro-european and a staunch supporter of the euro, i ask you: do you not see how you are putting the european union's great peace and economic project to the wall? daniel cohn-bendit was right when he said that we always react too late and always after the fact. now we must look ahead! don't you see what's happening out there? people are no longer interested in these red and black quarrels, neither in my country nor here in the european parliament, but they are interested in solutions. they're concerned about the safety of their money. and you have to be honest with them, that's not the case anymore. we must take the next step and say: yes, we must have the courage to cut the debt, we must finally make the banks pay, even if it affects our life insurance, and then we must build a new european political project that no longer has the problems of the lisbon treaty. we're trapped now. if this amendment is adopted, we shall see a 'no' vote in ireland. that's what you'd expect in my country. we have a huge problem in britain. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are talking about the summit on december 16th. it would be nice if we could hear from the council after the summit: we know the gaps, we know the mistakes, we know our failure and also the limits of the treaty. with complacency and blame, with embellishments and superficiality, we will not solve the problem and create trust. let us stop playing with europe, it's about europe. i agree with every word wolf klinz said. and as we are only a few days away from christmas, i say: light a candle of determination and unity, a candle of new seriousness and sincerity, of confidence in the future of the european union and a candle for a change of political course in europe, from crisis to competitiveness, from the spirit of deauville to political union, from saving to investment and reform, from monetary union to political union. the treaty supplement is a political crutch for the further development of the shield, not more and not less, because of germany's constitutional problems, not a solution. don't make it bigger than it is. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the face of the crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let us together demand from the commission a concept of economic, social and financial union so that we can decide the next step of integration with heads and nails by the end of next year.
i have to say, madam president, citizens' confidence in europe and in the euro has been severely weakened by the financial crisis and political maneuvering. the citizens need to have a clear, comprehensible and reliable long-term perspective for the security of their currency. the stability pact defined ceilings for the deficit and the total debt. however, its effectiveness is low. new rescue mechanisms will only find the necessary broad acceptance among citizens if they also provide for effective controls and sanctions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the european union's external borders. the existing system provides for sanctions. the future rescue mechanisms are: continuous monitoring, more rapid and coordinated action and effective sanctioning.
i have to say, madam president, i think you'll agree with me that it's a bad habit of some of my colleagues to ask questions and then walk away. i would like to apologise to the commissioner for this, because it is really unheard of for you to give detailed answers and for some colleagues to disappear before you do. i think we should work together to make sure that this doesn't happen again or not as often in the future.
i have to say, madam president, i am not a member of any of the committees directly involved, but i have nevertheless given our rapporteur, mrs gurmai, my full support and i would like to thank all the rapporteurs. i believe that a significant step forward has been made in the democratization of the european union. i know there are some people who are afraid of the potential misuse of the instrument. but it is up to us to respond to the concerns and needs of the citizens in politics, and then they will not be able to abuse this instrument. it is up to us in politics to argue with citizens' initiatives if we think they are going in the wrong direction. but arguing is certainly more sensible than denying. unlike mrs corazza bildt, i think that a good compromise has been found. i am in favour of political parties not needing the initiative instrument as such, because that is what political parties and this parliament are for. the fact that politicians cannot be excluded from the debate is absolutely right. so i think that a really good way forward has been shown here. it is now up to the political parties to pursue a correct policy under the watchful eye of the citizens and the citizens' initiatives, to take up the wishes and concerns of the citizens, to bring them to this parliament and to enter into a greater dialogue with the citizens. this instrument also forces politicians to act more sensibly and to shape europe in such a way that it is really close to the citizens and not pro-citizen, as many rightly criticise. once again, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work. i believe that it is a major step forward for democracy in europe, and it is what we are fighting for in this parliament: a democratic europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the mediterranean union is at stake here, and we know that it is at a standstill and that we want to see it revived. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the peoples of europe. i know that there is a contradiction here, and perhaps there is another way of putting it, but our way of putting it would be: the current impasse of the union for the mediterranean.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. could you tell us the name of the person in the secretariat who is responsible for the planning of the sitting and if he happens to be in the chamber?
in writing. the figures given in this report are utterly utopian. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources available are used to achieve the objectives. the adjustment of the financial framework to the proposals in the report does not increase the flexibility of the union, but rather limits it. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. − as with the last proposal to increase the 2011 budget, i had to reject this one in the interests of the citizens of europe. it is simply not clear why the eu is increasing its budget while savings programmes have to be launched all over europe. the new increase is again justified by the introduction of the lisbon treaty and the new institutions created by it, such as the edf. the fpö had already voted against the lisbon treaty, which, apart from a few positive aspects, mainly entails more bureaucracy and costs for citizens. the 2011 budget was therefore rejected!
in writing. − workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the financial and economic crisis should be given the opportunity to return to work quickly. the member states are obliged to take appropriate measures to assist those affected. the european union's globalisation adjustment fund shall provide funds for this purpose, which may be requested by member states. i am voting in favour of the report because the netherlands' claim is fully justified and all the criteria are met.
in writing. - this is just one of a large number of dutch motions which we have recently adopted in the committee on budgets. i naturally agreed with mrs matera's report on the use of the egf to help people who have lost their jobs in noord holland, because the very purpose of the egf is to provide individual support to people who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation. in the budget negotiations of the past few weeks, the dutch government has been at the forefront of the debate by its stubbornness against the legitimate positions of a european parliament which is always very willing to compromise. i would like to say on this point that it seems to be consistent with a national view of politics that i am happy to use double-digit eu aid of millions of euros, but at the same time refuse to have a legitimate debate on the substance of parliament's points.
in writing. - separations and divorces are always difficult and entail a rat's tail of legal consequences. the problem arises when the spouses are from different countries. the european union has sought a solution, but it has only been possible to agree on a procedure of enhanced cooperation, which offers only minimal relief to those affected, i.e. divorce parties from different eu member states. in fact, the scope of this procedure is not clear unless it is defined. of course, cooperation cannot mean that judgments such as divorce have to be recognised in a member state if they are not provided for by law. nor should the procedure provide a back door to recognition of same-sex marriages. nor was there any mention of parental rights in the event of crossborder separations. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − with 16 million binational marriages in the eu, of which an estimated 140,000 fail every year, negotiation and agreement on this issue was essential to ensure the necessary legal certainty for citizens. after several initiatives in this area have so far been vetoed by individual member states, the 'enhanced cooperation' procedure now gives at least 14 countries the opportunity to define the necessary criteria.
in writing. − the financial crisis has shown us more than anything else that rating agencies have a dangerous monopoly position and that their assessments are not always adequate and highly risky. it is therefore important to subject credit rating agencies to a control and supervision mechanism. since credit rating agencies operate in a very complex financial market system, it was decided to take this into account by means of a two-track system. the conditions under which credit ratings issued by agencies from third countries may be used in the european union have also been defined. the essential thing is, of course, that sanctions can be imposed as part of the supervision. the future will show how far and to what extent these will be applied. the fact that there are now more eu supervisory authorities in total, which means more administrative burden and costs, cannot be in the interest of the european taxpayer. i have taken this into account in my vote.
in writing. − the global financial crisis, to which the rating agencies have contributed, has made it necessary to subject rating agencies to a control and supervision mechanism. for this reason, the european securities and markets authority (esma) will start its work on 1 january 2011. at the same time, the continuing financial crisis and the continuous development of new knowledge on market mechanisms require that the tasks and powers of the authority are constantly adapted and, where appropriate, extended. for this reason, i welcome the clarifications and clarifications now presented on esma's powers in its relations with the competent national authorities. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − to date, eight eu directives have regulated measurement in six areas. the commission proposes to repeal the directives in the interests of better regulation. the commission also considered that there was no need for harmonisation, as the current situation of mutual recognition of national rules was well established. the rapporteur, however, suggests that member states should be given more time to verify whether the repeal does not create legal uncertainty. the report has my vote because the rapporteur should have taken account of the problems of legal uncertainty that have been raised.
in writing. − overall, small improvements were made to the original design. that is why i have agreed to parliament's report. however, i would like to point out that with this toothless citizens' initiative, there is still a glaring democratic deficit in the eu without any form of direct democracy. the next step must therefore be to introduce mandatory referendums on successful initiatives. the introduction of a mandatory public consultation of the initiators of adopted requests with the commission and parliament is to be welcomed. the member states are now required to implement the citizens' initiatives quickly, without harassment and excessive bureaucracy. the identity checks at the municipal office, as is usual in national referendums, will not be necessary to verify the declarations of support. the national electoral authorities should use sampling as proposed by the european parliament.
in writing. - i support the decision of the european parliament to open up the possibility of a 'citizens' initiative' to eu citizens. the new eu-wide referendum is an important tool for citizen participation and ensures more direct democracy. the treaty on european union as a whole leads to an improvement in the democratic functioning of the union. citizens can participate directly in the life of the union and can address the commission directly. the citizens' initiative thus amounts to a right of initiative on a par with that of the european parliament and the council. for proper implementation, the support of at least one million signatories from at least one fifth of all member states is required. the parliament also recommends measures to facilitate the implementation of the citizens' initiative. for example, the commission should promote programmes to promote mobility and active citizenship and new forms of communication such as social networks in public debate. i welcome the fact that the respective representations and offices of the countries are to assist as interfaces and advisory bodies.
in writing. − the european citizens' initiative is a first tiny step in the right direction. i voted for it because it is the first direct democratic instrument in the eu. but on the whole, the citizens' initiative is nothing more than a fig leaf of direct democracy, which is supposed to convince the citizens that they can have a say in the european union. because the citizens' initiative has no consequences, even if it is signed by so many people. the parallels with the popular demands in austria are obvious. in austria, popular demands are usually shelved, and the eu citizens' initiatives will not be much different. the citizens' demands also seem to have been made to ensure that nonconformist opinions can be suppressed. the commission is the final authority in the process of assessing the admissibility of a citizens' request. in the real european union, the rulers not only make the laws and directives, but also want to control the will of the citizens. but at least the european citizens' initiative gives non-conformist movements and parties the opportunity to raise awareness. as in austria, it will be possible in future to campaign at eu level and show citizens that there are ways to build a different, better europe beyond the dead ends of brussels.
in writing. - today's vote on the european citizens' initiative has introduced a new element of direct democracy - almost exactly one year after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. i have taken up my mandate in the european parliament with the aim of bringing the concerns of austrians to the table in brussels. i am committed to this principle, and it is therefore essential for me that the concerns of the people be heard at european level. the european citizens' initiative is an opportunity to involve people more closely in the eu's decision-making process. for the first time, eu citizens have the opportunity to present a legislative initiative to the european commission and thereby actively participate in shaping eu policy. after lengthy negotiations, it can be considered a success that the threshold of 300,000 signatures has been lowered and the number of member states required reduced to 1⁄4 of the total. a peculiar feature of austria is that participation in a citizens' initiative is permitted from the age of 16. this shows once again that austria is keen to involve young people in the overall eu project, because after all it is they who should carry forward the european idea.
in writing. − in 2011, the commission will present the proposal for the multiannual financial framework 2013-2020. i am clear that the agricultural and rural development sector must continue to be protected to the same extent as before, and that food sovereignty for european citizens must be guaranteed. the production of food and the revitalization of rural areas as economic and recreational areas must continue to be a priority for europe. the commission's commitment to sustainable and inclusive growth takes into account the 2020 environmental and climate objectives and calls for investment in green technologies, which will create jobs. i also welcome the parliament's call for the new multiannual financial framework for the period after 2013 to take account of the enlargement of the eu's competences. the eu's trade policy plans are of great importance. the commission is urged to bring the wto negotiations to a successful conclusion. the increasing focus on bilateral trade agreements is very critical, especially the mercosur negotiations which will continue next year.
in writing. − it is important that the eu engages intensively with african states and addresses existing and future challenges with a common strategy. this includes in particular the democratisation of africa, the improvement of the living conditions of the people in africa, but also the sustainable extraction of raw materials, which benefits both sides. another problem area that needs to be eliminated is corruption. it is preventing many african countries from developing for the benefit of their citizens. unfortunately, millions of eu aid money are also being diverted into obscure channels, instead of being used in a meaningful way and being made available to citizens. the principle must be applied: help for self-help. unfortunately, the resolution does not refer to this and merely continues the practice of the past. poverty is also a major reason for emigration from africa and immigration to europe. instead of questioning the european practice of export subsidies, which seriously undermines the self-sustainability of african states, they lose themselves in empty words. the negative consequences of migration are better described. i therefore had no choice but to reject this resolution.
in writing. − human rights and fundamental freedoms play a central role in democracy and the rule of law. it is therefore necessary to ensure that these fundamental values can be safeguarded in the european union in all cases. the right to freedom of thought, religion, assembly and association, as well as the right to freedom of movement and the right to the inviolability of the person and respect for human dignity, are fundamental pillars of a free society. i did not vote for the report because it did not deal with christian values and the restrictions imposed on national citizens by immigration.
in writing. − the eu's accession to the echr, as envisaged by the lisbon treaty, is problematic. this means that the eu submits to the fundamental rights review by the ecthr. the court of justice has also been called upon to take account of the fact that the european parliament has been given the power to adopt decisions on the basis of the treaty on european union. the cross is a symbol of christianity and one of the foundations of europe and our fundamental values. the ecj has also recently used unorthodox jurisprudence, as in the dublin ii case, to try to prevent deportations from austria to greece. if the echr were to prevail, the member states with the best social benefits would have to bear the full burden of refugees in the eu. this echr ruling is not in the spirit of better integration of refugees and not a proper approach to address the eu's asylum challenges. in addition, the neutrality of the ecthr judges is not guaranteed, as one of the judges himself admitted that he would deal with complaints from asylum seekers more thoroughly than in other cases. special treatment for certain complainants is to be refused in a court of law. the european court of justice also has a judge from turkey, where human rights are not respected and eu territories are occupied by military forces. the echr is not for me a european court, nor a court of human rights. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − new media, especially social networks and blogs, are opening up new opportunities for communication and advertising. the opportunities offered by internet marketing, however, are accompanied by increased requirements for consumer protection law. the current directive on unfair commercial practices in intra-community trade between businesses and consumers does not currently provide for these new advertising techniques. young consumers, especially adolescents and children, are highly exposed to these new technologies and may be exposed to misleading and aggressive advertising. the eu kids online study shows that already one third of 9-10 year olds use the internet daily, compared with 77% of 15-16 year olds. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i support the decision to increase consumer awareness of the new technical communication possibilities and their risks.
in writing. − advertising is a powerful tool of the economy, partly designed to appeal to the subconscious. the purpose of advertising is to influence consumer and consumer behaviour. however, unfair business practices must be clearly excluded. the protection of public spaces and vulnerable persons, as well as privacy, is of particular importance. the analysis of whether advertising has crossed these boundaries is naturally a rather time-consuming undertaking. the sensitive areas of so-called everyday drugs, such as alcohol and cigarettes, have long been subject to strict regulations. other areas should continue to be subject to self-regulation in the member states, as a complement to the legislation. the need to catch up is not limited to internet advertising, where certain areas of cost-sharing are hidden and where the use of new technologies and advertising practices such as social networks or blogs are still new. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is protected from the dangers of advertising and similar problematic advertising tactics.
in writing. - advertising on the internet is adapted to user behaviour. a user profile allows advertisers to target their ads more effectively and without any scatter loss. however, according to surveys, users largely reject these personalized online advertisements, often consider them too intrusive, and many even feel that they are being watched. 62% of respondents are concerned that privacy is being violated in personalised advertising, and indeed, privacy advocates are concerned, as personal data is stored, matched and linked. in theory, any user can disable the option but the link is not easy to find, so this report suggests that rejecting further advertising messages is facilitated by a direct and functioning internet link. the report also provides that consumers must be fully informed about the collection, processing and use of their data and that their data must not be compared with data collected in the context of advertising activities. the content of private e-mails must not be misused for advertising purposes and the default setting of internet privacy protection systems (built-in privacy) must be promoted.
in writing. − improving energy efficiency across the eu is a key requirement for a sustainable european energy strategy. it is the most cost-effective and fastest way of reducing co2 emissions while increasing security of supply. i welcome the fact that the report highlights increased investment in energy efficiency in buildings, the creation of new jobs in the construction sector and in smes, and that these measures can help households to reduce their expenditure by up to eur 1 000. the need to improve the energy efficiency of the whole transport system by shifting transport from energy-intensive modes such as lorries and cars to energy-saving modes such as rail is also highlighted. i welcome the aspects of the report which call on the commission and the member states to give due consideration to the field of energy efficiency, while ensuring that the many legal requirements already in place at eu and national level in this area are also respected.
in writing. − energy efficiency is a field with great future potential, where the eu has already gained a lot of experience and where the leading technology players are located in the eu member states. in addition to the obvious environmental benefits, this sector also has the potential to stimulate economic growth and create jobs. but as history has shown, the eu sets itself great goals, which it then faces problems in achieving or sometimes exceeds. like with buildings. of course, these can offer enormous potential for energy savings. this is much easier to observe in new buildings than in existing old buildings. in particular, problems arise with buildings which are protected as monuments. finally, we must not go so far as to impose energy efficiency measures which are so expensive to implement that people cannot afford to live in them. i voted accordingly.
i have to say, madam president, the media have just reported that the board of directors of the german bank pleitebank hre has acquired luxury pension rights for almost two years of work, from contracts concluded when this bank was already receiving massive state aid. this confirms the view of the union's citizens that the banks are being given money while ordinary citizens are being massively saved. article 9 of the lisbon treaty speaks of 'a high level of employment with adequate social protection'. this is a clear insult to those people in europe who have been hit particularly hard by the financial and economic crisis and who are now saving. if, for example, the pension reform in hungary is withdrawn and citizens have to switch back to the state pension system or lose 70% of their pension entitlements, then this shows the icy wind blowing in the eu. the european council also welcomed the commission's intention to make a significant contribution to the fight against fraud and corruption. i think the opposite is true. too much centralism and too much egalitarianism.
i have to say, madam president, when china calls for a boycott of the nobel peace prize, and then iraq and afghanistan follow suit, governments that came to power with western military aid, then this is an example to me of how hard it is for governments with apparently islamic characteristics to deal with human rights. in this context, the increasing persecution of christian minorities in the middle east and the cases of discrimination and intolerance against christians in europe are also of great concern. the eu must not allow the growing problems of forced marriage, honour killings, violence against women and the call for sharia to be ignored in muslim circles. the most serious objection i have to make is to cultural relativism, which, under the pretext of respect for other cultures and traditions, tolerates the restriction of the right of freedom, equality and participation of people in parts of the muslim world.
i have to say, madam president, civilization is measured not only by its technological progress and prosperity, but increasingly also by its respect for human dignity. this quote is from a program on "human rights in the 21st century" and should serve as a warning to us. the eu's credibility in this area is not a given, and our policy is not immune to double standards. the ead would now enable us to put into practice the words we say every thursday afternoon at the latest. human rights must be reflected in all areas of eu foreign policy. i too welcome a comprehensive review of the effectiveness of all eu instruments in this area, because it is quite obvious that the problem is not the political will to make strong demands, but their enforcement.
i have to say, madam president, the eu's increased engagement on human rights and the explicit mention in these reports of the persecution and discrimination of christian minorities is a step in the right direction. in many countries, some of which have good relations with the eu, christians are brutally persecuted. i would like to mention a few examples: in egypt, iran, iraq and, of course, turkey, christians are struggling to survive, both economically and physically. in order to force these countries to be more tolerant and to protect their minorities, no new post, such as the proposed special representative for human rights, is necessary. this creates unnecessary costs with questionable efficiency, because there are enough printing media. we must take concrete action: no treaty with the eu, no flow of funds without a commitment to respect human rights and to protect minorities, especially christians. ladies and gentlemen, financial arguments are very powerful, especially when humanitarian arguments do not help. and most importantly, they are well understood worldwide.
in writing. the eu's intention to become more active in human rights and to explicitly address persecution and discrimination against christian minorities in this report is in principle a step in the right direction. in many countries, some of which have good relations with the eu - and i will give just a few examples - christians are still being brutally persecuted. in egypt, iran and iraq and turkey, christians are fighting for their very survival. economically but also physically. to encourage these countries to be more tolerant and to protect their minorities - not to say compel them - is not to create a new post like the proposed "human rights ombudsman". this only creates unnecessary costs with dubious efficiency. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. we must take concrete measures here: no treaty with the eu and no flow of funds without a commitment to respect human rights and to protect minorities, especially christians. financial arguments are among the most powerful and they are understood worldwide!
i have to say, madam president, there was talk of a historic breakthrough at the nato summit. the german-french dispute over nuclear disarmament has now been settled, but in fact nuclear weapons will not be possible to do without in the future. because that would make the nato countries vulnerable to blackmail by tehran or pyongyang. in fact, a world without nuclear weapons, even without dictatorial regimes, will remain an illusion as long as some states are not taken seriously until they have become potential or actual nuclear powers. it is also regrettable that a rather unpleasant subject for the united states was avoided at this summit, namely how the situation in the middle east should proceed after the decision to withdraw us forces from iraq. the much-cited turnaround in russian foreign policy is also likely to prove, on closer examination, to be nothing more than a tactically clever move. and for the areas of terrorism and cyber warfare, there were declarations of intent rather than actual concepts. i think that this nato summit was far from a breakthrough.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the nato summit was a clear step forward. it's good that this is being worked out. new strategic elements such as civilian crisis management and cyber defence are pointing in the right direction. the strengthening of the strategic partnership between nato and the european union is of crucial importance, especially for small and neutral countries such as austria. the development of military capabilities through greater synergy, through the elimination of duplication, through defence cooperation, helps all but particularly small member countries. but there is still a lot to do, there is a lot to do, especially with us. europe must face up to its homework and do it. the initiative of the french, german and polish foreign ministers is heading in the right direction. we need a european defence architecture in the medium term, which promotes military cooperation between eu countries, which combines civil and military cooperation between the eu, the un and nato, which gradually builds up its own european defence structures. it must be our goal to become a relevant security partner in this world. we should work on that.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not this regulation, which is being discussed today, has not received much attention in all the committees for a long time. but now, at the end, when the result was in, some people in this house woke up. i am sorry that some of them have not appeared for the debate, but it would have been very interesting to hear their views. as a former member of the convention, i remember the spirit of the convention very clearly. in many areas, it was clearly demanded that the european parliament should be given certain rights in order to be and remain credible within the institutions and with regard to the citizens. despite the convention's demands, we were given nothing. it was extremely difficult negotiations, led in particular by the belgian presidency with the council, which made it possible to achieve some important progress. i would remind you that what mr lehne has already said is that it is a question of the constant possibility of checking whether the commission has exceeded its powers. of course, there are some regulations which are not quite so ideal, such as international trade agreements, but i can nevertheless agree with the result. i thank the belgian presidency. it has really gotten very behind that something is happening, and i thank our rapporteur for negotiating with heart and brain.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a seal like that makes sense, but under two conditions: first, that it actually creates visibility, that it's also perceived, because there are many seals. secondly, the bureaucracy involved does not become independent again, as is the case with so many similar initiatives and eu institutions. it would be a travesty of the european cultural tradition if something which can help us a great deal, which clearly positions us in contrast to the way in which china treats ancient culture, in contrast to the way in which the united states for historical reasons only very partially presents such cultural sites, were to reveal that with a lot of bureaucracy and effort, only posts are created. we must be clear about one thing: the ideas that give meaning, the visions, the things that are invoked here over and over again, but so little lived, come from culture. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. i am thinking here of very specific support for writers and other people, but independently and apart from these bureaucratic organizations and institutions which have thus become independent within the european framework.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you, mr scurria. i appreciate what you said about the substance. i would just like to ask you, as the representative of the largest group in this house, how you assess the problem of the possibility of too much bureaucracy in the administration and implementation of this heritage seal, what ideas you have on how to keep this in a certain scale and framework, so that not too many juries are constantly assembled and in reality what we all want is not really achieved - namely visible seals that are also perceived accordingly in the media.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very pleased that this initiative, which already exists in some member states, has now found its way into our european union. it was also very right to introduce a two-year cycle for the awards. i would also like to thank the rapporteur in this connection. i am concerned, however, that we must succeed in establishing a distinction between this seal and the unesco world heritage site and in identifying the european characteristics of this seal. otherwise, it will be difficult for our citizens to decide why this particular seal has a special european significance. i also looked at the sites that have been awarded by the member states so far and found that they are primarily buildings in nature. the idea we had in the committee on culture and education was not just to award buildings, of course buildings too, but above all values and other sites or experiences which have to do with the development of europe. that brings me to the last point of my remarks. it will be of particular importance that the jury is composed of persons of corresponding knowledge, who have internalized and will continue to pursue these objectives. we should not be afraid of the bureaucracy that might arise.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. understandably, switzerland, which is also a financial contributor to the youth in action and lifelong learning programmes, now wants to take advantage of them. but it would also be good for the eu to learn from switzerland's example of direct democracy. if the people there vote against minaret, it will be accepted as well as the recent abolition initiative, and switzerland knows that a popular 'no' is also a 'no' and that you don't just vote as often until the result is right, as happened in the eu, for example in ireland. the initial rejection of the then constitutional treaty for europe may have made it easier for some swiss to opt for schengen and dublin. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union. this is also true of those voices which are currently calling for accession from switzerland. the union is not all gloom and doom, there are increasingly more centralistic tendencies and the trend is increasingly towards a transfer union. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have the feeling - and i think everyone here has - that switzerland could in this way move step by step closer to europe, and eventually, and hopefully soon, become a full member of the european union, which is certainly desirable. this white spot in the middle of europe, if you look at the map, should really inspire us. youth in action brings the number of participants to around 1 million, that is our estimate. the idea is prevalent and it is very important that youth organisations take part in it. so this is a sign to the next generation to be particularly active here. i too must thank doris pack very much for her efforts. we must move from the union to other countries, in this case switzerland in particular, because that is the only way we can succeed. just waiting for it to say 'please let us into the european union' will probably be too little in times like these. the financial resources of the committee on culture and education in particular give us reason to hope that switzerland will soon be involved in other programmes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is clear to all of us that the health of animals, and therefore of course of humans, must be a priority. we have a better life project in the stoa scientific committee, where we are doing technology options assessment, which is about improving the future conditions in the field of food and feeding accordingly. i therefore ask the commissioner to ensure that, particularly with regard to the 8th framework research programme, research programmes in the food and feed sector are strengthened so that food safety and animal and human health are better investigated in this area and we can prepare corresponding documents for the citizens of europe in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to thank the sitting service for the fact that we are finished today, for example, 15 minutes before the vote and that there can therefore be no chaos in the plenary. for the public, this orderly procedure is exemplary. i would like to thank the committee on budgets for its work.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to say that we have a free vote on the second part of this motion and on the next one. thank you, sir.
in writing. − the fact that member states are free to participate in the european heritage label calls its effectiveness into question. in addition, and i agree with the rapporteur, the selection criteria proposed so far and the large number of sites eligible for the label could affect the quality and prestige of the sites. closer cooperation with existing heritage initiatives such as unesco world heritage might be more appropriate. i did not vote for the report because it does not sufficiently address the need to introduce a cultural heritage label based on the stated objectives.
in writing. - switzerland, which is also a financial contributor to the youth in action and lifelong learning programmes, naturally wants to take advantage of them. the eu should learn from switzerland's example of direct democracy. if the people there speak out against the minaret, it is accepted as much as the recent "abolition initiative". and switzerland knows that a popular no means no and you don't just vote as often until the result is right and then perhaps even wonder about the declining voter turnout. last but not least, the swiss example should also give us a glimpse of the concerns that people have. i cannot fully agree with the rules in this report, which is why i rejected it.
in writing. − the 2009 world report on human rights is very comprehensive and addresses a wide range of issues. unfortunately, it seems to me that there has been a frantic attempt to cover all the possible issues without a clear strategy. the promotion of democracy in the world must indeed be an important concern of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national experts in the field of environmental protection. i am sorry that this is not the case, but i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - the rapporteur has generally been quite right in his assessment of the situation in afghanistan. he is aware that the resources and troops in afghanistan have been used in the wrong way and that neither more resources nor more troops will change that. he has rightly recognised that it is the very presence and arrogance of the coalition that is causing the deep-seated rejection by the population. he also knows that it will not work to force the afghan people to accept democracy and western values. but it is to be criticised that he continues to insist on issues such as women's rights, which are very important but totally unacceptable locally, making the whole peace process even more unlikely. the rapporteur also calls for more troops and more funds for afghanistan, despite the negative impact. i am convinced that the war in afghanistan is an unjust war and that the continued occupation of the country is not in the interests of either europe or afghanistan. europe is not defended by the hindu kush. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. the european union's member states which are taking part in the war in afghanistan on the side of the united states should withdraw their troops from that country as soon as possible. the war in afghanistan is now nearly nine years old, and there is no sign of improvement in the security situation. on the contrary, the islamist taliban are growing stronger. europe is wasting resources that it desperately needs at other critical points, such as the eu's borders in the balkans. it is not clear, in principle, what european interests are to be defended in the hindu kush. it is less about how the us claims to be building a western-style democracy in afghanistan. rather, economic interests are at the center of the debate, especially since, according to the new york times, afghanistan is believed to have buried about a trillion dollars' worth of mineral resources. the eu is obviously supposed to help us corporations to exploit them unhindered. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - there has always been a desire for centralisation within the european union. these seem to have increased even more, as has bureaucracy, despite all claims to the contrary. it is still up to the member states to decide which powers they wish to delegate to the eu and which to the commission. this is something that cannot be changed by judgments of the european court of justice, which has for years been advocating a central state in its judgments, nor can the treaty of lisbon be invoked in this regard or introduced through the back door under the pretext of crisis management. in theory, there is a clear commitment to the principle of subsidiarity, but in practice it is constantly ignored and tricked. i welcome the report because it is fundamentally opposed to these tendencies.
in writing. - what is presented to us here as a motion for a resolution with the faint title 'creating a crisis mechanism' is the desperate attempt of the eu imperialists to bind the eu member states in a common euro-destiny by force, under the motto 'stand together or perish together'. the euro was a complete misconception and doomed from the start. the european union is not a mere economic union, but a political union. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union. i am therefore in favour of an end to terror instead of terror without end and therefore strongly against this resolution.
in writing. - the political situation in côte d'ivoire is extremely critical. i am of the opinion that the european union should not play the role of world policeman, because foreign nations must be able to determine their own destiny without having to rely on the sanctus of the eu or the usa. in this case, however, it is not the will of the ivorian people that is at issue, but the tyrannical subjugation of this people by its established class. in europe, we also had the situation a few years ago where people were forced by political powers to adopt an undesirable form of state by military means. it is important that these rulers are not removed from their positions by military means. but it is also important to apply pressure on these people by peaceful means to make it more difficult for them to continue their unjust policies. that is why i voted for this resolution.
in writing. - it is difficult to understand how it is that eleven years after the adoption of a regulation, so few provisions have been made for its entry into force. this is primarily the fault of the commission, which has often in the past relativized its previous rules and thus made it possible for them not to be taken seriously. if it does happen that this is again a lazy compromise, it will undermine the eu's credibility once again. i very much hope that by 1 january 2012 there will be no more illegal batteries on the market or at least that they will be subject to such high penalties that they will no longer represent a competitive advantage. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
