mr president, as mrs joly has already said, there are times when words and figures lose all meaning, become ridiculous: 2 million refugees - we have heard it - perhaps more, more than 200 000 dead, a country that is devastated, a capital that is almost wiped off the map. the urgent task now is to exhume the last survivors, if there are any, to bury the dead, to feed the living, to distribute water, to treat, to operate and to rebuild. each country left quickly, very quickly, with its means, its equipment, its dogs, its men and its generosity. the effort is immense, it is magnificent, but it is national. europe must now become more powerful and give substance to the idea that we are certain, many of us, to defend, here in the european parliament and elsewhere for some years, the implementation of a european civil intervention force, green helmets or white helmets, regardless of colour, men, means and common strategies. eu-fast, the initiative launched in 2003 by guy verhofstadt, or europaid launched in 2006 by michel barnier, it doesn't matter who the father is, the idea is the ability to act quickly, to be ready together.
mr president, iran is undoubtedly going through the most serious crisis in its history since 1979, due to the fault of this hermetic regime, which has increased, since the electoral farce of 12 june, the targeted assassinations of opponents, the roundups, the imprisonment of peaceful demonstrators, including journalists. at the beginning of the debate, mrs ashton referred to the reports by the ngos, which are catastrophic in this respect, not to mention the travesty of justice reserved for the frenchwoman clotilde reiss, the minority baha'i - seven of whom have been on trial since last monday in tehran. they risk life imprisonment or worse, simply because their religion is not that of the government. the fact is that the presidential elections have not changed anything, or rather, they have further radicalized, if that were possible, the iranian regime, radicalization also vis-à-vis the outside, with the reversal of these iranian authorities on the draft nuclear agreement negotiated in october 2009 in vienna. when will we consider - and i am talking about here - intelligent and targeted sanctions, as mrs lochbihler said, sanctions against this regime which is openly anti-western and anti-semitic? i know that this window of opportunity is narrow, madam high representative, but don't you think that we should do more and better here, help the iranian youth, who are crying out their revolt on the internet, denounce the recurring calls for the destruction of the state of israel and, above all, support this civil society and the opposition, this democratic movement that challenges this vote-stealing president and his militias? we must avoid escalation, i am well aware of that, but we must also avoid stealth and not repeat the mistake we made in afghanistan where europe did not know, could not protect commander massoud. it is our duty to support the leaders of the iranian opposition to prevent them from suffering the same fate.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i too would like to congratulate mrs joly on the accuracy and rigour of her report and on the very adequate analysis contained in it. the second revision of the cotonou agreement must strengthen the lomé acquis while consolidating unity, cohesion and solidarity among the acp states. the agreement must of course also guarantee that the latter take ownership of their development policy. the programming, review and monitoring of the agreement should therefore also be the prerogative of the parliaments of our partner countries. i know that this is obviously an extremely important challenge, but i think we must make a special effort to stimulate these parliaments. this is an expectation which we must also express very openly to the authorities of our partner countries. some governments, as you know, are reluctant to encourage parliamentary debate in their own countries. i also call for a strengthening of democratic control and the role of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, in particular by including provisions in the cotonou agreement which would allow the acp to receive national and regional strategy papers for discussion. i believe that in future national and regional parliaments must also be consulted much more systematically on the process of drawing up regional and national strategy papers. a word on the organization of the work of the joint parliamentary assembly: i think that two sessions should be held. to reduce them to one session would send a very negative signal to our partners. perhaps regional meetings should be organised in a more restricted way; on 25 january i shall make concrete proposals to the bureau of the joint parliamentary assembly to that effect. in the interests of consistency and efficiency, i insist that the parliamentary bodies responsible for monitoring the epas be set up on the basis of the apa to guarantee much better their development dimension. i welcome your comments, commissioner, because you have been quite clear on this statement as the next commerce commissioner. i do not doubt for a moment that you are sincere when you say that you want to give these economic partnership agreements this development dimension. finally, the revision of the cotonou agreement should provide for an increase in aid and financing to acp countries to help them take action to deal with climate change.
mr president, article 13 of the cotonou agreement has not been revised since 2000. it touches on a sensitive subject: the dialogue between the european union and the acp countries on immigration, the fair treatment of immigrants, the principles of non-refoulement, the root causes of immigration and, finally, the fight against illegal immigration and readmission, and it is on these two aspects that the european union has mainly focused. the crude absence of a common immigration policy, which is in keeping with the values that europe demands, risks reinforcing the repressive approach and the hunt for illegal immigrants in the proposed revision of article 13. the tragic example of the bilateral agreement between italy and libya, which led to intolerable humanitarian situations, does not seem to have discouraged the zeal of those who want to tighten article 13 to strengthen the fight against illegal immigration. and in some countries - i am thinking of calabria - the hunt for illegal immigrants is now open and ruthless. instead of being driven by the fears of the current crisis, we must remember the synergy that must be established between immigration and development. if the acp countries need help to get their economies off the ground, we will need immigration to cope with the crisis we are facing. the focus should therefore be on legal immigration and mobility. they are the only safeguards against the hateful climate that is creeping into our own countries.
mr president, i too would like to express my support for the very good report by my colleague, mrs joly. the acp-eu partnership is more necessary than ever, and the tragedy in haiti shows how essential the acp-eu partnership is, and that it certainly needs to be strengthened. so i would like to - it is a particular thing to speak to a commissioner responsible for development today, who will be responsible for trade tomorrow, to talk about all this - and to make three suggestions in this connection. the first is, as others have said before me, to maintain two annual meetings, not just one, for parliamentary and assembly control. secondly, why not subject economic partnership agreements to parliamentary control rather than to a strictly commercial logic in the case of the acp, so that, here too, parliaments can be involved and held accountable for monitoring the impact of economic partnership agreements on the people and defending their interests in this context.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have two priorities for the spanish presidency. i think you have, in fact, two priorities. although we will be publishing many cases which will be closed in the next six months, we believe there are two major cases. firstly, there is the post-lisbon strategy, eu 2020. i think, in any case, that this name is more appropriate because, in the end, the population no longer distinguished between the lisbon treaty and the lisbon strategies. so this is already a huge step forward. but we have to be serious here, with each other. the fundamental question is not whether we want to reduce unemployment, whether we want to increase spending on innovation. on that, everyone agrees. we agreed in 2000, we will agree in 2010, we will agree again in 2020, in 2030. no, the question is elsewhere: are the council, the member states, finally ready to change the method that failed in the lisbon strategy? i am referring to the open method of coordination, a good expression for saying that it is the member states who decide, not the union, and that all we do is compare the results of the different member states. it is as if the union had become the oecd. this is the reality: publishing documents, documents and more documents. (applause) i would like to thank i am very encouraged by your first statements, mr president: 'yes, we are going to change'. we need change, we need sticks, we need carrots. if necessary, sanctions are needed. and we must not be discouraged - i say this to you and to miguel moratinos frankly - by the german minister for economic affairs, who has not waited a moment to criticize your proposals. but you have to be a good omen! we cannot say that greece is not doing enough, for example, or that other countries are not doing enough, and at the same time not give the commission and the european union the means and instruments to intervene. it's either one or the other! you can't say both things at the same time. i therefore encourage you to continue along this path, and i can tell you that this whole parliament is behind you, with the commission, in confronting those who still refuse to hear about the need to step up this lisbon method. so my second priority is to try to find another strategy for the post-copenhagen, for the climate change issue. we have to admit that our approach has failed. you have to say it, you have to admit it. it makes no sense to say "yes, but we were right, this was the right method, etc". no, that was the wrong way. the strategy was wrong, because the result is wrong. so we need to change our strategy. what i am personally proposing is a strategy based on three elements. the first is that we must appoint a figure within the european union who is responsible for the matter, a mr or mrs climate change, who would have the competence to negotiate on behalf of the 27 member states, not as was the case in copenhagen, where the danish prime minister, the swedish prime minister, the president of the commission, mr sarkozy, mrs merkel, yourself, mr brown were present. this made at least eight european political leaders willing to negotiate. but there wasn't enough room around the table! even mr. obama had barely enough room. there was the south african, the brazilian, the indian, the chinese, then obama, and then there were the eight europeans. how can we take a stand under these circumstances and be heard by others? so we have to do what the wto does. the wto is working. there is someone who is responsible, who negotiates for the whole european union, and who gets results. well, we need to do the same at european level and avoid repeating what we did in copenhagen. (applause) and i think we have to be realistic about that. you have to be realistic about this. we need to get a trilateral agreement between the us, europe and china. that is what we must aim for. all these strategies of saying "yes, we'll see", without an ally in the united nations, that doesn't count in the world of the future. the world of the future is the world of empires, and we must be an empire. that means we have to be present around the table. with who? with the united states and with china. it's between these three that we need to have an agreement; let's not start dreaming, let's not start bringing together i don't know how many countries around a program. in the end, we must first create an alliance with the americans. it is with them that one must have found a common interest. and this common interest is, in my view, the mechanism of emissions trading. we have that, and they will follow us if we get a deal on this. then we'll have a common interest in negotiating together with the chinese. these, mr president, are the two main priorities i see for the spanish presidency, and i am convinced that with his tenacity mr zapatero will make this a very important and very effective presidency. (applause) i would like to thank
the statements by the spanish presidency on immigration policy, and on border controls in particular, are characterized by a very peculiar combination of hot and cold. the spanish creed in particular that such matters should be regulated at european level is rather hollow when one considers that spain has only just completed such a massive legalisation of illegal immigrants, the cost of which the more - let us say - northern european countries may soon share without ever having a say in it. i have also noticed that the spanish presidency continues to advocate an active immigration policy at a time of very severe economic crisis, when no one knows how many millions of europeans are out of work, how many millions of europeans are unemployed. what we really need is closed borders, a real immigration moratorium and, of course, economic support for countries that need it. the further mass immigration you advocate can only lead to mass problems.
i voted against the jolly report, mr president, although i think we all agree on one of the central points of the report, namely that we must pursue a policy aimed at promoting the economic development of the african countries themselves, so that brain drain can be prevented and the educated africans can finally devote themselves to the development of their own country. i understand and support that. but why, in the same report, do we so stubbornly advocate a policy of new emigration from african countries and new immigration into europe? this is what is encouraging the brain drain of the most skilled, the most dynamic, the most enterprising africans. i keep saying that this so-called 'blue card' is disastrous for europe and also particularly harmful for africa and for africans. the so-called circular migration of which we speak last but not least is an illusion, because those immigrants are not going home and we are creating a new breeding ground for illegality.
president, paragraph 31 of the jolly report alone was enough to vote against, which calls on the commission to incorporate the principle of circular migration and facilitating it by issuing circular visas. the so-called circular migration is a fata morgana. it's something that exists in official eu documents, for example, but it doesn't exist in the real world - with a few exceptions. circular migration is when an immigrant with a limited residence permit, after expiry of validity, still stays in europe and then plunges into illegality. this is the reality of what is known as circular migration. circular migration is a driver of illegal immigration. the commission knows that. parliament knows that. yet, the term is used again and again, because people think that many immigrants eventually return to their country of origin. so it would be good if we stopped camouflaging reality as soon as possible.
in writing. − the cotonou agreement - which dates from 2000 and sets out the cooperation between the eu and the acp countries - is revised every five years. the aim is to eradicate poverty and gradually integrate the acp countries into the world economy, while maintaining the objective of sustainable development. the review comes at a time of global financial crisis, rapid climate change, food and energy prices under pressure, and the debate over land use and the sustainability of foreign investment. it is high time to provide for a strengthening of parliamentary scrutiny of the country strategies and the edf and to seek consistency in trade, foreign and development policies. it's time to tackle climate change holistically and make a big push for renewable energy. it is time to tackle illicit money flows from developing countries and to reform the eib's policy towards greater transparency on tax havens. it's time to recognize that land ownership and clean water are fundamental rights. time to admit that fair access to natural resources can really lift people out of poverty. the report stresses this. that's why i support it.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us begin with the good news that the spanish presidency has announced that the document will be sent on monday 25 january. i have noted that, that is to say, next monday. so that means that we now have one week to deal with this in parliament; that's the reality. i will ask, mr president, - i have already announced this and i hope to have the support of the other groups - that the conference of presidents decide to hold both a committee meeting and a plenary session to deal with this interim agreement, because it makes no sense to let it enter into force on 1 february without dealing with the subject in session. there are two possibilities, mr. secretary of state. there is the possibility of saying yes and there is the possibility of saying no. i can tell you that the answer is yes, subject to certain conditions, and that we must know this and obtain an answer before the 25th. we have not received a reply to the conditions which parliament has put forward. the conditions are as follows: first, that parliament should be able to participate fully in the information, that it should receive all the necessary information. secondly, that we should be involved in the negotiations on the final agreement, as a parliament. and thirdly, there are the nine specific conditions, in all, which the committee on civil liberties put forward in its resolution, which was approved by parliament, on the very content of the agreement. our request to you is very simple: not only do you need to transfer the interim agreement on the 25th, but you also need to attach to it a response to these three demands of parliament. if you answer all three of our requests in the affirmative, then we can consider approving the agreement. otherwise, i think it will be more like - that is the view of my group at any rate - a negative vote. it should be noted that a negative vote will mean that the interim agreement will not apply on 1 february. that is the situation at present and i shall therefore, in any case, ask the conference of presidents tomorrow to both convene an appropriate committee on the matter and to hold a plenary session to discuss this interim agreement.
mr president, i support the environmental goals for 2020, but i have some serious doubts about some methods. the copenhagen conference was a good example of a bad method. and what were the lessons? the conference was too massive to be productive: a rock concert of 50 000 people is possible; a meeting, not. secondly, europe was outfoxed by china and india, and the us joined in. instead of being a decisive player, the eu was a confused spectator. what should we do? i think we have to reassess the form we used, rather a g20 than an event of woodstock proportions. secondly, we have to stop displaying moral arrogance by telling china and india what to do. important barriers to punish both countries would be disastrous. on the contrary, the eu should re-examine its own stance, which will ultimately undermine our own growth and employment. finally, we need serious research on the body of evidence. ‘climategate’ was already a reminder, and the claim that the himalayan glaciers are retreating now seems to be based on speculation. some members of the ipcc now even predict global cooling. we need objective, impartial scientific research, and not an agenda-driven political activism. what is true and what is not: at present, we simply do not know, and i think we need to have the facts right, first. commissioner, minister, i hope you will look at these questions with an open mind.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. the summit has failed. we're miles from our objectives. the next few months will have to show whether there is still room for improvement. but i believe, and this has been said by others, that we can still do a lot of things ourselves, even without a global un agreement. i'm thinking in particular about what we can do to get to a more sustainable transport system. the targets prescribed that we would try to reduce aviation emissions by 10% by 2020 through the international civil aviation organization (icao), but also to achieve a 20% reduction in maritime emissions through the international maritime organization. i would ask the council and the commission to continue negotiations within these organizations and to increase pressure by preparing unilateral measures now if an agreement is not possible in the relatively short term. in the meantime, of course, we can do a lot of homework ourselves. on the subject of intra-european transport, i heard commissioner-designate hedegaard defend an ambitious transport package for the climate at the hearings. mr kallas seemed a little less clear, but i would remind the commission that transport is responsible for 25% of co2 emissions. so it is something that needs to be addressed urgently. it's complicated. it's hard to say. you need a mix of measures, but i ask you to work on them and thereby contribute a major stone to a more sustainable policy.
mr president, everyone agrees that the copenhagen summit ended in a double failure. the summit has indeed given birth to a mouse in the form of an agreement which is not binding and has not been signed by all the countries, but it is also a matter of digesting our own defeat, since through the copenhagen negotiations the indispensable role of the two most polluting countries on the planet, china and the united states, has been brought to light. this g2 led the negotiation without the europeans and the developing countries really having a say. agriculture was hardly mentioned in this context. this sector is one of the most fundamental parts of the fight against climate change. european agriculture is preparing to move towards more sustainable production models, with more responsible water management, less energy-intensive models, less dependent on chemicals, aware that biodiversity and the preservation of ecosystems are both key to reducing environmental pollution. so please, when are we going to realize that agriculture... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. president. - after the failure of copenhagen, we can sit here and whine and complain on the sidelines, but that is a waste of energy. let's keep wiping our own front door. europe is the only continent with concrete and ambitious laws to reduce co2 emissions. we must carry them out in the coming months and years. we must not forget that this also has a direct impact on other major powers, china at the forefront. all consumer products that the chinese want to sell in europe in the near future will have to meet the strictest european environmental standards. this forces the chinese producers to change their minds as well. the 'hopenhagen' may have largely failed. but we have to start again, because next year, first in bonn, and then in mexico, there is a new opportunity. in the meantime, copenhagen has no doubt kept everyone awake. we've all become more environmentally conscious. that is not enough, but what makes me optimistic is the realisation that investing in the climate is also good for your own pocketbook, for the economy and therefore also for employment.
mr president, the democratic opening announced by the turkish government has turned into a democratic denial. the ban on the dtp has for the umpteenth time undermined and thus denied the kurdish freedom of expression, association and political participation. the lack of democracy, the large role of the army and police, the very high 10% electoral threshold, but also the failure to reform the constitution and the law on political parties, the persecution and imprisonment of kurdish politicians and militants, all point to the fact that ankara is clearly not able to deal with the rights of minorities in a mature way. because every time turkey opens a door to democracy, it closes another door. i wonder, therefore, to what extent there can still be a democratic opening. i would like to ask the commissioner how he views this and whether he is prepared to agree a concrete timetable with the turkish government to implement a number of crucial reforms in line with european standards.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank and congratulate the commissioner on the commission's position. i am totally in favour of this position, which seems to me much more reasonable than what motivated - i do not know on whose suggestion - this debate today. tunisia is the first country in the euro-mediterranean region to sign an association agreement. it is an active partner in the european union's neighbourhood policy. it is worth recalling, as mr kasoulides has done, that it is the only mediterranean country to have had free trade relations with the european union since 1 january 2008. this cooperation is working very well. it is a country that has an excellent absorption capacity. tunisia has made substantial progress, which has resulted in a very good level of development with socioeconomic results recognised by international institutions. on the economic side, tunisia achieved an average growth rate of 4.6% during the period 2002-2008. moreover, she has been able to reduce her debt burden. on the social side, it is not right to ignore the progress made, especially in favour of women. the indicators speak for themselves, 59% of students in higher education are girls. compulsory education is generally compulsory for girls aged 6 to 16. women make up almost a quarter of the active population in tunisia. i admit that this assessment cannot of course be allowed to obscure the urgent need to encourage the tunisian authorities to make further progress on governance and human rights; we know that there is still work to be done. i am concerned about this issue, as are other speakers, in the name of our democratic values. but we also have to remember that we are not alone in carrying these values. the latter also live in the heart of tunisian society, which is a dynamic and pro-european society. for these reasons we must support tunisia's request for advanced status in this partnership with the european union. and i think that it is in this dialogue that we will find the appropriate framework to encourage our partners to make further progress on the governance path. we must, of course, conduct the debate with our partners without complacency, but also without falling into that kind of moralising obsession which europe too often has in secret and which is often counterproductive. i am not, of course, insensitive to particular cases which some of you may be wondering about. we have the right, of course, to question our partners about situations which we consider unacceptable, but i would like to say, in conclusion, that tunisia has succeeded in forging a political system based on the principle of separation of religion and state. the public authorities in tunisia have the capacity to provide a set of basic services to the population, which other countries in the region have not yet been able to implement, and i think it is good to recall this as well. so i am extremely optimistic about the future of relations between tunisia and the european union, as long as it happens in mutual respect, between partners who respect each other and who agree on the essentials.
author. - mr president, what happened in egypt could have happened elsewhere. a car drives past the exit of a coptic place of worship, fires into the crowd. seven people were killed (six copts and a policeman). the egyptian authorities reacted quickly. the attorney general decides and i quote that the three accused in the naga hamadi events will be brought before the state security emergency court for premeditated murder. in malaysia, it is the name of allah that christian and muslim communities argue about, resulting in the looting and pillaging of churches. these various facts, which might be described as trivial, are echoed elsewhere in the world, including in europe. the rise of intolerance and religious fanaticism is endangering a fundamental freedom - the freedom of belief of everyone, whether religious or agnostic. all over the world, crimes against minorities, whether christian, jewish, muslim, are being perpetrated. in other parts of the world, secular men and women are being killed or imprisoned because they do not observe religious rites, dogmas, or practices from which they have broken free. as a secularist, i strongly support this resolution, which is a call for tolerance and not a stigmatization of egypt or malaysia. but beyond the cases that have been mentioned, i would like to recall the duty of a state which is concerned about the freedom of expression of its citizens. in my view, a secular state, in its structure, is the best guarantee of the necessary space for the diversity of everyone's convictions. it is in this form that it best protects citizens and fosters dialogue between communities.
author. - mr president, emergency resolutions are always a difficult exercise because, far from reflecting a humanitarian emergency, they often reflect political impotence. the name and shame we practice every month is a last resort. it clearly means that all other instruments of dialogue and pressure have proved ineffective and that, because of the lack of action, we are denouncing. in the case of china, i'm not sure that multiplying emergency resolutions as we do march 2009, november 2009, january 2010, plus drafting another resolution in march 2010 is productive. not that i underestimate the difficulty this country has in managing its transition to democracy, but because i believe that going back to the drawing board over and over again is not a wrong target, it's a wrong strategy. there are other more compelling political instruments. i was the first to call for resolutions on the uighurs and hoped that this would avoid, unfortunately in vain, capital executions. i support, on behalf of my group, liu xiaobao, the recently convicted dissident from tiananmen whose only crime is to be a democrat, but i refuse to nail china to the stake every two months, simply because it will not make it bend. quite the contrary! because this key trading player, this country that has a permanent seat on the un security council, that is growing and developing a democracy, that we need to fight climate change, this country needs to be a partner, that we tell its four truths, but that we respect for the efforts it makes. that is the respect that is missing from the resolution. it is for these political reasons that my group has withdrawn its signature. but in order to avoid any ambiguity on the question of human rights, which i hold as dear as you do, my group will vote in favour of all the amendments relating to them. the final outcome of the vote will depend on the amendments we have tabled.
author. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, last november i had the opportunity to receive mrs edita burgos, the mother of jonas burgos, at the european parliament. this filipino youth was kidnapped by armed men in a busy shopping mall in manila on april 28, 2007. since then, his family, his relatives, have had no news of him. jonas burgos is one of the hundreds of people missing or killed in the philippines. murders go unpunished and the perpetrators are rarely brought to justice. as the may 2010 elections approach, we fear an increase in crimes and kidnappings against all those who do not agree with the current government. we therefore condemn the massacre in maguindanao on 23 november and call for the murder and torture of the convoy of ismail mangudadatu to be brought to light.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i simply note that a very anti-european group is using the european parliament to raise this matter. it is a good development, but i am against it, mr president. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i do not deny that mumia abu-jamal's situation is critical and that the case certainly deserves to be heard. but the situation in madagascar is absolutely chaotic and there is a whole country suffering from a transitional regime, which is leading the country to anarchy and which, moreover, has not been established in a legitimate way. it's very hard to tell you that one is better than the other. i think we can keep madagascar. you can, mr president, once again appeal to the united states to suspend the death penalty. it won't be the first time, unfortunately, and i'm afraid it won't be the last either. in any case, i refuse, on behalf of my group, to cancel the resolution we have prepared on madagascar, where there is also a real danger for an entire people.
mr president, on 27 january at 2 a.m. a gas explosion blew up the historic heart of liège. i was there with my colleagues from the town council and we miraculously survived. but 14 people lost their lives in the explosion. dozens of people have been killed and 500 displaced. i would like to pay tribute here not only to the victims and their families but also to the exceptional courage of the firefighters and all the rescuers. i would like to remind you that the status of firefighters is not yet uniform throughout the european union and that in my country, as in others, it is not yet considered a risky profession. i am in favour of a european status for firefighters, since they have to help each other from one country to another in many circumstances.
mr president, my colleague, mrs de keyser, has had the opportunity to recall the tragedy in liège on 27 january. naturally i will not repeat what she said about the victims and the security forces, who deserve a status. what concerns me is the fact that in this event, the building owner was not insured. i would simply draw the commission's attention to the fact that before talking about compulsory fire insurance for all citizens, it would be useful to talk about compulsory civil liability insurance for damage that can be done to others, sometimes by malice, but especially by lack of attention. and it seems to me that the commission could either put forward a proposal, for example in the context of consumer protection, which in this case is first and foremost the citizens, or an initiative, which parliament could also initiate. i would like to call on all those who would support me in this endeavour to call on every citizen to take out liability insurance for damage they may cause to others.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks it has become fashionable to sound alarm about the budget deficits of certain member states. we can certainly criticise some public expenditure - and we will not refrain from doing so - we can think of the billions of euros in subsidies for fossil fuels, but let us not forget, as our socialist colleague said, that the worsening of public deficits is first and foremost due to the financial and economic crisis. i think that governments have no lessons to learn from those who, by their preference for risky operations financed, for example, by debt, have been at the origin of the crisis. however, we agree that public deficits are unsustainable at their current level because they undermine europe's chances of being at the forefront of a much-needed global green new deal. we must therefore tackle this not only on the expenditure side but also on the revenue side, and it is in this spirit that we read the reports tabled today, in particular those by mrs alvarez and mr domenici. by making automatic exchange of information between tax authorities the norm, they are giving the member states the means to tackle tax evasion in a serious way, which, i would remind you, is estimated at between 200 and 250 billion euros per year, or two points of gdp. before we even talk about restructuring european taxation, let us ensure that the tax due is collected. the project also supports the establishment of a common corporate tax base which will provide greater clarity for both taxpayers and member states. in this respect it is a step forward, but it should pave the way not to more competition but to more cooperation. it is time to put an end to tax dumping, a race to the bottom which is undermining member states' tax revenues to the detriment of whom? taxpayers and smes, which do not have the means of large transnational companies to play the member states against each other. the consolidated tax base is therefore, in our view, the prerequisite for the gradual harmonization of corporate tax rates, starting with the setting of minimum thresholds, as we are doing with vat. finally, to put member states' taxation on a sustainable basis will require far more profound changes: to continue reducing burdens on labour income and to compensate for this by introducing a progressive taxation on energy on non-renewable resources and a taxation on financial transactions and capital gains. but, as my grandmother used to say, this is another story. in the meantime, the greens congratulate mrs alvarez and mr domenici on their excellent work, which does not merely repeat the european parliament's past positions but makes them more ambitious and operational. i would also like to end by saying goodbye to mr kovács. i wasn't here when you arrived. my colleagues have told me that you have made a much better impression on them than you did on us when you were appointed. so you've pleasantly surprised us. good for you.
in writing. mr president, the task of tax authorities in a globalised and digitalised world is not an easy one. the detection of tax and social fraud is also complex in the internal market. the lack of up-to-date european legislation on cross-border administrative cooperation between tax authorities is even problematic. the creation of a fiscal liaison office in each member state to speed up and simplify administrative cooperation between member states is therefore worthy of our support. today, requests for the exchange of tax information take so much time that tax authorities often prefer not to wait for the information. the commission's proposal for an automatic exchange of information has my full support for two reasons. firstly, the member states will be able to collect their taxes more efficiently, which is a just and not an unnecessary luxury in times of crisis. secondly, because players in the single market will be treated equally. the principle of reciprocity on the exchange of tax information is also in line with the agreements in the oecd and the g20. this is a message that cannot be misunderstood and one which the court of auditors in my country rightly called for urgently. i shall therefore wholeheartedly support mr álvarez's report.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate concerns a matter of great interest to the european public: the public financing of the restructuring of the opel/vauxhall group by one or more european governments. the commission has followed this matter closely. on 14 july 2009, commissioner kroes and i discussed the opel/vauxhall case with you here in the european parliament. the commission also held several informal meetings with the relevant european ministers. as you know, in the autumn of 2009, general motors decided to keep opel/vauxhall and to restructure the company. at the end of november 2009, general motors submitted a summary of its restructuring plan to the commission's competition services. although the commission's role does not normally involve the prior assessment of the industrial and commercial logic of a restructuring case, and in the absence of information from the member states on potential state aid to the plan, the commission's services undertook such an assessment following a request from the competitiveness council. on the basis of the contents of the general motors restructuring plan and the information provided to the commission, it appears that this restructuring plan is not based on non-economic considerations which would undermine the future viability of the european business of the opel/vauxhall group. the current general motors plan shares a number of features with other restructuring plans prepared previously by general motors itself and other interested investors, and in certain key areas. it is consistent with previous decisions taken by general motors before the start of the crisis, in particular on the allocation of a given model to a given production site. in addition, general motors has given the economic justification for its decisions to reorganise its production facilities across europe by referring to the specific situation of individual plants. these decisions appear to be motivated by considerations such as the range of models allocated to different sites in europe, the respective life cycles of the different models, the respective production volumes of a given model, currently produced in more than one site, the relatively low level of additional investment resulting from increased centralisation of production of a given model, the interest in installing certain upstream processes, etc. i understand that general motors has yet to discuss this plan with the workers' representatives, who are supposed to make commitments to allow for significant cost reductions in europe. the commission will remain vigilant and ensure that, if state aid is involved, the restructuring of opel/vauxhall remains based on economic considerations, that it is not influenced by non-commercial conditions linked to state funding and, in particular, that the geographical distribution of the restructuring efforts is not altered by political requirements. the commission will of course continue to monitor closely all developments within the opel group. in this context, you are probably aware that on 21 january 2010 general motors officially announced its intention to close the site in antwerp in 2010. i understand the concern raised by the announcement of thousands of job losses at this plant. it is sad to see that the opel/vauxhall group has deemed it necessary to close plants. i want to emphasize that this decision is the sole responsibility of general motors. the commission cannot and must not try to impose where these reductions will take place. she cannot prevent them, but she can anticipate their consequences. the commission is prepared to use all the resources at its disposal, in coordination with the belgian authorities, to help these workers. the possibility of belgium applying for assistance under the european globalisation adjustment fund was discussed. this is certainly an option to be explored and, at first sight, it would appear that this request for assistance, if confirmed, would meet the required criteria.
on behalf of the ppe group you say you want to be vigilant, but that seems a little too little to me. we believe that the attitude of general motors in europe is unacceptable. general motors is counting on the release of state aid from various national and regional governments in the european union, and with that public money they want to pay, among other things, the social costs of the closure of the factory in antwerp to which you refer. we cannot allow that, commissioner, nor can the workers accept it, nor can europe accept it. we believe that this dossier is a very important test for you, for the credibility of the european commission. we cannot allow this, because it would set a huge precedent for other cases in the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it undermines the foundations of the european union and it is always the smaller ones who are the victims, as has been demonstrated here once again. in recent months the governments of the european union have been allowed to be played like choirboys by the americans of general motors, and it is clear that this cannot happen again. we can only avoid this by a common european approach. today in the german press your colleague on competition policy, mrs kroes, says that state aid in the car sector is only possible if it is directed towards the development of innovative and environmentally friendly products. we agree with that, but it is much better to coordinate this at european level than to negotiate with general motors in the various countries of europe individually, as is the case today, because that will lead to nothing. moreover, if we were to make a joint european offer to general motors, we would obviously be much stronger and could also demand guarantees in the social field - which you must be very concerned about - and in the field of employment. and why should there not be a new prospect for the workers of the opel plant in antwerp which has been affected, and of course for the workers in the other opel plants in europe who have been affected? it is not too late for that, mr spidla. we believe that the european commission should take the lead in such crossborder restructuring and adopt a proactive policy rather than a wait-and-see or a vigilant attitude. what does that mean, specifically? that means setting up a common strategy, taking a much more active approach and, above all, using all the european instruments at our disposal more forcefully and combining them rather than acting in a dispersed manner as we are doing now. i think we have been too soft on this issue so far. the european commission stood by and watched, and general motors triumphed. it is in the interests of the workers that this should be done, because they are the ones who are suffering today from this lack of european political will. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union's industry ministers are meeting today in spain to launch a european action plan for the automotive sector. i think we need that very badly. you as the european commission must bring together the main players in the sector to prevent us from being overrun by chinese products in the automobile sector too. this thursday the european heads of state and government will meet in brussels for the extra-european summit, at the instigation and invitation of our president herman van rompuy. and there's only one agenda item: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. let us start with the car industry, commissioner, because it is and will remain our most important industrial sector, a sector which is a real driver of economic innovation and which can also be a powerful engine for employment.
i have urged that this matter be taken up again in plenary, not only because it concerns thousands of workers in my backyard in antwerp, flanders - you will see that many members of the european parliament will be speaking on this - but above all because it concerns a restructuring in the whole of the european union, with one establishment closing down and thousands of others losing their jobs too. thousands of men, women and their families face a bleak future. i think that these people today look at the european union with hope and fear. hopefully, rightly, with a question mark maybe? i would like to ask you, commissioner, what your plans are for the future. because i will not hide under chairs or benches that i am particularly disappointed by the statements made today by mrs kroes, who reiterates once again that if the matter comes up, she will apply the state aid rules. but i'm also disappointed by your answer and statement today. of course, if it ever comes to a close, we'll have to make sure people are helped. but we want to see a very different european commission today, a european commission that takes this matter to heart, that plays the political role it should play. and that begins with demanding that opel's european management finally bring the business plan to the table and that there be full disclosure of the economic and other arguments underlying this decision. because you undoubtedly know that in recent years the european management in antwerp, for example, has received a lot of support and resources from both the flemish and belgian governments to ensure that it can remain competitive. today all that is being swept away and there is no strong european commission to oppose it. secondly, and this is my second message and also a very clear question to the commission, i would like the commission to be much clearer and more firm in its approach to restructuring in the future. if two companies merge, the european commission must be notified. why can't we do that in restructuring? why can the commission not apply the same economic and social criteria when it comes to restructuring? only then will there be a clear vision of both industrial policy and a social europe. that is what we, the s&d group, are asking for.
first of all, as has already been said, what is happening in antwerp is a blow to thousands of families and to the workers in the supply companies, but i must say to you, mr commissioner, that i am a little shocked by what you are saying. first of all, you say that it is the responsibility of general motors, as if there were no responsibility on the part of the regional, belgian and european authorities. i have already said it here last time, in fact, given that this is a crossborder case involving several countries, the restructuring of a company, the commission should have taken the case to itself to make sure that the european rules were respected. it has not done so, it has left it in the hands of the member states, of germany, and then of the management of general motors. i would urge that in future, when multinational companies are restructured in europe, the commission should take up such a matter as part of its industrial policy, and not merely act as a coordinator between the various economic ministers. secondly, commissioner, i am shocked that you say you still do not have that file. the press is full of talk about the 2.7 billion in state aid that will be given, but the commission comes here to tell you that it has no business plan or dossier yet! i think it is high time that the commission not only requested the dossier, and then went to get it, but also finally checked whether there was any unlawful action. because it's an illegal act. state aid can only be granted to develop new, innovative products. well, it looks like the 2.7 billion which is being asked of various member states of the european union to keep their businesses open will simply be used as part of a general support to keep european establishments, european activities going. it is time for the commission to take action and not just make statements, as we have heard from mrs kroes and you, but for its services to actually call up the business plan and check whether or not any unlawful aid has been granted.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. i do not know if you understand this, but the credibility of europe, of the european union, is at stake here with thousands of families, with a large part of the european population. we had this debate in september. it was clear at the time that the european commission was actually very hesitant. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the rules are respected. but in the meantime, not much has happened. mr verhofstadt has pointed this out. it seems that there is no access to the business plan, and that while opel - and we all know that, it has been published in the press - will apply for 2.7 billion euros of state aid. so we all, members of parliament, ministers in the regional and federal governments, have the impression that we are catching up. that is not possible, commissioner! it's about the essentials. i have to say that after the decision which was conveyed to us by mr reilly of general motors, i received a lot of e-mails in my inbox with titles such as 'europe is worthless', 'europe is to be blamed, they do nothing for their citizens'. that's the state people feel. so when i hear from one of your fellow commissioners, commissioner de gucht, that the commission does not even have access to the business plan, i find that absurd. at a time when we will have to decide whether this public aid of 2.7 billion euros can be promised on the basis of a restructuring plan, on the basis of a study by an independent study agency, at a time when we all in flanders know that opel does indeed have opportunities, i say to you, mr commissioner, that you are acting like a defeatist. it is your last speech in parliament, but i expect more of you to act in this parliament. i expect more action from the commission! and i also expect - and i agree with what mr belet has said - that there will be very concrete plans to put the car industry back on track and indeed to give it a future geared to what we greens call the green new deal, the combination of climate action and ecologically sound approaches.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. general motors is a company that lost its competitiveness because of excessive pension burdens imposed by american unions. the center of american automobile production has already shifted to the southern united states, where unions are weaker, among them german and japanese car manufacturers. general motors is showing what happens when the cost of labor gets too high. the flemish economist geert noels recently said that wage costs in belgium have risen sharply since 2000. that was, incidentally, during the verhofstadt government which is here. in germany, wage costs fell from that period onwards. noels claims that this was the reason why opel antwerp was closed. so, mr staes, we must maintain competitiveness in industrial policy. let us look to the future. what about the chemical industry in flanders? there are 64,000 direct jobs and 100,000 indirect jobs, and over 160,000 people depend on chemicals for their livelihood. but recently the german chemical company bayer decided to leave antwerp, and that is a bad omen. the car industry is therefore facing the consequences of an anti-car policy promoted by the greens. we cannot say on the one hand that the car must be fought and on the other hand that car factories must be left open. the car is being made unaffordable because people have to get on the bus. for lower income, the car becomes too expensive. so fewer cars are being sold and look at opel antwerp. the chemistry is related to european climate policy. after the failure of the copenhagen conference, will europe embark on a single-track approach to reduce co2 emissions by 20% by 2020? that would destroy flemish chemistry, as the high wage costs destroyed opel antwerp. the end of the flemish chemical industry, madam president, is 54 times opel antwerp. if flanders neglects its chemical industry, it will become, as the flemish entrepreneur thomas leysen said, greece on the north sea, and i hope my flemish friends will take note of that. (the president agreed to answer the question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
i would like to say to mr eppink that between 2000 and 2009 ford did manage to stay open in belgium, and secondly volkswagen did manage to stay open and the audi 1 was produced there, and that this was done by reducing the burden of shiftwork, and therefore the cost of wages. this has kept these companies and has led to new investments. i therefore believe, and i ask him if he does, that opel is indeed a profitable establishment which could remain if we continue with that policy.
i think there would have been a future for opel antwerp if the crisis had not come and the whole concept of general motors had not collapsed. but what mr verhofstadt cannot deny is that the car industry has been in decline in recent years in europe and also in flanders, and mr noels, the economist to whom i referred, said that high wage costs were one of the reasons why the americans closed opel antwerp and not one of the others. opel antwerp was an efficient factory, but that is also what is said about opel in britain, in leuton, and also in the german factories, and so i think that high wage costs always have an eroding effect on industrial policy and that we must prevent that if we want to preserve employment.
the closure of the opel plant in antwerp is a tragedy, not only for the workers and the supply companies, but it is also a tragedy because there is clearly a trend towards the closure of all forms of industrial production in flanders and elsewhere in europe. the commission will examine whether state aid, if any, is granted under strict conditions. it should be possible to grant temporary state aid to an undertaking such as opel antwerp if it is part of a transformation towards more innovative production. it is not the intention, of course, to keep whole branches of industry alive forever and ever, but we must not forget that opel is a profitable company in antwerp with well-trained, highly productive employees and modern equipment. i therefore refuse to believe that we are dealing with some kind of industrial dinosaur which is doomed to disappear as soon as possible. we are being asked in this debate to make another great leap forward. some people say that europe should be given even more powers, on the axiom that more europe automatically leads to a better europe. it would be good if the eu were to adopt a flexible and at the same time consistent approach within the framework of its current powers, for example by ensuring that the rules apply equally to germany and flanders, that the large member states cannot afford to be more generous than the smaller ones. finally, a word to the representatives of the belgian governing parties. you have helped make belgium one of the most expensive countries in europe for industrial production. you have caused the flemish worker to pay considerably more than a colleague in another country, and at the same time to have less to live on, by applying a heavy tax burden, and that too plays a part here, and it is time you reflected on this.
i am very pleased that the opel case has been put back on the agenda today, although i note that very little new information has emerged in the statement of the european commission. the commissioner has given a full account of the informal meetings held on the basis of the summary of a plan, but i have not heard the commissioner say anything about a real business plan, and you said that it seems to you that some of it is not based on non-economic considerations. i would like to hear from the commissioner what elements of that plan or dossier you are referring to. you said that the commission cannot dictate where these jobs should be killed. that is true, but you can check things, you can check criteria against the business plan, you can check whether they are in accordance with the restructuring and competition laws in europe, but we have heard nothing of all this here today. however, your colleague, commissioner kroes, made very clear promises to us in the september plenary. she said: we will never accept that taxpayers' money is used to serve national political interests. if i note here today that apart from mr belet, no one from the epp is speaking, and certainly no one from germany, then i think the matter is clear. i think for germany the spoils are in; the opel employees in antwerp are very sorry.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the european commission on its excellent report. the report on equality between women and men, which we adopt every year, has a special resonance for me. this is my first report to the committee on women's rights and gender equality, of which i am a full member. and it is a report that is absolutely indispensable this year in view of the economic, social and financial crisis that the european union is experiencing in particular. that is why i insisted in my report on the impact of the crisis on women. first of all, men suffered more from redundancies at the beginning of the crisis - this is normal because of the impact in heavy industry in particular - but in recent months, unemployment rates for women and men have increased in the same way, at the same rate. in more than a dozen member states, unemployment remains higher for women, and women are overrepresented in parttime jobs. i therefore ask the commission and the member states to provide accurate statistics on the impact of the crisis on women and men, and for member states to carry out gender impact assessments before implementing a policy of budgetary austerity to avoid disproportionate impact on women. the fight against violence against women is also, i believe, an important point. 20 to 25% of european women suffer physical violence in their adult lives, but 10% of them are also victims of sexual violence. i therefore believe that men must also take action against violence against women. the spanish presidency of the european union has decided not only to put the fight against violence against women at the centre of its priorities by creating a european observatory on violence to have harmonised data, but also to create a european mandate for the protection of victims. i therefore support this approach and also call for the creation of a european year against violence against women so that awareness of this issue is increased in all member states and the fight against it can be made a priority. the job. one finding: women have invested heavily in the labour market. 59.1% of women are now working. the lisbon strategy set a target of 60%. we are almost there, but the gap remains large depending on the member states, as does the average pay gap, which varies, according to the studies, between 17 and 25%. i therefore call on the member states to implement the directives on equal treatment for men and women in employment. i call on those same member states to take legislative measures to promote a balanced presence of women and men in positions of responsibility, particularly in private enterprises. i think we have to fight against gender stereotypes, obviously. i met, in my previous capacity as minister for education, a woman who had to stop her training as a school bus driver because she was being teased by her trainer. i would like to see that in the future no one is surprised that a man can wash dishes or that a woman can also drive a school bus, as i have just mentioned. in short, the commission and the member states should be asked to launch awareness campaigns in schools. sexual and reproductive rights are an important chapter because women must have control over their sexual and reproductive rights. thousands of women have fought for this right at the risk of their lives and today, 24 out of 27 european countries have legalized abortion. the european parliament has a duty to protect this fundamental right of women, and we insist that women should have control over their sexual and reproductive rights, in particular through easy access to contraception and abortion. the paternity leave. it is noted that men have the right to participate fully in the first days after the arrival of their child in the family. it is true that in this connection the commission may be asked to support any initiative to introduce paternity leave at european level. we believe that maternity leave should be combined with paternity leave. i shall conclude, madam president, commissioner. when presented to the committee on women's rights and gender equality, this report received wide praise from representatives of all political groups in the european parliament. the vote in the committee went very well and the report was adopted by a comfortable majority. i therefore invite all my colleagues to support my report again when we vote on wednesday, but i am already looking forward to the debate which will take place and will then be able to answer your questions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i too would like to congratulate the commissioner on his latest speech - i have often met him in other places - and simply thank everyone for this very rich debate, which involved quite a few colleagues. i've listened to them all and all very carefully, and it's true that there were many people there, and i'm glad of that. in any case, there have been proportionately more than in the committee on women's rights, since we are four out of sixty-one, and that is far too few. i agree with those who have said that this is a fight that men must also fight. i can't answer everyone, but mrs lulling said the vote in committee was uncomfortable. well, 15 yeses against 5 noes, three times as many yeses as noes, and 7 abstentions. i know that there has been a lot of discussion on chapter 38, which deals with reproductive health, sexual rights and in particular contraception and abortion, and i know that this is perhaps a more sensitive subject than others, and i did not want my report to be all-inclusive, but i could not hide this one. i am referring to the teenagers in particular, who, when they become pregnant against their will because they have not had the information that would have been needed, find themselves in distress. what bothers me most is the hypocrisy of those who want to ignore these situations and make fun of the problems of these young teenagers and who, when it happens to one of their children, have the means to offer them a "revitalisation" treatment, in switzerland or elsewhere, which goes quite unnoticed. as for the wage gap, mrs bauer has pointed out very well, it is 25%, if we add the effects of part-time work which is forced. it's hard to tell, of course. it is not about - and i'll end here because i have only a few seconds left - a full-blown case, even though we have talked about genital mutilation, the burqa, forced marriages. i can assure you that in a democracy, i do not consider these practices to be cultural, but they are practices that we must combat through democracy. but if i had put that in the report, it would have obscured everything else that i thought was more important.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, on behalf of my group, i am delighted to be here today and to finally have the barroso ii commission before us. i think that is good because we are ending a period that was bad for the european union. the fact that we have not had a commission with real powers for six months is something that should not happen again in the future, especially in this period of economic and financial crisis, when there are big issues like climate change, copenhagen and so on. in any case, believe me, in my experience, there must not be a period in the future without real governance by the commission, especially for such a long period of six months. i hope that this commission will start its work as soon as possible after we have voted. we, mr president of the commission, expect three things from you. firstly, that this new commission should be the driving force behind the european union, which we believe has not been the case over the last five years. we are asking this time for a commission that breaks with the past five years and is the real engine of much deeper integration of the european union. indeed, everything that has happened in the last few weeks, in the last few months, shows that what is problematic about europe's position in this multipolar world is the fact that there is no unity of view, not enough european integration - i am thinking of copenhagen or the lack of coordination in haiti. we therefore ask for a commission which, contrary to what has been seen in recent years, does not always seek immediate compromise with the council and then come to us and try to make us swallow it. what we expect from the commission is that it presents ambitious plans to the council - even though we know in advance that it will not be 100% right - and then comes to have a strong ally with the european parliament to convince the council. (applause) i would like to thank the second thing we expect from the commission - and i will repeat what mr schulz has already said, but i think it is important - is that it should work as a college. a strong president of the commission is good, but a strong college, a strong commission showing its cohesion is indispensable and much more important. we are therefore really expecting such a commission because for the first time - you have acknowledged this, mr president - it is a commission composed of the three major political families present in this chamber. i am extremely pleased that there are eight liberal commissioners in charge of very important portfolios. the commission must now function as a coalition of these three movements and political parties and seek to reach compromises which are supported by the whole commission and the whole house. finally, the third priority of this commission, in our view, is of course to combat the economic crisis and i believe that the most urgent task is to present a credible europe 2020 strategy to parliament and the council as soon as possible. that's the most important thing. and on this point, mr president of the commission, be ambitious. do not listen too much to the member states, but to the spanish presidency because it has good ideas on the matter. come up with ambitious plans. do not think that loose coordination of national economic strategies is sufficient. in the world of the future and in the multipolar world, much more is needed than that. we need a socioeconomic governance of the european union. it is not enough to have a monetary pillar as in the euro area, we also need an economic and social pillar in the euro area and in the european union. that is the strategy we expect from you, because it will be crucial for the future of europe and for the future of our fellow citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, my group will offer its support to the european commission. the alliance of liberals and democrats is a responsible group and we firmly believe that the next five years will be so critical for the european union and european citizens that we will need a commission that will have broad pro-european support in this parliament. but let me also be very clear. our support is conditional, more so than during the last five years. we expect the new european commission to be the engine of the european union. we want a commission with a bolder, more ambitious and more integrated economic and social approach, a commission that is at the forefront of such a strategy – a strategy that can force member states to do what they have to do. i think that, certainly in the eurozone, we have to recognise that there is a great need for a true economic and social pillar next to the existing monetary pillar. the problems in the eurozone today are clear proof of the failure of the weak approach that we have followed over the last 10 years with the so-called open coordination method. the same is true in other areas – on climate change, on foreign policy and on defence policy. the basic assumption behind this new bold approach is the recognition that in fact, in the multipolar world of tomorrow, europe cannot play a significant role without being more effective and without further deepening its own integration in the near future. we expect you to embrace this assumption and to come forward with clear, firm and ambitious proposals and reforms in all these fields. we expect that, to achieve this, the commission will use the right of initiative to its full potential. i am clearly talking about the commission as a whole, working as a college, as a cohesive political body pushing european integration forward. a strong commission may be helpful, but a strong commission in that respect is indispensable. the lisbon treaty offers new tools and has enhanced our capacity for action. high representative ashton, we ask you to use these new tools. we expect more from a high representative than we have seen until now. your role demands it and the european union requires it. take the opportunities. the lesson we learned from haiti is an example. put the report to establish a european civil protection force on the council table immediately. having said that, my group will support this commission, with its strong liberal presence, and we are prepared to offer our commitment to advance the european cause with her. (applause)
for a very large number of reasons which led us not to support this european commission, it is obvious that a very limited speaking time can only be used to make a small point. for example, a small part of this is the fact that this european commission is simply continuing on the road of accession of non-european islamic turkey to our european union, although this is absolutely opposed by a large majority of europeans who are never allowed to speak out on this. for example, the fact that this european commission is still advocating the immigration of millions and eventually tens of millions of new non-european immigrants to a continent which already has tens of millions of unemployed. for example, the fact that it has already been shown at the hearings that none of the new european commissioners is prepared to do anything about the democratic deficit. these are all reasons enough not to vote for this new european commission.
i voted against the new commission because there is no indication that the new commission will be working to close the gap between the average european on the one hand and the european institutions, and in particular the european commission, on the other. i heard the then candidate for commissioner for enlargement during his hearing in the committee on foreign affairs and it shows, for example, a very strong willingness to sweep away any objection to the accession of non-european turkey, as has been the case for the past five years. the new commission also wants more economic immigration, more patronage and more meddling, which is a particularly bad thing under the lisbon treaty and offers little reassuring prospect.
in writing. - i have agreed with this commission because it has shown that it can succeed in its work, particularly after its (re) appointment. the result of the negotiations between the commission and parliament is also satisfactory. in particular, i think it is important that the commission should not be given a free hand for the next five years, but should undergo a 'lasting review'. the challenge remains to ensure coherence between the different policy areas, such as environment, social and economic, and to ensure that external communication is such that eu policy is more transparent and understandable to all citizens.
in writing. - i voted 'no' to the question whether we consider barroso ii to be the engine, initiator and inspirer of the european project. barroso is not the forceful leader we need. he let five very crucial years pass. the eu could have pursued a less neoliberal and more social policy in those years. years in which europe could have given smes a boost. years in which he could have helped to support the quality of european independent media and to help democratize european decision-making, thus restoring the confidence of millions of citizens in the european cooperation project. none of that happened. the blind focus on liberalisation, high stock market prices and macroeconomic growth has obscured the social and sustainable face of the eu. the world is afflicted by three crises: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. a lack of collective response fuels public cynicism and political nihilism. barroso's weak and vague policy plan gives little hope of change. he accepted that member states sometimes put forward candidates who were simply incapable of doing so, and he split the portfolios of some commissioners, leaving it unclear who is really responsible for key policy areas. barroso lacks vision and political courage, which is not good for europe. that's why this is a no.
i think that, unlike the representatives of the ppe group, i am not really in favour of the commission's intervention. i think that we must first of all recognize that what we are experiencing with greece is also the result of the failure of the lisbon strategy. the countries have grown apart over the past decade. the difference between germany and greece has not diminished over the past ten years, but has increased. and that is because we have followed a much too weak lisbon strategy. secondly, i also think that the european institutions, the european commission and the european central bank, have made a tactical, strategic mistake by not acting immediately. they acted much too late. for six weeks, all kinds of statements have been made by european leaders saying that the greek leaders must take action, that the measures are not strong enough, or rather that they have no confidence in the capacity of the greek leaders, etc. we heard everything. i say to you that we are partly responsible for the reaction of the financial markets to greece. how can the financial markets have confidence in a club if the members of that club themselves no longer have confidence in greece and in the measures proposed by greece? so i think there's been a miscalculation. if the european central bank and the european commission had been much more quick to impose a package on greece from the outset, we would not have had the eurozone infection we are experiencing today. and it is not to be said that they were not aware of the greek problems. the european commission has been talking about the greek dossier for three or four months now and has said that at some point there will be a problem with greece. that is the only reason, ladies and gentlemen, for saying that there is a rate on greece with a 12.7% deficit, while there is no rate on england with a 12.9% deficit. so it is no longer a question of the figures, but of the financial markets throwing themselves at greece because we ourselves do not have sufficient cohesion, confidence and solidarity, which could have been avoided by very strong intervention by the european commission and the european central bank. a strategy or a piece of advice, commissioner: let us deal with it ourselves! i am absolutely against the fact that we are bringing in the imf, the international monetary fund, to solve the problems in the euro zone. we are going to solve these problems in the euro zone ourselves, we do not need the imf for that. finally, the last point, which is about more than greece. the current situation is a test case for the cohesion and internal cohesion of the euro.
the way in which man is dealing with natural resources, the way in which man is destroying habitats and overexploiting wild plants and animals, the way in which man is illegally trading in wild fauna and flora, all this means a continuous deterioration of biodiversity on spaceship earth. and that biodiversity is crucial. that is why the cites convention is so important. that is why the meeting in doha next month is so important. we have a strong resolution. but there are attempts - we must admit this - to weaken that resolution behind the scenes. there's a fierce battle going on over it. i therefore ask all colleagues, especially those from the southern countries, the epp, the s&d, to make very explicit efforts to ensure that the recommendation of the committee on the environment to keep bluefin tuna in cites annex i is upheld. it's crucial to the survival of this species.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that housing is a difficult issue to deal with at european level because it is not really a community matter. but it is widely recognised that the development of quality housing is necessary to ensure social cohesion and contribute to the success of the commission's recovery plan. i am therefore pleased that the structural funds are increasingly taking into account the financing of investments in the housing sector, particularly in the field of energy efficiency, but we must go further. so, beyond this proposal, special attention should be paid to the homeless - there are an estimated three million of them in europe. this is why this is one of the priorities of the belgian presidency in the second half of 2010. i hope that this will make it possible to put this issue on the european agenda and to work on it in an even more concrete way. this includes accurate methods of counting homeless people to achieve a comprehensive understanding of the phenomenon, and increased support for social housing.
public opinion in europe is understandably opposed to the accession of non-european and islamic turkey. the promise of the previous commission was that negotiations with turkey would be suspended if turkey were found to be failing in its democratic obligations and that the negotiations would have to keep pace with the reform process in turkey. none of those promises were kept. on the contrary, new chapters have been opened again and again, while turkey is going backwards rather than forwards. political parties are banned, kurdish mayors are arrested, christians are victims of intimidation, violence and administrative opposition. critical writers and academics should go into hiding. and i'm not even talking about phenomena like forced marriages and so-called honor killings. what deadline does the commission give turkey to recognise all the member states of the european union? when will turkey have to respect the ankara protocol? when will the illegal military occupation of cyprus be brought to an end?
in writing. - i voted with great conviction in favour of mr david casa's report. as first vice-chair of the committee on budgetary control and rapporteur for a report on vat fraud adopted in september 2008, i have always advocated an efficient fight against vat fraud as it is a major problem for member states' revenues and the proper functioning of the internal market. a common and particularly serious form of this fraud is the so-called vat carousel fraud. the total amount of uncollected revenue is estimated to be between 20 and 100 billion euros per year. that is a huge sum, which could certainly be put to good use in times of economic crisis. criminals active in this sector are highly inventive. it has recently become clear that they are also active in the framework of the emissions trading scheme. transfers of allowances between taxable persons within the ets, which are made exclusively by electronic means, are considered to be supplies of services and are taxable at the place where the recipient is established. the traders buy carbon credits from vat-free sources in other member states and sell them to companies in their member state at a price including vat. ploffers don't pay the vat to the treasury. fighting this kind of crime is crucial.
in writing. to learn from the failure of the copenhagen conference is the priority of the european parliament with this resolution that i voted for. the problems are well known: the un method no longer works, the united states and china have behaved as adversaries in the fight against climate change, and the european union has not been able to speak with one voice. while the problems are well known, the remedies for reaching an agreement in cancún in november 2010 have yet to be invented. to maintain its leadership, europe will need to be climate innovative and offer something other than the single goal of global emission reductions through the highly speculative greenhouse gas emissions trading system, a tool that the us government has just rejected. it is time to change the method and propose a 'technological' bridge between industrialized countries and regions and micro-states that are mainly exposed to climate change. the hopes of tomorrow, those of an agreement at the next cancún summit, the most important ones of a common world vision, will come from the addition of ambitious measures in the field of clean technologies, energy efficiency in buildings and transport, and the promotion of green jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls for a stronger stance in the negotiations on a global climate policy. moreover, the absence of an international agreement is no reason to delay further eu policy action to deliver on earlier eu commitments to reduce its emissions by 20% by 2020. the ep reiterated its intention to reduce the rate to 30%. the ep is right to state explicitly that the initiatives taken to promote and encourage the green economy, the security of energy supply and the reduction of energy dependence will make it increasingly easier to meet a 30% reduction commitment. the important thing is that lessons are learned from the failure of copenhagen. hence the important self-criticism that the eu has been unable to build confidence in the negotiations through previous specific commitments to international public financing of climate efforts in developing countries. hence the important statement that the eu's collective contribution to developing countries' reduction efforts and adaptation needs for 2020 should not be less than eur 30 billion per year. i hope mexico leads to success!
in writing. the aim of this resolution on the cites convention on endangered species is fundamental: to achieve a european consensus on the prohibition of international trade in bluefin tuna. the fishermen are fiercely opposed to the ban, and scientists and environmental experts are sounding the alarm. at the current rate and despite the drastic efforts made in recent years, bluefin tuna could be gone in as little as three years. italy has already done so by adopting a moratorium as early as 2010. france also, but in a much more ambiguous way, since it talks about an 18-month period to "assess the state of the resource". spain and malta are guilty of silence. however, the emergency is here and only radical measures can allow stocks to be replenished. it is also the only way to safeguard the economic activity of fishermen in the medium and long term. this resolution does not mean that we should ban all fishing for bluefin tuna or that we should have no bluefin tuna on our plates. small-scale and sport fishing will remain permitted. the ban on international trade should be sufficient to protect the species, as 80% of bluefin tuna caught in the mediterranean is exported directly to japan.
in writing. - i voted in favour despite the fact that i thought the original text of the committee on the environment was stronger, especially as regards the reference to bluefin tuna. it is important, however, that the council and the commission of the european parliament receive the signal that we support the inclusion of bluefin tuna in cites annex i. i would have preferred not to have included the three conditions formulated by the plenary, although i did support the amendment which provided for aid for the affected fishing communities. the commission and the member states will also have our support in moving the polar bear from cites annex ii to cites annex i. an important demand to the commission and member states is to reject the proposals of tanzania and zambia to move the african elephant from cites annex i to cites annex ii for trade purposes. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body of the person who is infected.
in writing. - has this parliament really not learned from its past mistakes? the reports on bulgaria and romania also repeatedly stated that corruption was widespread and that the police and judicial forces were totally inadequate. nevertheless, the vote was in favour of these countries' accession, and the consequences are well known. eu membership and the massive financial flows it brought added to the already existing corruption. croatia can join, as far as i am concerned, but only if it is really ready and if corruption no longer holds society in its grip. after the accession of croatia, which is not for tomorrow, there must be a stop to enlargement. the accession of all the countries of the western balkans, which is the priority of this report, is unacceptable to me.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution because, after amendments in the committee on foreign affairs and in the plenary, a text was adopted on the basis of turkey's eu membership. it would have been better to emphasise that the negotiations are 'open ended', which opens the way to more realistic alternatives such as a privileged partnership. it is clear that turkey does not meet the conditions for accession to the eu and that it will not do so in 10, 15 or 20 years' time.
on behalf of the s&d group, in the short time allotted to me, i would like to mention, on behalf of the s&d group, three important preconditions which are essential for us in assessing the case for the possible introduction of the body scanner, which until recently was put forward as the miracle cure. firstly, we must adopt a coordinated, harmonized european approach, and thus european rules of the game, otherwise the problem of security will be shifted and chaos will be created, and you referred to this, mr president-in-office, but i would point out that a number of council members have now adopted a solo-slim approach, and i ask you to reject this explicitly. secondly, we need a comprehensive approach to security and the fight against terrorism, and that means avoiding hasty conclusions, stopping the politics of announcements, and also not separating the possible introduction of the body scanner from a wider context of other existing or other possible measures, and of course also linking it to other elements such as public health and budgetary implications. thirdly, we must also stop giving the impression that the body scanner will ensure 100% safety. you know that the device is only capable of detecting explosives on the body, but not, for example, inside the body. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to say that i therefore support the commission's approach of carrying out research before putting a proposal on the table.
we must be careful that a debate on terrorism is not reduced to a debate on body scanners or data protection. it is striking that the council and the commission have not mentioned in their statement radical islamism, which is nevertheless the breeding ground and breeding ground for international terrorism. and if we, for reasons of political correctness, dare no longer face that truth, then any approach is doomed to fail. the commission and parliament are putting the emphasis on respect for citizens' rights, and that is necessary and right. but the danger is that we lose ourselves in formalism and that is what we have seen in the debate on the terrorist finance tracking programme. the vote on the motion for a resolution will be taken at the next voting time.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their oral question, which confirms the interest of the european parliament in the eu-south korea free trade agreement. as this will be the first major trade agreement to which the european parliament will be asked to give its formal consent under the lisbon treaty, i very much welcome this opportunity to reply to the many aspects of the free trade agreement raised in the oral question. i might not be able to give detailed replies to all aspects of the question, but i am happy to address them in a possible follow-up question. the eu-south korea agreement is not only the first fta negotiated by the eu with a country in asia, it is also the most ambitious and comprehensive free trade agreement ever negotiated by the european union. after more than two years of negotiations, the free trade agreement was initialled on 15 october last year. throughout the negotiating process, the commission remained in close contact with parliament. in this respect the commission welcomes the resolution on korea voted by parliament in december 2007. many of the issues raised in this resolution have been addressed in the free trade agreement. the whole process was also accompanied by a constant dialogue with civil society and a comprehensive trade sustainable impact assessment. the fta is currently being translated. by the end of march the commission envisages presenting to the council the decisions to authorise the signature of the fta as well as to conclude the fta. the objective is to sign the agreement in april. the commission is currently completing its analysis as to whether the agreement also falls within the competence of member states. in this case, the fta would require the ratification of all member states before formally entering into force. as this process may take some time, it may be necessary for the commission to propose that the agreement be provisionally applied pending its entry into force. the provisional application is decided by the council on a proposal by the commission. the commission is sensitive to the desire of parliament to be able to give its views on the fta before it is provisionally applied. the commission will continue to seek out the best means, together with the council and parliament, to ensure that this takes place in a manner that does not cause unnecessary delays. it is of great importance that we apply the agreement as soon as feasible. as regards the regulation on safeguards, the commission intends to present its proposal for such a regulation to the council and the european parliament in the coming weeks, and hopes that it will be possible to adopt this legislation rapidly so as to ensure that its application takes place as close as possible to the application of the fta. the economic benefits of the fta are mostly in the eu’s favour. it will relieve eu exporters of industrial and agricultural goods from korean tariffs, saving them 1.6 billion in duties annually, half of these directly from the day of the entry into force of the agreement. obviously potential gains from these duty savings will be even higher, as trade between the eu and korea is expected to expand over time. according to one study, the fta will create substantial new trade in goods and services of 19.1 billion for the eu compared to 12.8 billion for korea. existing studies have not identified any sectors that would be negatively affected by the fta, but in case of serious injury or threat thereof, the commission would not hesitate to activate the safeguard procedures built into the agreement. let me also remind you that, in the event of such a necessity, we have the possibility of employing the support measures under the european globalisation adjustment fund. with regard to intellectual property rights, the fta contains ambitious commitments going beyond wto rules. besides, the commission has been careful to ensure that no element in the fta contradicts the eu acquis communautaire. on the implications of the protocol on cultural cooperation, the fta would set a framework for engaging in policy dialogue on cooperating and facilitating exchanges regarding cultural activities. it is, above all, a demonstration of the eu’s commitment to actively promoting the 2005 unesco convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expression. on rules of origin, the negotiations with south korea resulted in a number of changes which are consistent with the ongoing process of reform of such rules. these changes go in the direction of simplification, thus implementing a specific request by the european parliament. at the same time, strict rules have been maintained for all sensitive sectors. the commission has paid particular attention to creating a new market-access opportunity in korea for european fruit and vegetables. in order to encourage korea to open up its market, european union entry prices have been eliminated except in the case of the three most sensitive products: tomatoes, oranges and korean citrus. obviously, the fta also opens the eu market to korean products. to protect our industry against import increases causing or threatening injury, the fta contains an effective safeguard mechanism. this safeguard clause can be invoked from the entry into force of the fta. the commission will monitor the eu market and korean imports to assess the need to invoke the safeguard clause, and remains committed to making use of it if conditions are met. the same applies to the special clause on duty drawback, which can be invoked based on publicly available trade statistics on imports into and exports from korea. i am aware of certain concerns expressed, notably by the eu car industry, about the duty drawback provisions in the fta, but i have to emphasise that duty drawback is currently allowed and used by koreans as well as by eu exporters. thus, maintaining it in the fta does not accrue any new benefit. the current economic impact of duty drawback is very small, about one eighth of the value of the korean duty concessions. in the case of cars, available studies show that, on average, the foreign content of korean cars is between 10% and 15%. if foreign sourcing were to increase significantly, the special clause on duty drawback would provide for an effective remedy. it cannot be ruled out that implementation of the fta may give rise to different views and interpretation between the parties. to address such situations, the fta contains an efficient and rapid dispute settlement mechanism. the commission will monitor closely the implementation of commitments by korea and will not hesitate to invoke dispute settlement procedures if warranted. the fta would also break new ground in promoting the protection of the environment and respect for labour rights, containing comprehensive commitments on a range of social and environmental standards. the scope of these commitments is broader than that of any comparable agreement. to ensure that these commitments are respected, the fta establishes a strong framework for monitoring their implementation, involving civil society, business, trade unions and ngos. finally, i would like to inform you that korea and the eu have been discussing possible adjustments to the tariff dismantlement schedule. these adjustments would imply, inter alia, that products classified under three years and five years would be subject to four- and six-year tariff cuts respectively, so that duties would be eliminated one year later than originally scheduled. while this implies a modest sacrifice in terms of our offensive interests, we thought that such an adjustment would be appropriate, taking into account the sensitivities of certain sectors. korea has indicated its readiness to agree to those changes on the basis that the sensitivities of both sides are equally respected.
on behalf of the ppe group. first of all, commissioner, i would like to wish you every success in your new role. we are in economically troubled times, but we know that you are not afraid of that. as regards this draft free trade agreement with south korea: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. daniel caspary has already referred to it. look at the figures, commissioner, for every car we export from europe to south korea, 15 cars from south korea enter the european union. we are at a ratio of 1 to 15 and that is mainly due to those non-tariff barriers to trade in south korea. it is also no coincidence that a manufacturer like general motors is backing down on its decision to stop producing this new small suv in europe, in the antwerp plant in particular, and to move the whole business to south korea. this future free trade agreement with south korea is the direct cause of this. and i think, commissioner, that we cannot accept that and just sweep it under the rug, arguing that many other sectors in europe are benefiting from this. i think we still have plenty of time to correct this situation for our car industry, and you are right to refer to the safeguard clause, the safeguard measures. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the figures and trends are far too disturbing. the fact is, and you know it better than we do, that the american government is also negotiating with the south koreans to make adjustments to a similar agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's a lot of jobs that are under a lot of pressure right now. i think we cannot afford to have any more jobs at stake and that is why we are asking you to put extra guarantees in this agreement.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you yourself have referred to a number of impact studies, but i have not read any impact studies indicating the impact on employment by sector. many have already spoken about the automobile sector. we know what that effect is, both i in my own backyard and a little bit of your backyard too, mr commissioner. the opel car plant in antwerp is closing and the trade unions there - and these are people who have been working on this for years - are really convinced that this trade agreement is a very important part of opel's famous business plan which we are not allowed to see and which is the reason why the suv is not going to antwerp. i therefore have two questions to ask you. do you know what the impact of this agreement is on employment, the effect on employment by sector? if not, are you prepared - and i would urge you to do so - to have an impact study done for the time being, to ensure that we as parliament have that information when we finally have to give our consent? and secondly, do you intend to introduce such social impact studies in the future - as you are just beginning your mandate - ?
i would like to welcome you, commissioner, first of all, since i did not open the debate and, moreover, to give you the floor to answer these many questions.
thank you very much, commissioner, for that comprehensive and encouraging reply. the baby's closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. - i voted with conviction and i am glad that a majority does not bow to heavy political pressure and also makes its voice heard when it comes to justice and security policy. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. the eu presidency and the european commission must now scrap the provisional agreement with the us and return to the negotiating table, with the demands of the resolution adopted by the ep in september 2009. but before that, there must be a thorough and open debate on the relationship between security policy and the fight against terrorism, on the one hand, and minimum guarantees for fundamental civil rights and respect for the privacy of hundreds of millions of citizens, on the other. i'm glad the blackmail and political pressure didn't work. it is absurd to say that respect for civil rights and privacy is an obstacle to the fight against terrorism. we greens are prepared to cooperate in an effective and strict security policy, but with respect for constitutional rights and with attention to the causes of crime and terrorism.
author. - mr president, i am sorry, but the resolution on venezuela which the epp is presenting to us is a hoax, designed to exploit the emergency for political purposes and to try to discredit mr chávez. i'm summarizing because it's not worth wasting time on. four national channels have not fulfilled the recording obligations imposed on them by law. they are temporarily suspended and are currently subject to these obligations, and i hope that they will be regularised quickly. in a joint resolution with the greens and the gue, my group reiterates its unwavering commitment to freedom of expression and its plurality. but i am surprised at the very variable geometry of the epp's conception of freedom of expression. it is you, ladies and gentlemen, who voted against the resolution on freedom of the press in italy by defending berlusconi. if you want to make a fool of yourself today, please do. you'll be voting in numbers later, so enjoy it!
author. - mr president, there is consensus on this resolution. in madagascar, an illegal transitional regime led by andry rajoelina is plunging the country into chaos. he is preparing to take over the next elections, which he has announced for march 2010, after a process that has nothing democratic and that goes beyond the agreements of maputo and addis ababa. the illegal appointments of controversial political figures, the widespread violations of human rights, the harassment and arbitrary arrest of parliamentarians, religious and civilians have moved the international community to take action. madagascar's membership of the southern african development community and the african union is frozen. the united states denies him the benefits of the african growth and opportunity act. the donors to the international monetary fund have cut their budgets by 50% and the un will be reviewing the situation in the country on 15 february, while the european union has, i believe, suspended its development aid while maintaining its humanitarian aid. so the situation is tragic, catastrophic, for a population that lives on less than a dollar a day. we are terribly concerned about this situation, and this emergency resolution, which is unanimous, is a testimony to that. we support the mediation efforts of joaquim chissano, former president of the republic of mozambique, and urge the four political groups to return to the negotiating table. there will be no other solution. we also call on the african union and the southern african development community to resume contact in order to bring the transition process to a successful conclusion, and we ask the commission to report to us on the ongoing consultation process with madagascar, following article 96 of the cotonou agreement.
author. - mr president, the situation in burma continues to deteriorate. is it still necessary to recall the abuses of the burmese government against its own people, the endless imprisonment of the sakharov prize winner aung san suu kyi and her ousting by a false conviction from the next elections? the burmese government has committed to a seven-phase democratic transition, which should eventually lead to elections. but if these elections are held in accordance with a constitution drafted by the military, as appears to be the case, they will only have the effect of legitimizing five decades of military rule and giving the military 25 percent of the seats in parliament. we call on the international community, including china, india and russia, to continue to combine their efforts and pressure on the burmese government to put an end to the serious human rights violations in the country and to prevent the promised democratic transition from becoming a political farce.
mr president, commissioner, once again burma is the focus of the european parliament's resolutions on human rights violations. we are speaking again to denounce the situation in that country, which does not seem to be showing any signs of improvement in the way it treats its citizens, and which should apply democracy more than necessary. while other countries have shown progress over the years, burma continues to violate the fundamental rights of its citizens. aung san suu kyi, the iconic figure who is the leader of the opposition, remains under house arrest, entire populations are displaced, children are recruited to become child soldiers, opponents of the regime are arrested. there are many examples and of course not all can be mentioned here. we want the next elections to be free, and we want opposition parties and anyone who wants to stand for election to have this fundamental right. we also want observers to be able to verify that these elections are free and free from any illegality so that the military junta does not legitimize itself through the ballot box.
i thank mr lehne for what he has just said, but i would also like to ask that under these circumstances amendments can be tabled and that a debate be held, because at this stage only a vote was planned and we could not table amendments to the report drawn up by mr lehne.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all let me come directly to what i would call the most urgent problem today. we can talk about 2020, but we have a more urgent problem today: the eurozone and greece. we have to find solutions to that. i think we, the european parliament, have to take the initiative in this field. it is important to determine what exactly happened in greece. today we received contradictory information. greece says that it has given all the information to the european union and european institutions. at the same time, the european commission and eurostat are saying that they did not receive all the necessary information. at the same time the investment banks – goldman sachs, morgan stanley, deutsche bank – are minimising what they have done in the greece case. i therefore think it is the task of this parliament to organise hearings with the relevant committee as quickly as possible, so that we can hear all the parties concerned on this matter and find out exactly what is happening in the case of greece. we cannot talk about remedies, about solutions, about reforms in the european union if first of all we do not know what really happened in the case of greece in 2008 and 2009 and before that, and i think it is absolutely necessary that the different parties are heard by this parliament. the second point is that we also have to tackle the problem of the greek debt. i think there is only one good solution to that. yesterday i read the article by george soros in the financial times on the matter, and a few days ago i read the article by joschka fischer in the german press. he is saying what many people are saying: the best solution to the greek debt is a european solution – euro obligations, or a european monetary fund, without any costs to the european taxpayer, but with a solution for the future. i think it is also the task of this parliament to ask the commission and the council to reflect on that possibility and to go beyond the national interests of the current member states of the european union to examine this possibility. thirdly, i think the most important part of this debate is, naturally, what to do about 2020. i think greece is a very good example of what went wrong with the lisbon strategy. the lisbon strategy was too weak; the gap between the german economy and the greek economy widened over the last 10 years: it became bigger, not smaller, after the lisbon strategy. what we need – and it is the first decision to be taken by the commission and the european council – is to recognise that the open coordination method was not a good method; it was too weak a method. we need a bolder instrument inside the european union. this bolder instrument is economic governance inside the european union. mr barroso, i hope that in a few days’ time, at the beginning of march – i think it is 3 march – you come forward with a paper on this. i hope it will include a bolder strategy than the things that were concluded or not concluded at the informal summit. it is still an intergovernmental, open-coordination method. they make it a little bit better, a little bit faster, but at the end it continues to be an open coordination method based on intergovernmentalism. what we ask from you is to take the lead on that, on this economic policy and on this economic governance, and to come forward, together with olli rehn, with a bold proposal to have economic governance inside the european union. it is nonsense to have monetary union on the one hand and not to have an economic and social and political union on the other. the problems with greece are proof of that. (applause)i think this is a time when we can expect something bold from the commission, and i hope that on 3 march the commission will propose a document that is far more ambitious than the – in my view – disappointing conclusions of the informal summit. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
on behalf of the alde group. – maybe it will be necessary in the near future to bale out britain, because i have seen that the fiscal deficit of britain is even higher than the fiscal deficit of greece. (applause)the fiscal deficit is, if i am not mistaken, 12.9% of gdp for the moment. so i think what is most important for the moment is that we have a credible strategy towards the eurozone, and i am very sure – maybe not tomorrow but the day after tomorrow – there will come a time when britain is a member of the eurozone. be sure.
let me first state that we are having this debate here in this chamber, in brussels, in belgium. in this economic context, we can describe belgium - without exaggeration - as greece on the north sea. because this country, belgium, has the highest percentage of public debt in europe after greece and italy. we are a fundamentally sick country in europe and that is not least due - if i may say so - to one of the previous speakers, former prime minister verhofstadt, who could still be lecturing the greeks on fraud and artificial embellishment of budgets! so let us not blow our trumpet too high. let us not pretend that we can solve the crisis by creating more public debt, the famous verhofstadt proposal for a european public loan that will have to be paid by someone someday. on the contrary, it was european decisions that led us into the crisis, european decisions to throw the maastricht criteria and the stability pact into the garbage can at the head of the customer, because europe had to move forward. it is the same eurocratic obstinacy that is now driving turkey's accession strategy down our throats, with the economic and geographical realities having to give way and european citizens having to pay massively for the potential accession of a country that is not even european. the solution is not more europe. the solution is national responsibility and the obligation of individual countries to turn the tide.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in favour of reducing the number of objectives of the eu 2020 strategy to a limited number, provided that they are ambitious. ambitious, for one, in terms of reducing our ecological footprint. so it's not just about climate, and from that perspective, to get back to the -20% figure seems to us to be quite below what is really needed. even 30% is not ambitious. the second ambitious objective is the reduction of inequalities: one could think of reducing the level of poverty in europe by 50% by 2020, but that would not be, and certainly would not be, a maximum to be achieved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission's proposal is also ambitious in terms of job creation. these objectives - as already mentioned - must be measurable and binding; whether it's a bonus-malus system or something else, it doesn't matter, but we need results. but we will not achieve these results without two absolutely essential ingredients. firstly, there is strong market regulation and, from that point of view, mr van rompuy, we are very concerned about what is happening in the field of financial market supervision and the council's positions. the second point i would like to make is what mr daul said: indeed, mr daul, it will require further surrenders of sovereignty on the part of the states, particularly in the tax field. and now i wonder where the epp is. without strong fiscal convergence, we will not be able to both rebalance our public finances and put our taxation on a sustainable footing. we think of energy, we think, of course, of taxation on financial transactions.
on behalf of the s&d group. december 2008, operation cast lead in gaza, about 1 500 killed, mostly women, children and civilians. families destroyed, schools bombed. a population that's panicked, trapped, unable to escape. i was in gaza during the military operation, along with some of my colleagues here, and we were astonished that such a tragedy could take place in full view of the international community, without causing a huge wave of protest. gaza hasn't changed since then. the destruction continues and the siege continues. but there was the goldstone report. mr. brok, what is the difference between the goldstone report and the resolution that followed it? the goldstone report, this brave report which simply asks for justice, is that too much to ask? the pressures today to sink this report, the discredit that has been thrown at judge goldstone, are unimaginable. he is dragged through the mud, he is called an anti-semite, when israel is not the only one to be pointed at in the goldstone report. fatah and hamas are not spared. but i say today, and i say this clearly, and i apologize to my colleagues, that the israeli government is the only one to use a kind of terror, censorship, to block the report. mr lieberman, you are not in this chamber, but you were in parliament yesterday, and i say to you: no intimidation in this chamber! we want independent investigations, in line with international standards, not military tribunals judging their own soldiers. i also say, mr. lieberman, you are not welcome here. not because you represent israel, but because your racist and xenophobic positions are not in line with european values. no democratic state can afford to violate international law without being held accountable. and this parliament will not be intimidated. he will simply continue to demand that justice be done, that the tragedy in gaza be brought to light, not with vehemence, but with determination. and i would ask the council and the commission today to stick to that. light and justice, nothing else.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the goldstone report tries to fulfil the mandate it was given. that mandate is, or was, the following: ‘to investigate all violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law that might have been committed at any time in the context of the military operations that were conducted in gaza during the period from 27 december 2008 and 18 january 2009, whether before, during or after.’ and that is exactly what the goldstone report has done – although it was not just mr goldstone, it was also his two female colleagues. they conducted investigations on what happened in gaza and came up with conclusions that are disturbing to say the least. they are extremely disturbing because they find in most of the instances they looked into that breaches of international law and international humanitarian law and breaches of the geneva conventions have indeed been committed by the forces of a state that claims to be the sole democratic state in the region. that is indeed very disquieting. we should not let it pass. so when we are called upon to take a position on this report, the question is not whether we are for or against israel, for or against the palestinians, for or against hamas; the question is whether we condone breaches of international law, of international humanitarian law and of the geneva conventions, no matter by whom they were committed. that is what we need to answer.
mr president, the purpose of this debate is not to put ourselves in the position of prosecutor and judge what we are not in a position to judge. our objective, and it is twofold in this case, is first of all to help shed light on the responsibilities of each side in the gaza war and, beyond that, and more prospectively, i would say, we must ask ourselves how what we are going to do and say today can facilitate a return to dialogue. i do not think that the goldstone report is a building block in this building, and it is important to remember that, because it is rare that all the european countries have agreed to it, none of which has supported it in the face of the prosecutors and the great defenders of freedom and human rights, such as china, pakistan, saudi arabia, russia and cuba, to name just a few. the report is controversial, it is biased and it will not allow, whether we like it or not, to move forward. it is up to israel to decide whether it will take up its responsibilities as a democratic state and shed light on the war in gaza. it is a matter of military, diplomatic and media interest, as the hebrew state has done in the past.
i think the goldstone report has shown very clearly that both israel and hamas have been guilty of human rights violations during the gaza war. the un has already called on both sides twice to carry out an independent inquiry, but 14 months later, that call is still being ignored. i therefore ask myself why the european union is not taking action on international law? why does it allow impunity to prevail in this region? the eu has no credibility and no respect for international law if it simply ignores these war crimes. this report is not about israel's security. this report is about gross violations of human rights. there is therefore no argument to be made that the recommendations of this report should not be implemented. i therefore call on the high representative, but also on all member states, to do everything possible to ensure a strict follow-up on the ground. this is the only way to give the resumption of peace negotiations any chance of success.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the train accident in buizingen on monday 15 february 2010 was a shocking tragedy. i understand that in the aftermath of this serious accident several technical and political questions concerning rail safety can be asked. first of all, my thoughts are with the victims of this tragedy and their relatives. it is always difficult to find words of consolation for these sad occasions and silence is sometimes more telling. the causes of the accident are not yet fully known and the technical investigation has been launched in accordance with the provisions of the eu safety directive. it is the responsibility of the belgian investigation body to carry this out. it should be accomplished independently of any judicial inquiry. the objective of the technical investigation is not to apportion blame and liability, but rather to identify causes with a view to improving railway safety and the prevention of accidents. the belgian investigation body has asked the european railway agency to support it in its investigation. two investigators from the agency joined the belgian team in charge of the investigation just a few hours after the accident occurred. i would like to stress that, since the causes of the accident have not yet been clarified, it is inappropriate to draw conclusions. of course, i am prepared to clarify some issues, which were raised in the aftermath of this tragedy and i will share with you my understanding of the situation. as is too often the case when rail accidents happen, remarks alleging a link between european rules or regulations and the accident are made. i would first like to be very clear on the opening-up of the market. alongside the opening-up of the rail freight sector to competition and the establishment of requirements to separate the activities of infrastructure managers and railway undertakings, a stringent regulatory framework has been introduced governing rail safety and interoperability. we want to ensure that the high level of rail safety is maintained, while recognising the procedures and methods specific to each member state in this area. the european railway agency produces reports at regular intervals on the safety of the european network and monitors the development of the situation in the member states. indicators demonstrate that the opening up of the rail sector to competition has in no way had a negative impact on railway safety. let me say very clearly that any proposition linking rail safety levels to the opening-up of the rail market is, in my view, just an excuse to steer the debate away from the true causes of the accident. the question of the coexistence of national and european train control systems can be put in these terms. more than 20 different national systems are used in europe today to ensure the safe movement of trains. these systems developed at national level consist of a trackside component and an onboard component. the trackside component sends information to a computer in the train, and the computer applies the brakes when a dangerous situation is detected. for the systems to work, trains and lines must therefore be equipped with a compatible system. levels of safety and performance of the various national automatic train protection systems are different, as are the rules concerning equipment of lines and locomotives in these national systems. the incompatibility of the different national systems poses a major problem for international trains because either locomotives have to be changed at each border or they have to be equipped with as many onboard systems as there are systems on the tracks that they will run on. there are even cases where different national systems coexist in one single country. the thalys, for example, has to be equipped with seven different national systems to run in four countries. for this reason a single system for use at european level has been designed and developed and is currently being installed on major international lines and trains in europe. the system is known as ertms – european rail traffic management system. as regards the timing we can say that most of the national systems were developed in the early 1980s but their deployment is a long and costly process. in most countries, only part of the national networks and locomotives are equipped today and this partial equipment took approximately 20 years. the ertms specifications have been available since 2000. a number of pilot projects were carried out between 2000 and 2005. since 2005 several ertms equipped lines have been put into service. at present 10 member states have lines with ertms and there are ongoing projects in almost all member states. in belgium, for example, the line between aachen and liège is equipped, and ict trains running on this line are equipped as well. ertms was created primarily with a view to promoting interoperability. that means the possibility for locomotives to cross borders, but it is also recognised as a system offering an advantage in terms of increased safety. the system is fully operational today but, due to the long time needed to install it on board trains and the long lines, existing national systems will continue to co-exist with ertms along the lines. third countries like taiwan, to give just one example, have also chosen ertms, and not just for operability reasons. taiwan invested in ertms simply because the system is the best system available on the market today. several questions were asked about comparing the situation between member states. it is quite difficult and not very useful to establish a ranking of the member states and make meaningful comparisons. it all depends on the choice of indicators, the reference period and the quality of the data reported. one or two serious accidents can also have a significant impact on whatever type of ranking we may have. overall data show that the belgian performance is average. it is however true that belgium lags behind the european average in terms of tracks equipped with an automatic train protection system, be it the national or the european one.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to thank you for your explanations. in the light of the accident in buizingen, respect is obviously due first and foremost to the victims, but also to the investigation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it is quite right, however, that the commission has clearly rejected the belgian railway's assertion that the european safety system has been waiting too long. because we know that security has been and will continue to be a national priority. we at european level - whether the commission or parliament - have always regretted that railway companies do not give greater priority to safety and interoperability between the different systems at european level. after accidents, it is very often the case in politics that new proposals are put forward. i must say that everything was there, both the legislation and the technology. what was perhaps lacking was the will to make this technology a priority. the technology needed to ensure the transition between the european system and the highly qualified system in belgium, the so-called tbl 1+ system, had been available since the mid-1990s. so there was no lack of time or technical specifications. i'm all about the future, and i'd like to make a request. firstly, we should not under any circumstances cut back on training in the railway sector. this was not and is not an obligation on the part of the eu. the railway has highly qualified staff and should continue to do so. secondly, we need firm and binding restructuring plans on the part of the railway companies and the countries. it's not enough to leave it to goodwill. we also need a precise timetable; we will soon have the opportunity here in parliament to inform about precise objectives. the third proposal i would make is that passengers should also have the right to be informed whether the route they use and also the rolling stock meet the highest safety standards. that would be the minimum information that you would have to give to passengers in the future. we should also consider how we can make this compulsory.
i would like to begin by expressing my deepest sympathy, on behalf of the socialist group, to the victims and to the relatives and friends of the victims of the train disaster in buizingen. we must of course await the results of the study to draw any real detailed conclusions, but that does not take away from the fact that railway safety must remain a permanent focus at all levels, including at european level, and that we must therefore regularly evaluate, improve, supplement and adjust our safety policy. i too, like my colleague and like you, commissioner, would like to make it very clear that we regret that some persons with important responsibilities in belgium have wanted to shift the responsibility for the accident onto europe, or at least have given that impression. in particular, the delay in the development of ertms was cited as a reason why only a handful of locomotives in belgium are equipped with that automatic stop system today in 2010. on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear and honest: the development of this great idea, one signalling system to replace the 20 systems, has taken more time than hoped for and than expected. this is all due, of course, to the technical complexity and to the fact that, of course, you have to agree on a standard with 27 countries - at the time there were a few fewer - so a lot of countries. of course, there are budgetary implications, but as you rightly said, this has not prevented any member state from developing its own system or from starting to use a kind of embryonic version of ertms at an early stage. i think we should now look ahead and ask ourselves how we can contribute to a safer railway. i believe that we can contribute to this on several fronts at european level. firstly, thanks to the further deployment of ertms. that deployment plan is in. we budgeted eur 240 million for ten-t in 2009 to help member states. but secondly, and i think this is an important task for the commission and the european railway agency, we must also check whether the existing european safety regulations are actually being enforced on the ground. i will give you an example of directive 2004/49/ec on safety on the community's railways. it requires, inter alia, the establishment of a safety authority in each member state, independent of the railway undertakings and the infrastructure manager, with the task, inter alia, of monitoring, promoting and maintaining railway safety and developing a regulatory framework. i feel, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not working very well in belgium and i think you should organise some kind of audit to see whether the member states really have the capacity to guarantee that safety in their national railway system in a proactive way. that is a task i would like to give you.
i would also like to express my sympathy on behalf of my group to the victims and i would also like to await the results of the inquiry. i hope that this will be done as quickly as possible, but also as thoroughly as possible. in my country a number of questions have been raised about the way in which europe has approached the railways. i have to tell you frankly that i am shocked by people who have said that we did not pay attention to security. i was the rapporteur for this parliament on the security directive to which mr el khadraoui has just referred and i am proud of the work we did then. for we have said: we must set very high standards for security in all the member states and we must create a european framework and set requirements for this. we have had great difficulty getting it through the member states. i note, and mr el khadraoui rightly pointed out, that in some countries - unfortunately also in my own country - the organization of the national application of this directive is actually inadequate. i hope, commissioner, that you will give it some thought. perhaps we should also review this directive in this parliament and tighten up the framework, as mr grosch has said. so it is not that we do not pay attention to safety. - no, it's the opposite. secondly, there is a paragraph in the passenger rights regulation which we hoped we would never need, advances for people who have lost their lives or been injured in railway accidents. i am glad that the nemf has announced that it will use that system and that it will pay advances. times have changed once. there are people who have said that the opening of the market has created insecurity. i would certainly disagree. it's not true! if you look at the latest data from the european railway agency for 2008, you see that's not true. the best countries in 2008 are the uk and the netherlands, two countries that have opened up their markets. i also think we should pay attention to the people, those who will have to do it on the track, the engineers, the people who work in the stations, the people in the administration. we must look at this again and ensure that training, work organisation and the whole company culture are focused on safety first. in conclusion, mr president, we must not lose sight of the fact that the railway is still one of the safest means of transport.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, for me too, last week's tragic accident is the worst rail disaster in belgium since 2001, when i was personally minister for mobility and transport. my thoughts are once again with our colleague claudia candeago, but also with all the other victims of this tragedy, their families and all the bereaved railway workers. i will not draw any conclusions from what others have said. the investigation is ongoing and we will not prejudge its results. however, it is clear that at belgian level it is regrettable that the railways took so long to get an automatic train protection system. and some of them said it before me. when i heard, in the aftermath of the disaster, when it was not possible to mention budgetary reasons, that the accident was caused by the slow development of european interoperability standards, i found this unacceptable and immediately considered it a bad case for europe. ertms (european railways traffic management system) on the other hand offers companies a chance to invest in safety in a coordinated and interoperable way. the etcs (european train control system) is evolving, and the innumerable national standards that are hindering development and competitiveness must be removed. of course it is evolving, and it will continue to evolve. this is the condition for maintaining a very high level of technology. and i have no doubt that in the next five or ten years, many more developments will take place. such accidents, however exceptional they may be, needless to say, are a reminder that we can always do better in the field of safety, and i would like to make a few suggestions in this connection. firstly, as you know, commissioner, we are currently discussing the transeuropean transport networks, their conditions and criteria. i think that the deployment of ertms throughout europe could be a priority for european networks. i also think that deadlines should be set in this context, particularly for the means with which all countries and networks must be equipped. finally, i think that safety should be given priority over the opening up of markets by requiring new operators operating trains on different national networks to adapt for a while to the existing automatic protection system on these networks and to equip their locomotives with the corresponding receivers and cabin equipment. finally, i believe that the european railway agency could also make a valuable contribution to a better integration of the national safety authorities, for example by helping to approve equipment. (the president cut the speaker off)
for the ecr group the investigation into the causes of the train accident in buizingen has not yet been completed and i cannot therefore say anything about it. i do come to the following conclusion. when a train crashes in england , people say , "that's because of the privatization of the railways". the belgian railways receive the highest subsidy in the european union. belgium gives 32 cents to the railways per passenger/kilometre. second is france with 24 euro cents. in the netherlands it is 15 euro cents and in england it is 4 euro cents. despite all these subsidies, the belgian railways still have a debt of 10 billion euros. where's that money going? when i look at the infrastructure of the belgian railways, the neglect is striking. everything is old and worn. is the security system also neglected? maybe too much money goes to staff salaries because of the power of the unions. in belgium, the railways are a socialist domain and are poorly managed. these are questions that must also be asked, because lack of money is no excuse for the belgian railways!
first and foremost, a simple observation. the tax burden in belgium is one of the highest in the world, but in that unmanageable country the taxpayers - and especially the flemish taxpayers - get very little for their money. the railway system is a perfect illustration of this. it is hopelessly outdated and is characterized by multiple and long delays and by overcrowded wagons during peak hours. the management of the belgian railways is highly politicized and inefficient and it is typical of belgian politics that when something goes wrong, nobody is ever responsible for anything. in 2001 there was a train accident in pécrot similar to the one in buizingen last week. nine years ago, everyone thought that there would be serious work on a better security system. well, it didn't. in anticipation of the european train control system, a system of its own was developed, but much too late and far too inadequate. the lesson to be drawn from this is that more investment in security is needed and that the various existing systems need to be better coordinated. and if that does not prove to be possible, the switch to the european etcs should be encouraged as much as possible, because it is not healthy for a thalys train between paris and amsterdam to have as many as seven different security systems.
mr president, the train disaster in buizingen, near brussels, claimed 18 lives and injured more than 160. of course, our first thoughts are with the families. the causes of the accident are still unknown an investigation is under way and there is a need to look at the assessment of railway safety in europe, member state by member state. this evaluation should, of course, cover the safety systems, the state of their implementation, their interoperability and their effectiveness. but this assessment of the safety level of the european rail networks must be understood in a broad sense and, in particular, include an assessment of the working conditions of railway workers, since the best guarantee of safety is the railway worker. i therefore ask the commission to carry out an assessment of the safety of the european rail networks through a comprehensive approach which starts from the launch of the rail liberalization process. it is clear that the time has come to evaluate the concrete results of these policies of liberalization and dismantling of public services without taboos. what has been the added value? who benefited from it? and who was affected? the aim is to compare the implementation of european safety and signalling standards with working conditions since the railway liberalization in each member state became a reality. the commission must therefore consider the role of public services more generally. the ps - the party i belong to - has long been calling for positive action by the european union to protect and develop public services. the idea is that a framework directive on services of general interest would give public services the guarantee of a stable legislative framework, adequate funding, respect for the principles of universality and equal access.
i would like to ask a question to mr tarabella, whom i personally very much appreciate. but he cannot close his eyes to the fact that the belgian railways are the most heavily subsidised in europe. so he cannot blame liberalisation because passenger transport has not been liberalised. he can't come up with any other excuses. i should also point out that he speaks for the ps. it is also the ps that has a lot of control over those railways through the unions and if the politicized system of the railways would manage them better, then these things would not happen.
mr president, i will simply reply to mr eppink that we are not at a polling station here. a disaster has happened and claimed lives - others have happened in the past - and it is natural to wonder about its causes. the investigation is ongoing, so we have to let it happen. one factor, however, must never be ignored, and that is the human factor. in any liberalization - i know you are in favour of liberalization, i am much less in favour of it, and not at all in public services - a human factor is neglected. the pressure on the staff is terrible, and they work "endless" hours, at any rate for longer periods without any rest. when you're a train driver, you're committed to the safety of your passengers. i think it is therefore important to ask ourselves what working conditions are and how they are changing. that seems to me to be an important element.
the tragic accident in buizingen obliges all of us, including europe, to launch an investigation. this tragedy has claimed the lives of 18 people and we owe it to these victims to learn from this tragedy in the short term and to ensure that safety is guaranteed on belgian and european railways. we know, as you have already said, that it is not europe's fault that the automatic braking system has not yet been fully introduced in belgium. but that does not mean that europe should do nothing now. we are asking the european commission to carry out an evaluation which will answer a number of very specific questions. for example, you know that we are obliging railway companies - including private companies - to equip their trains with the new etcs from 2013 onwards. but we know today that the railways in europe will not be equipped with this system by then. two digits. today, commissioner, only 2,800 kilometres of railway track in the whole of europe are equipped with this new european safety system. the railway network in belgium alone is already larger than that by 2,400 miles [3,400 km]! so it is clear that we are not ready for it here in europe. the trains will therefore be unable or unable to communicate adequately with these new signalling systems. that requires a thorough evaluation. we must also dare to examine, commissioner, whether the pressure on staff has not increased because of the approaching competition between railway companies. should we not think about introducing driving and rest periods for drivers at european level, as we have done for lorry drivers? in short, this accident requires the european union to make a conscientious examination, to make an evaluation and, if necessary, to be prepared and have the political will to make adjustments.
mr president, i will not go back to an unfortunate incident which took place yesterday in this house, which is unworthy of this parliament, where mr herman van rompuy was insulted. the president of the european council knows how to defend himself. however, i do not accept that anyone in this parliament can say that my country is not a country. it is a founding country of the european union, which will very soon assume the presidency. i do not understand how in this house we can fall into this kind of verbal practice and i apologise, mr president. (applause) i would like to thank
i think we as a parliament should be a little ashamed of ourselves because of the actual budgetary change we have just approved in this report. it is true that almost all european countries are suffering from a huge financial and economic crisis and people are losing their jobs. we have no choice but to allocate to ourselves substantially more resources, more staff and more expenditure at the taxpayers' expense. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this has led to other large increases in subsidies, including to european political parties and european political foundations. it is striking that we find again and again good arguments for this institution to get even more out of the tax office. that is unacceptable in these times of crisis.
in writing. our resolution is addressed to the un human rights council, an institution which we would like to see elevated to the rank of policeman for respect for the most fundamental rights, values and freedoms in the world. i speak on condition of anonymity, because its legitimacy is more than questioned for its lack of impartiality. and now suddenly there is the question of iran's candidacy. it was a provocation. this state, this government, this president, who disregards the rights of man and woman. at least 346 citizens, including minors, executed in 2008 by hanging or stoning. trial by fire. the torture. the complete absence of freedom of speech, association, and the press. persecution of minorities, especially baha'is. the bloody and systematic repression of all forms of protest since the presidential elections in june 2009... the world needs a government that is based on universal values. if the un is to be the venue for such dialogue, it must ensure that its organs are objective. the iranian candidacy is more than a test of credibility, it is a test of viability.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it highlights the progress still to be made by the 189 states signatory to the beijing platform for action to achieve real equality between women and men. i particularly support the paragraph which stresses that 'sexual and reproductive health and rights are an integral part of the women's rights agenda'. in this respect, i would remind you that the majority of meps recently stated the need for women to have easy access to contraception and abortion when i adopted my report on equality between women and men in 2009.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it provides for an increase in the envelope for the recruitment and remuneration of assistants by eur 1500 per month from 1 may 2010. fortunately, a green amendment provides for an evaluation of the compensation system as it currently exists and has been in force since the 2009 elections. but the increase in the secretarial allowance is unconditional and does not necessarily take account of the results of this evaluation. the report also provides for the strengthening of parliamentary committees and political groups. the cost of this operation is eur 13.3 million on an annual basis, of which eur 8.832 million is for the assistant's allowance. this is a bad decision. it damages the reputation of the institution. the decision is ill-considered. no further consequences are contemplated. where are the new assistants housed? in a new building? another extra charge? i am also afraid that much of this money will be used to recruit non-accredited assistants under national pay conditions. in some cases, this system was responsible for fraud. now we may be opening the door wide to abuse. i therefore call for a prior and clear evaluation of the existing system. only then can we make an informed decision.
in writing. blue europe is navigating in troubled waters: fish stocks are dwindling, 400 000 european fishermen and their families are worried about their future and are questioning the effectiveness of the common fisheries policy (cfp), which has so far been a safety net. the structural problems identified, such as overfishing, underinvestment, overcapacity of the fishing fleet and waste (how many tonnes of fish are discarded daily because they are unfit for consumption?), require a reform of the cfp. it is obvious that it must take account of the specificities of the different fishing basins and avoid a single management model at all costs. we do not fish in the same way and with the same boats in the north sea and the bay of biscay. that is why the reform proposed by the commission, based on regionalisation and supported by the european parliament this afternoon, is essential. responsible policy must also take account of the reality of the figures: the european union accounts for about 4.5% of world fisheries production and is not meant to be a 'giant' in the sector. all the more reason to opt for small-scale, innovative and sustainable fishing.
in writing. - i abstained on the vote on the report on the common fisheries policy because it contains too many points which not only contradict a number of other points in the report but also run counter to my political view of the european fisheries policy. on the one hand, the report states that european fishing fleets should no longer overfish the waters of developing countries, but on the other hand it also states that fisheries policy always takes precedence over environmental and development policy. this position is manifestly contrary to the treaty of lisbon. article 208 of the treaty states that our foreign policy must not undermine the development objectives of poor countries. the policy proposed by parliament is certainly positive for europe, but outside european waters europe is only concerned with its own fishing fleets and not with the fish stocks and the fishermen on the spot. that is why the greens abstained. the report also acknowledges that there is a major problem of overfishing and that sustainability should be the guiding principle of policy, but it fails to recognise that the capacity of fishing fleets and the subsidy and quota systems are at the heart of this problem. hence this abstinence.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our new commissioner has already said it. the legislative framework is no longer adapted to today's reality, given the very changed travel market, which has caused many problems and frustrations not only for consumers but also for travel agents, agencies and tour operators. it is clear that the number of people still effectively protected by the current directive has fallen dramatically despite the fact that more people are travelling. the european parliament has indeed been calling for a revision of the directive for years. you have said it, the bottlenecks and the possible solutions are known. another consultation just concluded. i think it's high time we cut some knots. i welcome the statement made by the commissioner, but i would like to make a few points explicitly, which are very important to us. firstly, the scope of the directive must certainly be clarified and even extended. more and more consumers - we have heard this before - are putting together dynamic travel packages or booking a separate travel service. we have seen, for example, recently, with the recent problems with the eurostar, that thousands of tourists got into trouble because they were not compensated for hotels they had booked or for theatre tickets they had bought. this is unacceptable. i think that passenger rights should also be clearly stated in the directive. of course, we must take due account of the very different travel markets, the different holiday behaviour of consumers in the different member states and national jurisprudence. but harmonization is necessary because some concepts are very different, such as tour operator, mediator, force majeure. i read in the commission's 2007 consultation that there was nevertheless very detailed feedback from industry and stakeholders. so i wonder what the problem is. why not decide now? they also asked for some kind of travel security label. i would like to hear the commissioner's opinion on this. a second point concerns the role and responsibility of the travel agent. it is necessary to define it much more clearly, because consumers are bombarded with a lot of information on the internet, which is not always correct and sometimes even quite harmful, to the point of paying rent for holiday homes that do not even exist! the role of the travel agent should therefore be standardized much more precisely. we've already discussed the bankruptcies. in a resolution parliament has made a very clear call for better protection of the passengers concerned. as a resident of a border region between flanders and the netherlands, i would also like to draw particular attention to crossborder sales, because protection is often limited to the travel contract concluded in a particular member state. finally, information to consumers on prices. in most other sectors, prices, including those of the travel services sold, should be fixed and all inclusive. do you share this view? i'd like to hear your views on that. the rights of consumers should also be clarified in cases of force majeure and in the event of changes in the supply of travel services, and information obligations should be stricter and more targeted. perhaps we should also consider introducing sanctions in the new directive. i hope that the commission will make some progress very soon and that we can discuss a new proposal here in parliament.
mr president, this is one of those cases where the european union can really add real value by offering a form of protection to the millions of people in the european union who go on holiday and travel in europe. cross-border problems require a cross-border strategy and approach. we all agree that the 1990 directive is hopelessly out of date. twenty years ago, most people would choose a trip from the travel brochure and then go to a local travel agent to book their trip. today, more and more people are planning their own vacations and booking travel via the internet. in addition, relatively new phenomena have emerged, such as the emergence of low-cost carriers in the airline industry and the growth of the cruise industry. what do i think should be included in this new directive? first, a definition of the scope of the directive. in short, what types of package holidays are covered? secondly, there must be a precise definition of legal liability and - last but not least - there must be a strong protection of consumers in the event of the bankruptcy of an undertaking. only if these matters are settled in a way that is watertight will the reform be successful and the millions of consumers in the european union be better protected.
mr president, commissioner, i will not hide from you, and everyone knows that i fully support the commission, that your remarks seem to me to be singularly timid, and in any case do not express a great desire for political ambition on a subject which, however, seems to me to be quite important. i would remind you that the 2002 monterrey consensus and the follow-up to the 2008 doha conference gave a favourable opinion on innovative and alternative financing in the field of development. i do not think that this financial transaction tax could regulate the world financial system either, that is not the point. i believe that the european union should take the initiative in launching, probably in coordination with the g20, a tax on international financial transactions which could be set, as has been said, in a range of 0.01% - that is really important! - to 0.1% on the value of the transaction! the expected revenue obviously varies, depending on these two coefficients, between $20 billion and $200 billion, so you have a choice. it can be global and general, but one point on which i do not agree with you at all is that i do not believe that its implementation should be agreed upon by all the states of the world, but mainly by the key economic players. so we cannot expect the whole world to accept this tax. we know that this would be tantamount to killing the very idea of the tax. if it is raised at the level of the states and on a voluntary basis at first, it could obviously have a knock-on effect, if it is coordinated by the key economic actors, in particular the g20, it could feed - since you ask yourself the question - a global fund, or, why not, a european fund - the european development fund would need it in terms of means of official development assistance - or it could even be implemented by the states in their development policy. there is also one element on which i am very reserved. there are very clear signs of this, for example, when i hear the director of the international monetary fund in some way distorting the philosophy of this tobin tax or the financial transaction tax to make it a kind of hedge against or to cover the risks of the financial world, of what i call financial jugglers. that is not the point at all! i do not want this tax to be used to cover financial risks. for that they must pay in another way. this is a revelation i cannot accept. i would like to point out that all the progress made in recent years in a number of developing countries, even among the best performing, is likely to be reversed and prevent the mdgs from being achieved. i am therefore a strong supporter of a financial transaction tax.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. - mr president, i am glad that the position of the committee on economic and monetary affairs can be put to the house. it wasn't like that a few weeks ago. i agree with the basic idea of the commission that there should be less administrative burden on small businesses, that we should also make a distinction - as mr lehne says - between large and small businesses. but the proposal on the table does not achieve that objective, hence the position of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. if there is no accessible accounts, it becomes more difficult for small businesses to find out about colleagues and, as things stand, we have different situations in different member states. i do not think that is a good thing, especially for small businesses that do not specialise in all these things. i would therefore ask my colleagues to follow our position. what we are asking for is a detailed evaluation of the effects, not only of the 6.3 billion positive effects, but also of the negative ones. the commission has not done so. administrative simplification can best be achieved within the framework of the revision of the company guidelines, because then it is the same for everyone. there too, one can simplify and distinguish. and thirdly, we will have a uniform directive for all member states, a strengthening of the internal market and real administrative simplification.
mr president, let me first of all thank the previous speaker for what britain did for us so many years ago. i have a question for him: if we ask the commission for a revision of the two directives that are planned for this year and to have an overall framework, is this really going to be a hindrance to what we want to achieve – administrative simplification?
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must of course reduce the administrative burden, we must also contribute to this from within europe and we must certainly do so for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the ones who suffer the most. but that doesn't mean we have to throw out the kid with the bathwater. if we accept the commission's proposal, we will have different annual reports depending on the location of the company and perhaps also depending on whether the turnover is more or less achieved through intra-community trade. in any case, such a rule will curb the growth of small companies and be an obstacle to cross-border operations. in addition - and i have heard this fear from other members here - the expected simplification will be replaced by other administrative burdens, by requests for information from the tax administration, from potential lenders, even from the trade unions. they all ask for transparency. and let us not forget: the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a major obstacle to the development of the internal market. although fewer charges are expected, they could be increased, and this is what the representative sme organisations in many countries, including europe, fear. that's a fear i share. i therefore, with all due respect for the good intentions of the commission and the work of mr lehne and the legal affairs committee, cannot support this report. i do support what we have asked for in the sterckx report in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, in particular a thorough impact assessment prior to the general amendment of the fourth company accounting directive which has been announced to us. it has been announced for this year and it will not cost us much delay.
mr president, i can only agree with the conclusions of our colleague anna hedh's report, particularly as regards the need for an active consumer policy, particularly in protecting vulnerable and low-income consumers. i would also like to emphasize a few other essential points of this policy. the consumer markets scoreboard is an interesting statistical tool, but it is quite inadequate because it focuses exclusively on the functioning of the consumer sector, but without seeking to solve the problems of the consumer citizen within this market. the consumer scoreboard should not be limited to observing market demand and consumers as passive end-users. it is becoming increasingly clear that consumers must now play a responsible and active role in sustainable, ethical, social and ecological consumption. the picture must therefore be reoriented and include indicators on the social and environmental aspects of these choices, which are becoming increasingly important. finally, the examination of the acquis should include legislation on energy consumption, transport, the environment, digital technology, etc. (the president cut the speaker off)
the report gives a very strange example of why we should have this flexibility, namely the example of a foreign student who gets a visa to study in belgium and who, thanks to the new system, can now start researching in a dutch library and then travel to barcelona. good for that student! but that's not what this is about. schengen and the whole european visa policy mean something quite different in practice from free travel for students. it means a complete dismantling of our frontiers, giving free rein to organised crime and illegal immigration without having to face watertight external borders, which should be the mainstay of the whole system. for example, a direct consequence of schengen is that the masses of spanish regularised illegals are allowed to move freely to the other member states. i think that this house would do better to reflect on the consequences of these decisions for ordinary europeans, rather than thinking about the daily practical problems of foreign students.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs anna hedh on consumer protection. this own-initiative report rightly recognises the crucial role of consumer organisations as they are the organisations which are the best at alerting the public authorities to the problems consumers face on a daily basis. i also support the requirement for member states to consult consumer organisations properly at all stages of the decision-making process, the transposition and the implementation of consumer legislation. the need to include long-term indicators in the consumer markets scoreboard, for example market shares, quality, advertising, transparency and comparability of offers, enforcement and consumer empowerment indicators, social, environmental and ethical indicators, and indicators for measuring consumer recovery and harm, is also of great importance. the only two points of disagreement i see in this report are the rejection of the green amendment to draw lessons from the energy market failure and our amendment calling for a revision of the toy directive. that amendment failed and that remains a regrettable matter. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and his colleagues in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on this excellent report.
in writing. - the report by mr busoi on solvit is very important. in the exercise of my parliamentary mandate, i am contacted many times a week by citizens who often ask me very personal and very specific questions about the operation of community law. often i can help them immediately by referring them to solvit. the report we adopted today clearly shows the benefits of this instrument. it is a very balanced work, because it clearly indicates the steps to be taken to improve the instrument. a good media strategy is certainly needed to raise awareness of solvit. the creation of a unique internet address can help to achieve this. it is clear that solvit needs to become even more efficient. this can be done by strengthening cooperation between officials with a sufficiently high level of knowledge. the recommendation to member states to provide more staff to solvit centres for administrative capacity building in the various ministries at national level is also crucial. the aim is to have all solvit centres responding quickly to the questions and coming up with real solutions. solvit was created for that very purpose.
in writing. − the ecr group is a firm supporter of strong and effective competition policy as a tool both for protecting the consumer and encouraging fair access to markets. we are happy to support the actions taken by the commission in recent years in pursuit of these aims, and in particular their actions against unfair state aid. thus, it is to our dismay that the report, which was initially well drafted, has been made less effective by the irrelevant and unwelcome additions of paragraphs pre-empting the outcome of the negotiations on the financial supervisory architecture, calling for a common consolidated corporate tax base and attacking the right of enterprises to employ contract staff. members of our group have in the past voted in favour of reports on the commission's competition policy and our hope is that such reports will in future emerge from the economic and monetary affairs committee in better shape. our abstention reflects this concern, and we reiterate in this explanation of vote our support for the continued good work of the commission in the field of competition.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, there is now a broad consensus that strong economic governance is needed in the european union. that's already a huge change from the last few years. last sunday, mr schäuble said that he was in favour of a european monetary fund but also of other proposals and options, such as the creation of a european debt agency, eurobonds or a european credit rating agency. according to a commission spokesman, mr barroso, things are moving fast at the moment. i have three very specific questions. firstly, is it true that the commission is working on a proposal to create this european monetary fund? secondly, is it true, as mrs merkel says - i have my doubts about that - that we need to amend the treaty to do this? and thirdly, do you also agree that this fund could be just a first step towards a real european treasury, which we need with economic and monetary union?
on behalf of the alde group. i would first like to thank the president of the commission for his reply. i agree with him that the fund as such cannot solve the problems immediately. i therefore ask that the commission's thinking be directed towards the various options. there is the european monetary fund, it is a longer-term project; there are eurobonds, another idea, which can of course help in the greek problem; there is the rating agency of the president of the eurogroup, which is absolutely necessary, so that we are not always dependent on rating agencies abroad; then there is the idea of a european debt agency. so my request is to bring all these ideas together to come up with a coherent idea from the commission rather than from one or the other of the member states.
madam president, i would like to welcome mrs hedegaard to our house. commissioner, i am delighted to welcome you for your first presentation and to repeat what i said to you at your hearing, to congratulate you on the enthusiasm you are instilling in our debates, you who are embodying climate diplomacy in some way, with, of course, our parliament at your side again and again. europe must be more aggressive, i am convinced, and must draw out its weapons much more than its intentions. my question, which will be easy for you, is somewhat similar to that of my chairman of the committee on the environment, since i am also convinced that europe must now make sure that the climate dimension is systematically integrated into all its trade agreements with third countries, with a european carbon tax if that is the only language understood by those who do not want to grasp the scale of the challenge. another question, perhaps a little more iconoclastic, from me, a proposal that calls for a reaction from you in any case: could not the european parliament and the commission, the institutions, also set an example by declaring themselves carbon neutral, that is to say by offsetting their co2 emissions to at least assume - but this is only one aspect - the environmental cost of our travel in strasbourg?
vice-president of the commission. − of course the shift in modality, as it is called, to have a preference for the transport of goods by rail is also a clear preference for the commission, but that has been a desire for decades. we must now find and abolish the bottlenecks that stop us taking full advantage of railways. there are many things which must be done and i think that, during this commission’s term in office, we can move this forward a little. i should say that the use of mobile phones while driving, at least in some countries – my own country included – is prohibited. regarding actions to address casualties and deaths in road-traffic accidents, this commission had, during this action plan, the ambitious target of reducing the number of deaths by 50%. it was not achieved but the reduction in the number of deaths was substantial. this was of course brought about by the common efforts of european institutions, but above all of member states. in my own country, for instance, the reduction in the number of deaths has been even more remarkable during this decade – almost threefold. we have reserves and, although we will never reach zero accidents, we can do a lot to reduce the number of casualties. this is, of course, a very complex issue which includes not using alcohol, better roads, better conditions, education, training – all these things.
vice-president of the commission. − the train accident in buizingen on monday 15 february was a shocking tragedy and, in the aftermath of this serious accident, several technical and political questions concerning rail safety can be asked. the causes of the accident are not yet fully known and the technical investigation has been launched in accordance with the provisions of the eu safety directive. the belgian investigation body has the responsibility for carrying this out. two investigators from the european railway agency joined the belgian team in charge of the investigation just a few hours after the accident had occurred. i would like to stress that, as long as the causes of the accident have not been clarified, it is inappropriate to draw conclusions. as is all too often the case when rail accidents happen, remarks alleging a link between european rules or regulations and the accidents have been made. i would first like to be very clear on the opening-up of the market. alongside the opening-up of the rail freight sector to competition and the establishment of requirements to separate the activities of infrastructure managers and railway undertakings, a stringent regulatory framework was introduced covering rail safety and interoperability. we have carefully monitored this opening-up of the rail sector to competition to ensure that it has no negative impact on rail safety, and the indicators clearly show no such impact. i also see no relationship between the accident and the reasoned opinion we sent to belgium in 2008 regarding the lack of independence between infrastructure managers and rail undertakings. any proposition linking rail safety levels to rail market opening is, in my view, just an excuse to steer the debate away from the true causes of the accident. the question of the coexistence of national and european train control systems can be put in these terms. more than 20 different national systems are used in europe today to ensure the safe movement of trains. the incompatibility of the different national systems poses a major problem for international trains because either locomotives have to be changed at each border or they have to be equipped with several onboard systems. for this reason, a single system for use at european level has been designed and developed and is currently being installed on major international lines and trains in europe. the system is known as ertms, the european rail traffic management system. as regards the timing, most of the national systems were developed in the early 1980s, but their deployment is a long and costly process. in most of the countries where these systems exist, only part of the national networks and locomotives have been equipped to date, and this partial installation of the equipment took approximately 20 years. ertms specifications have been available since 2000. a number of pilot projects were carried out between 2000 and 2005. since 2005, several ertms equipped lines have been put into service. at present 10 member states have lines with ertms and there are projects ongoing in almost all member states. in belgium, for example, the line between aachen and liège is equipped and intercity trains running on this line are equipped. the ertms will, therefore, probably coexist with national systems for a period of 20 years. some member states will benefit earlier than others from the european system. we see, for example, that the italian and spanish high-speed network is already almost fully equipped, that the conventional network of luxembourg is also almost fully equipped, while in 15 member states there are only pilot lines or projects. it should also be noted that automatic train protection systems are just one element contributing to the safety of the network. appropriate training, sound maintenance and better protection of level crossings are other important components for safety. if we take a broader range of safety indicators, overall data show that railway safety standards in europe are generally very high.
the lessons to be drawn from this tragedy, mr president, commissioner, are indeed a question for the belgian services, for the belgian authorities. in fact, a special committee of inquiry will be set up in the belgian parliament shortly to look into the matter. one more question for you, commissioner. what is your view of the social aspect, the aspect of the workload for the train crew, and especially for the train drivers? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner very much for the answers he has given to a number of very specific questions. he did not answer a question i asked him about the commission's declaration of default on belgium's part back in 2008. in 2009 it was again established that infrabel lacked independence from nmbs and the holding company. i wonder how much time the commission is giving the nmsb to carry out the necessary restructuring.
vice-president of the commission. − i agree with the honourable member. there is nothing more unfair than treating unequal groups in the same way. we really have to consider utilising the scarce resources which we have in a very active and intelligent way. the european union agency for fundamental rights has, of course, some objectives to fulfil but, if parliament or the commission ask the agency to accomplish a certain task, the agency will certainly do that. therefore, i would ask the member to hand me the questions he would like to ask the european union agency for fundamental rights to tackle and i will see what can be done in a positive way.
mr president, i understand the imperatives of timing. i would just like to stress the need to dedicate a particular year to violence against women, as this subject is often still taboo. too many women are victims of violence, often physical, of course, but also verbal, psychological and often in the family environment, and are ashamed to admit it. it is true that a year devoted to this problem would certainly make it possible to reduce this taboo phenomenon and thus to fight violence against women better.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank mr simpson and the committee on transport and tourism for initiating this discussion and for promoting competitiveness and openness in the railway sector. i have always had strong support in parliament and i hope this will continue. the report on rail market monitoring which the commission published at the end of 2009 shows that the progressive decline of the railways since the 1970s has been stopped in all market segments after the opening of the market and adoption of the first package. so there are some positive notes as well. however, the economic crisis has had a serious impact on rail, with rail freight operators losing up to 30% of their business; this crisis has highlighted and increased existing structural problems of the railways. these problems are on the one hand linked to the economics of rail and the persisting financial weakness of some actors. a number of member states still fail to ensure sufficient budget for the infrastructure managers. this not only results in underinvestments which undermine the quality and performance of the rail network, it also builds up indebtedness levels. on the other hand, there are still economic and technical barriers to market entry. very often new entrants find themselves discriminated against, in particular where incumbent rail operators also have indirect control over the provision and use of rail infrastructure. the newly established regulatory bodies do not all have the necessary powers and independence to ensure fair and transparent market conditions. the commission adopted a two-tier approach to tackle these problems: infringement procedures to address incorrect implementation of the rules, and changes to the rules when they were not clear or precise enough. the first line of approach – infringement procedures – required a detailed analysis of the legal situation in all the 25 member states that have railway systems and resulted in the reasoned opinions that were sent out in 2009. the main problems are, first, insufficient implementation of the provisions of the directive on track access charging; second, lack of independence of the infrastructure manager in relation to railway operators and the failure to ensure sufficient independence, resources and powers for the regulatory body. the second line of approach was to take advantage of the announced process of recasting the existing rail packages to propose improvements to the existing rules on rail market access. in parallel we will pursue our holistic approach with a view to achieving a genuine internal market for rail. we will continue to promote the technical harmonisation of rail in conjunction with the european railway agency.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. if the belgian painter magritte had painted the guidelines of the first railway package, he would certainly have written under them: 'these are not guidelines'. in fact, i think the whole discussion we have had for some time is almost surreal. we made decisions in 2003, implementation should be completed by 2006, and in 2010 we ask the question why 21 countries do not join what they themselves signed up to. the liberalisation should allow new players to enter the market. that was the theory. the practice here is also quite different. and today we are in a situation where we would have to make an assessment of this liberalization, whether we are opponents or supporters of liberalization in this area, and we are faced with the problem that it has not been implemented to a large extent. the companies, for their part - we have seen this in various countries - have taken decisions in the name of so-called liberalisation, affecting personnel and technology, which were not always pleasant, although this liberalisation was not implemented. against this background, we must also note that historical railway beneficiaries, in this sense, continue to hold the keys to the opening of the market. these keys can open the door to an open market, but they can also close the door. and that was the case in most countries and is still the case today. that is why the proposals you have made here, which we have briefly noted, are a first step. i think that in order to assess liberalisation correctly, we must implement it quickly or force it through with the means that the commission has or will have to provide.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to point out that the market share of rail freight transport first declined from around 13% in 1995 to 10.5% in 2002, and then stabilised. in passenger transport, where liberalisation has not really worked or is not being applied, we have actually seen an increase in recent years. i would like to say that market opening can only be a means and that a successful single european railway market must actually be a combination of measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. only if we tackle this in a coherent and coherent way can we succeed in our endeavour. commissioner, i have one more question. we are told that there is indeed a review of that first railway package. the question is: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, the inspiration for this first railway package was almost 15 years ago. at that time, the main objective, which i of course share, was to gain market share for the railways. liberalisation, which was one of the means to achieve this, has produced mixed results and has not always been very successful. as we have said, rail freight market shares are stagnating while road is gaining market shares. at the same time, the number of passengers has increased considerably, while there has been no process of liberalisation and the high-speed rail network, which is built on the basis of cooperation and not competition, is rather a success. besides, you mentioned some new entrants. these new entrants are very few in number and many of them have been absorbed by large companies. in other words, i am not sure that the monopoly of large companies was the goal. as regards implementation, if we refer to the number of infringement procedures, there is objectively a well-known problem, in particular with regard to the lack of independence of the regulatory and appeal bodies, including where there is a functional or institutional separation, a separation which can also lead to other problems and costs in terms of internal coordination. in the meantime, commissioner, i can only encourage you to adopt a prudent approach, one that does not force things, that continues the holistic approach you have mentioned, that goes through the evaluation of the previous packages without bias, but that goes through the evaluation first before taking the next step. this assessment must therefore be uncompromising, including with regard to working conditions, safety and security, public service obligations, insufficient internalisation of external costs, before further committing to the liberalisation process. i would therefore be interested to hear what your priorities are in this area, given some of the progress - it must be acknowledged and others have said it - namely, better transparency in accounting reporting, progress in interoperability, harmonization of training, licensing, and in signage and safety. but there is still a lot to be done and i would ask for a careful assessment, without complacency and without taboos, so as not to move too quickly on to the next steps.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). madam president, i first of all wish to welcome you and to express the hope that your excellent and substantial speech today does indeed mark the end of a particularly difficult period for all of us, which began in november when the mandate of the previous commission was coming to an end. because if one thing is clear, it is that we cannot afford such long periods of business continuity. in the period from the end of november until recently it seemed - i am sorry to say - as if the eu had disappeared from the world scene, or almost disappeared, and we cannot - i repeat - under any circumstances allow that to happen. because the world is not waiting for us, of course. you have quoted a number of figures which clearly illustrate this. but a number of events have also illustrated this clearly: i am not going to go into the details of the situation, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. we therefore need a high representative/vice-president of the commission who has the ability to be present on the ground and also in the european and other decision-making centres in the world. you knew, and we knew, that you were embarking on a nearly impossible task. i admire you for taking them on. we promised you we would support you in that. we are glad to hear you today and to hear you speak strongly about the european external action service, which we all so badly need. if everyone would stop fighting what are called turf wars - one with gloves and the other without - then i am sure that we can all prepare well for the future. thank you for your attention.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we have unfortunately not seen much of a strategic vision. what do you propose to do, for example, to ensure that there is a greater rapprochement with russia, rather than allowing russia to continue to slip into collusion with criminal regimes such as those of iran and north korea? what are your proposals in relation to iran's efforts to develop nuclear weapons? what attitude will you take to the growing anti-western and anti-european tendencies in the muslim world? this is a trend which can also be observed in a candidate country like turkey. are you prepared, mrs ashton, to defend european achievements, such as the right to freedom of expression and the separation of church and state, in a clear and uncompromising way in the face of the growth of political islam? the weak stance adopted by the eu a few years ago in connection with the danish cartoon crisis is, in my view, not likely to be repeated. i would also like to ask you, as mr provera has done, whether you are prepared to use the common foreign and security policy to control the mass flow of immigration into europe? i'm talking about both illegal and legal immigration flows. you didn't answer that.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the vote we have just seen is remarkable in two respects. the first is that the three main groups decided to make a joint resolution by tabled six minutes before the deadline, which made it impossible for the other groups to amend. this closed-minded attitude is not worthy of this parliament. second, if only to produce a text that made sense! at a time when the commission, with the same political families, is able to come up with five objectives, with six policies to support those objectives, this parliament is coming out with a resolution that says absolutely nothing about nothing, with the support of the three big political families. i think it contributes to the ridicule of this parliament which, in a debate as important as europe 2020, is capable of nothing but breaking open doors.
in writing. the european parliament approved on wednesday a proposal to remove the obligation for small and medium-sized enterprises to publish their annual accounts. in an effort to reduce the administrative burden, the european commission has proposed that countries that wish to do so may exempt their smes from the annual reporting requirement under current eu legislation. i was not in favour of this repeal because because of the commission's proposal, the european regulatory and harmonised framework will disappear for more than 70% of european companies. the option of exempting micro-entities from the obligation to draw up and publish annual accounts will not result in a reduction in administrative burden. my fear now is that irregular application by member states of the option to exempt micro-entities will lead to a fragmentation of the single market. this is also why belgian meps and the government have fiercely opposed the european proposal (belgium has also gathered around it a blocking minority in the council of ministers, where the proposal has yet to be voted on).
in writing. i voted against the lehne report and the commission proposal. this is a step backwards in terms of the internal market, with a clear risk of distortions of competition between small european smes. let us be clear: the consequences of this proposal have been woefully underestimated, and they have not taken into account the fact that in the absence of a european directive, each member state will impose its own rules in this area. it is therefore not surprising to see all the associations for the defence of smes, european associations - and also belgian ones, as far as i am concerned - the union of the middle classes, the feb - massively opposed to this proposal. yes, a thousand times yes to reducing the administrative burden on businesses, and in particular on smes, but in a coherent way, through a proposal for a general revision of the 4th and 7th company law directives.
in writing. - the adoption of the 'small business act' by parliament in march 2009 launched a series of policy proposals to make the business environment in europe more sme-friendly, including through administrative simplification. the abolition of the accounting system for so-called micro-entities may appear to be a major administrative simplification, but given the importance of financial information for all stakeholders including creditors, tax administrations and trading partners, it will open the door to greater administrative burdens and higher costs. moreover, the companies deny themselves a useful tool of internal business monitoring. i do, however, support the request made by the economic affairs committee, in particular a thorough impact assessment of the meaning of a possible exemption for micro-entities, to be framed in a general review of the fourth and seventh directives. in my view, the proposal does not contain the right instruments to deal effectively with the problem of red tape. for these reasons i voted against the commission's proposal. since the report by my very respected colleague mr lehne uses the same principles as the commission proposal, i was unfortunately unable to support his report either. i look forward to a wise and considered decision by the council.
in writing. there were high hopes for the lisbon strategy, whose economic, social and environmental objectives were as necessary as they were ambitious. the successor strategy, the europe 2020 strategy, which was voted on today, seems to me to be much less ambitious. while it retains some targets to be achieved, such as the 3% of gdp to be devoted to research and the maintenance of the stability and growth pact (3%), it is nevertheless regrettable that employment and the (very reduced!) environmental dimension do not occupy a transversal place. we are still a long way from a truly comprehensive strategy for sustainable development! nevertheless, i supported this proposal because it is very clear that in the face of the crisis and its many consequences, especially on employment, we cannot sit idly by. i welcome the adoption of the paragraphs on an ambitious social agenda and improving support for smes. in short, a new breath was needed. let us hope that the europe 2020 strategy will bring it. above all, we hope that the 27 member states will do their utmost to make this strategy effective.
in writing. europe is not the most competitive economy in the world in 2010. far from it, with a gdp declining by 4% and 23 million citizens unemployed, it has a not very good record. if the european union needs a severe shock to put the economy and employment back in a virtuous circle, it must do so with similar objectives but a profoundly revised methodology compared to that of the lisbon strategy. it must also take account of the negotiations that await it in the fields of energy, climate, industry and agriculture. that is why i support the pragmatic approach of the new 2020 strategy. ensuring that 75% of the working age population is actually in employment, and achieving the 3% of gdp target for research, remain more than ever the objectives that europe must achieve. but the 27 capitals still have to play along. this is why we ask that we consider penalties and incentives for good and bad students in the 2020 strategy (§14). punishment on one side, incentives on the other. the stick and the carrot. it's old as the world, but it works!
in writing. - i voted against the joint resolution because the three major parties seem to be endorsing the barroso ii commission's business as usual approach. my constituents expect a different approach and want europe's eu 2020 strategy to be a green new deal, a 21st century green revolution, reconciling human development with the physical limits of the earth. the european commission remains committed to uncritically increasing gdp growth. greens and environmentalists want the eu 2020 strategy to be transformed from a purely gdp growth strategy into a broader political concept of the eu's future as a social and sustainable union that puts people and environmental protection at the centre of policy and aims to create wellbeing and the best opportunities for all. in our view, gdp should include a range of indicators of well-being, as well as indicators which take account of broad external economic factors and pressures on the environment. my group therefore submitted an eight-page text detailing our alternative approach. i prefer that text to the compromise of the three largest groups.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the eu 2020 strategy because paragraph 6 on the restructuring of social security systems and greater flexibility for employers was adopted. furthermore, it is more like a catch-all of more or less good intentions to the detriment of precise quantitative and qualitative objectives; the eu's lisbon strategy is a success story, but it is not the only one.
in writing. - president, ladies and gentlemen, in the short term, it is crucial to work on an exit strategy from the crisis, but in the medium term more is needed. if we really want to give the social market economy, our social model, a chance, we need more economic growth, green growth that makes us competitive and creates new jobs. furthermore, investing in research and development into innovative products, manufacturing processes and services is crucial to maintaining our standard of living in the global economy. this drive for structural reforms is reflected in the 2020 strategy proposed by the commission. it is also crucial that the commission should shift its focus from the current situation to a smaller number of measurable targets to be set by the member states. as this resolution rightly states, we are still hungering for the enforceability of the objectives proposed. the lack of a genuine sanction mechanism for failure to achieve the objectives, even if there is insufficient effort, leaves this 2020 strategy with the same defect as its predecessor. the joint resolution provides a good basis for further discussions with the commission, the council and the president of the european council. i therefore strongly supported this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the goldstone report, not least because it recognises that the people of gaza continue to live in appalling conditions as a result of the blockade and calls for the immediate, permanent and unconditional opening of the border crossings. the adopted text calls for the implementation of the recommendations in the goldstone report and for accountability for all violations of international law, including allegations of war crimes. the report is the result of balanced and thorough research, after site visits and interviews with witnesses. the report states that violations of international humanitarian law have been committed by various parties. the report points out the following responsibility of senior officers in the israeli army: the indiscriminate use of white phosphorus, the failure to distinguish between civilians and combatants, the human consequences of the blockade, which is a collective punishment and a violation of the laws of war. the report contains enough elements to call on the un secretary-general and the security council to initiate a legal procedure, which is the best guarantee to dispel all doubts and discussions about the events in gaza. i regret that the epp did not support this text.
madam president, commissioner, minister, the death of orlando zapata is a dramatic testimony to the despair to which the lack or absence of freedom can lead. as the minister said, this obviously should not happen. we must denounce the continued imprisonment of prisoners of conscience and demand their release. we cannot condone the arbitrariness of a power which obstinately refuses to open itself to the exercise of the most fundamental freedoms, but i am convinced that we cannot deprive ourselves of the virtues and prospects of a political dialogue which remains, more than ever, the most tangible expression of our european values. relations between cuba and the european union have been complex for a very long time, often based on blindness and misunderstanding which have led to serious rigidities and which regularly undermine progress or prospects for political dialogue. we all know that cuba is now at a turning point in its history. i am more convinced than ever that we would be wrong not to preserve the advantages and advances, however modest, of a dialogue nourished by particular historical, cultural and linguistic ties. the european union is perhaps the only political power capable of convincing the cuban people that the isolation in which they are confining themselves is suicidal and can only lead them, sooner or later, to a tragic fate. we cannot escape the responsibility we have to continue the dialogue without excluding any difficult issues but without practicing - as i believe is too often the case - double standards.
i have received, in accordance with rule 110 (2), seven motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
president. - i voted in favour of the resolution on cuba because it is already a rather critical resolution on the totalitarian regime in havana. at the same time, i would also like to take this opportunity to call on the council to stop its attempts to normalize relations with cuba, while we are still dealing with a communist dictatorship where human rights are being flagrantly violated. i would also call on the new high representative not to go further than what the commission did in the previous legislature. i would mention, for example, mr louis michel, who has visited cuba on several occasions without expressing the slightest criticism of the human rights and democratic situation there. it is totally unacceptable for the european union to make flatbreads with the communist dictatorship in cuba.
author. - mr president, commissioner, gilad shalit was 19 when he was kidnapped in a hamas attack near gaza. not in gaza, but in israel, in a kibbutz where his unit was stationed. for almost four years, this young man has been living in a basement, with no visitation rights, no doctor, no lawyer, no mail, no trial, no geneva convention for gilad, nothing. the man who is wrongly called soldier shalit was doing his military service like all the young men in his country. a rather shy boy, like his father, whom we have met on several occasions and whom we are pleased to welcome back to our house today, a young man who loved maths, who loved football and who would, of course, have returned to civilian life had he not been living for the past four years in a hole, cut off from the world and cut off from his family. i do not want to talk to you about politics this afternoon, commissioner, i do not want to talk to you about the middle east, about conflicts, about negotiations or about prisoner exchanges. our parliament is unanimous today in asking you to help a young man to return home, a young israeli, a young frenchman, a young european. that is why i am writing to lady ashton today, with my colleagues who drafted this resolution and members of six political groups, mrs essayah, mr dany cohn-bendit, mr richard howitt, mr charles tannock and mr bastiaan belder, who has just spoken. we very strongly urge mrs ashton, who will be visiting israel and gaza from next wednesday, to use all her weight to call for the release of gilad shalit, the weight given to her by the mandate of our resolution of this thursday, the weight of the 500 million european citizens we represent here. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i think the conclusion we can all draw epp, greens, socialists, liberals and all the other groups, except the eurosceptic groups, who are perhaps happy with what is happening in europe at the moment is that we now need clarity in the european council. for weeks now, the battle has been raging outside the european institutions over the question of what to do for greece, what to do for the euro zone. we have never seen anything like it: for weeks, instead of making decisions, we are fighting over what action to take, and we say everything and the opposite. and i will go further, mr president. i have the impression that in four days some members of the council have done more damage to the european project than all the eurosceptics put together in four years. that's how i feel today. (applause) i would like to thank the only way to change and stop this is a firm decision on the basis of a commission proposal. i am glad that mr barroso has announced today that he is going to propose a solution to the council, a solution - and i agree with what mr daul said - which must be european, community-wide, and which is not a solution consisting of asking for what we have been saying for months, asking for money from the taxpayers' pockets to give it to greece. that's not what this is about. in fact, it is the need for a european instrument to lower the interest rates on greek government bonds. and the best way to do that is not to have these bonds issued by one country - greece - but to do it at the european level, which holds the liquidity and the credibility. in determining the interest rate, there are two things that matter: liquidity and credibility. europe has the credibility and the liquidity to do so, and that is how we are going to be able to lower interest rates in greece without a single euro of taxpayer money going to greece. and that is absolutely necessary, mr president, because today the spread is the difference between the german rate, which is now 3.05%, and the greek rate, which is currently 6.50%. that's a spread of 350 basis points. the only way to solve this is to do what is really necessary, and that is this european instrument. a second reason for this necessity is that the efforts which the greeks are going to make, must make, are obliged to make, must serve something. because if we do not opt for a european solution, if we cannot bring down these interest rates, in the end, all the efforts that the greeks will make will be spent on the capital markets. that is what will happen if we do not take a firm decision at this council. the greeks will make an effort, they will save money, and who will benefit? the speculators, the capital markets, etc., who are going to have much higher interest rates. (applause) i would like to thank that is why europe must intervene. europe must intervene if the greek recovery measures are to be effective. they are necessary but they must also be useful. and that is why we support, and the whole parliament must now support, the proposal that the commission is going to make, and we must hope that the members of the council will be silent and approve. that's what we're hoping for.
i have listened to everything that has been said here with a reasonable and therefore very great suspicion. we know from our own experience, from the experience of the referendums in the netherlands and france and last but not least from the referendum in ireland, how the eurocracy deals with the will of the people and with the expressions of the will of the citizens. what is the essence of the citizens' initiative? in essence, it has been a cover for the bleeding, a show of façade which, at the lisbon treaty, was supposed to suggest a little citizen participation without that participation actually coming into the decision-making process. and that's what we've heard so far. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what we need in europe are binding referendums, for example on the accession of turkey. we need that to restore democracy, and the citizens' initiative is unfortunately only a kind of castrated caricature of that.
mr president, my colleague mr häfner has mentioned some of the conditions for this initiative to be, as has been said, feasible, credible, legitimate. i wanted to draw our attention to the opinion of the economic and social council, which is very interesting and could also inform the decisions to be taken, and to stress that participatory democracy works when everyone is in his role, whether elected representatives of parliament and the council, civil society organisations or unorganised citizens for whom the citizens' initiative is an opportunity. in this respect, commissioner, since article 11 of the treaty also provides for the possibility of establishing a structured and organised dialogue with civil society, i would like to ask you what initiative you envisage - similar to the social dialogue provided for in the treaties - and whether you intend, alongside the citizens' initiative, which is very interesting and very useful, to organise the dialogue with civil society in a structured and interinstitutional way.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by mr giancarlo scotta, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the quality policy for agricultural products: what strategy to adopt? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the commission's statement on the g20 meeting of employment and labour ministers in washington on 20 and 21 april.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, since i would like commissioner rehn to understand me loud and clear, i will speak in english. i would like, starting from where we are today, to take a look forward. where are we? we have huge and unsustainable public deficits and, mind you, the greens do not support this kind of deficit. second, we cannot ignore the fact that we have already huge and deepening social inequalities. 16% of europeans below the poverty level is not a small figure; 40% of young spaniards under 25 unemployed is not a small figure, and i could carry on. then we are facing climate change and resource scarcity, and all this means there is a need for investment in infrastructure, in education, in research and innovation, etc. so what we believe is that we should really switch gear. herman van rompuy said, after the february summit, that coordination of macro-economic policy needs to be considerably increased and improved. of course. what does that mean? it means of course that in terms of budgetary expenditure we need to have more peer review, more ex ante control. greece has 4% of its gdp going to military spending. they have got an air force that is as big as the luftwaffe. i mean, how come? it is such a tiny country and they are arming themselves like hell. but if we just look at the expenditure side, we will not succeed. we need to look, and to take a hard look, at coordinating our tax revenue because, what do we need to do? we need to rebalance tax income away from labour income towards other forms of income, including capital income. we need to make sure that we have an effective corporate contribution – effective, not just on paper – and that means ccctb country-by-country reporting, etc. we need to implement the financial transaction tax; we need to implement the carbon tax, both to shift behaviour and to provide income. and we cannot do that just by asking countries to coordinate their policies. we need more integration. if we do not do that, our governments will prove incapable of reconciling the need to balance budgets and to meet social needs and investment needs. so i believe that europe is now at a critical juncture. the choice is between a higher degree of integration, not just coordination, and decline. the lesson that i take from copenhagen is not just that we missed the climate agreement. it is that europe has proved to be irrelevant if it is not acting together. we spend too much time coordinating, too little time acting together. so that would be our contribution to this debate.
the fact is, mr president, that those who deny a problem, who deny the truth, cannot solve it. that's a fact. we should realize that with our resolution on the roma in europe, which is a document full of politically correct nonsense, we cannot therefore propose any solution or offer any solution because we are denying the problem. we must therefore first of all recognize that there are indeed major problems with large numbers of roma who are completely outside our society and who are very often also responsible for very serious and minor crime. many of the values and norms, or the lack of them, of the roma communities are contrary to the values and norms we want to see respected in our european countries. what i am saying now may be a little one-sided, but the resolution we have just adopted is much more one-sided in the other direction. in any case, i think that each member state should have the right to decide for itself how to deal with this very real problem.
mr president, this report is one of those extremely politically correct resolutions on which this house seems to have a patent. the economic and social backwardness of the roma is all the result of so-called intolerance and discrimination. if we just impose new quotas and mule-claw laws and if we just turn on the money tap, everything will be solved. the experience in the netherlands has, of course, made it clear that whatever is done, the majority of this community refuses to adapt and integrate. the fact that this community is disproportionately represented in the crime statistics is not our fault, but the fault of the roma community itself, many of whose values and norms are at odds with ours. i therefore oppose any european intervention and reiterate that it is the right of each member state to remove from its territory persons who systematically refuse to adapt and who indulge in criminal behaviour.
i voted against this report, mr president, firstly because i am totally opposed to the priorities which this parliament has proposed to the commission, including the harmonization of immigration policy. i know what that means, that harmonization of the immigration policies of all the member states which is put forward as a priority. i don't agree with that. but i voted against this report first of all because it makes it very clear that this parliament is not in favour of the much-needed de-greasing of official europe. well, on the contrary. we should think carefully about abolishing all kinds of institutions and agencies which have become virtually superfluous or have always been superfluous. this parliament, on the contrary, is calling for more so-called decentralized agencies. again, as far as i'm concerned, we already have too many. there are some that need to be abolished before we could create a new one. i am thinking of the european committee of the regions, i am thinking of the fundamental rights office, i am thinking of the european institute for gender equality. how much does all this cost our taxpayers and what the hell is all this for?
mr president, we should think carefully as a parliament when we make proposals. then those should be proposals for policies that solve problems rather than aggravate them. now, as far as development aid is concerned: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. however, we as a parliament continue to believe that more and more development aid will be directed primarily to african countries. after so many decades of massive development aid, there is no evidence of this, and the facts are, unfortunately, that most african countries are in a much worse situation today than they were immediately after decolonisation. that's one point. point two, very short. of course it is . it is true what is said in this report, that the brain drain, the brain drain, is further undermining the developing countries, but why do we continue to advocate this so-called blue card, which makes the problem even worse.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to make two remarks on last month’s council. the first concerns the mechanism which the council decided on for greece and about which i have serious doubts. i hope that i am wrong, but i do not think that it can work for the simple reason that it is a system of bilateral loans and not a system – a european solution – under which a single loan is made by the european commission to greece, which was the initial idea. (applause)if you look at the markets, it is very apparent at the moment that they do not believe in this system. this did not start yesterday, but a week ago now. last monday – one week ago – there was already an issue surrounding greek bonds being at an interest rate of nearly 6%. that is 300 base points higher than the lowest interest rate in the european union, which is 3%. since there is now a discussion inside the european union between different member states about what the interest rate applicable to the bilateral loans should be, that even increased yesterday to 400 base points, which is 4%. that is not the way to help greece. greece has to take the measures which are necessary, but not with bilateral loans. that mechanism is not in fact helping greece, but punishing it at the moment. it is absolutely necessary that the european commission return as fast as possible to its initial idea of a european loan, issued by the european commission. then you will automatically have lower interest rates than those on the markets today, because there will be this guarantee from the european commission and the european institutions. that is the only way to help the greek government achieve its targets. at the same time, the greek government naturally has to stop its internal struggles. if there are differing points of view with regard to intervention by the international monetary fund, and should such discussions continue, then interest rates will also automatically increase. my second point is that what we need now is more than merely a mechanism for greece or other countries. what we need now is a courageous european commission coming forward with a package of economic reforms and monetary reforms, and we need those as fast as possible. what we need now is a package of the magnitude which we had in the past from jacques delors, who at a certain moment came forward with a package of european economic and monetary union, or the internal market, to solve the problems. we need that now. we need a courageous package. only the european commission can do this. the council cannot do it – not even the president of the council. it is the commission which has the right of initiative, and it is the commission who must now come forward with a real package. (applause) my group feels that three main elements are needed in that package. the first is the creation of a european monetary fund, which is absolutely necessary and was an idea also floated by mr schäuble, the german minister for finance. we need that fund as fast as possible, in order to increase the effectiveness of the stability pact. the second thing we need, as soon as possible, is for the european bond market to lower interest rates for all the countries in the european union. that is not a punishment for the biggest country, germany. on the contrary, you can have a system in which germany pays lower interest rates than today because we can have a liquidity premium attached to the european bond market in the future. the technical means to do this exist and can be made applicable. the third thing we need is a bolder 2020 strategy. i fully support what mrs wortmann-kool said a few moments ago about our needing a stronger governance method. it is not through the open coordination method that we will fulfil our goals. what we need is a method with sticks and carrots, as mrs wortmann-kool put it, with not only the member states, but also the commission, in the driver’s seat. colleagues, we have to think about something: if the council does not in the coming months do what is necessary in terms of a bolder 2020 strategy, then what can we as the european parliament do? what we can do is: in the coming weeks parliament has to agree to the broad economic guidelines and to give an opinion on them. well, if the council has not come forward, supported by the commission, with a bolder 2020 strategy, then i see no need to approve those broad economic guidelines. first of all, there must be a bold proposal, which i hope will be on the table in june, and then we can do our job and approve this bolder approach and the broad economic guidelines.
mr president, mr van rompuy is behind the speaker's chair. as leader of the belgian delegation to the group of the european conservatives and reformists, i would like to welcome you to this parliament. i'd like to ask you a few questions about the 2020 strategy. i agree with you that the next ten years will be about whether europe survives or not. the point is - and i once quoted an american saying: "are we at the table or are we on the menu?" that goes for all of us. i therefore have a specific question which has been raised once, namely the idea of an atlantic free trade area between the european union, the united states and canada. this is not a revolutionary idea. it's not from me, either. it's from chancellor merkel, i think it was in 2007. i can't really find any of that stuff anymore. the ambition to look outside to create open markets in an era of threatened protectionism. it is only open markets, innovation and competitiveness that can strengthen our economy. no subsidy flows and no european funds. i would therefore ask you to look outside and to include this aspect in the eu 2020 plan, because that is the only thing that can save us. if not, we will become the bruges of the global world.
president. - it is quite obvious, it is an open door policy to say that the 2020 objectives are actually quite admirable, most of them. if some member states can use some kind of european incentive for internal political use to take the necessary measures, i can do so. what is particularly surprising, however, also on the part of the president of the council, is that the whole of that eurocracy hardly notices or does not notice that their whole previous master plan and the whole of the lisbon strategy have become a complete miscalculation of the jewels - a pun in the purest form - and that there is really nothing to indicate that this time it will be different. on the contrary, we hear pleas for the flight forward to the creation of a european monetary fund and an even more federal europe. i do not think that is the way we should go, quite the contrary. i am very sceptical about the idea of leaving the whole of european policy in the hands of the eurocrats, who have so far done very little. i would ask the president of the european council to respect the dutch language a little more than he has done so far.
president van rompuy, you will not be surprised to learn that not only i but my whole group are very disappointed with the council's results. you said in your reply that the council is very aware of the balance of the commission's proposal between the economic, the ecological and the social aspects. only you have ignored this balance in the results. you have indeed achieved results in the field of the labour market and r & d. you've been preaching the status quo on climate policy. the 2020 objectives have long been accepted in this parliament and in the various european institutions. you have not - and that is a real shame - respected the poverty objectives, at least in my view, by the fallacy of going to school a little more, you have covered up the disagreement that undoubtedly exists within the council over this social objective with a little love. i am very sorry about that and it is a slap in the face to the 80 million poor people in the european union. you have always - and you are proud of it - presented your role with both modesty and ambition. modest, because you do not take on the role of president of the european union, but ambitious, because you say that your role is primarily to develop a long-term strategy and to implement it in the coming years. well, this is your test - the 2020 strategy and the targets in all those possible areas. you have a re-exam in june. we support you, but the strategy must include clear objectives on poverty.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to say that it is of course a little surreal to have a debate on the blacklist at a time when the whole of european aviation is in chaos, but i understand that we will have the opportunity tomorrow to have a topical debate and we will do so. the blacklist is an important issue in itself and we can say that it has been a success, thanks in part to the impulse of mrs de veyrac, who indeed worked hard on it a number of years ago. we must build on and learn from the experience we have gained. in some areas, some additional efforts are still needed. firstly, in terms of communication with the passengers. it is true that passengers should be informed if they are going to take a blacklisted aircraft somewhere, through a travel agent or something, but often it is passengers who decide on the spot whether to take a domestic flight. i would therefore suggest that we should examine whether it is not possible for travel agencies and airlines which book travel to countries where there are unsafe airlines or unsafe aircraft to inform passengers automatically, even though they are not themselves on the blacklist. we should think about that. a second element is to help avoid adding aircraft, airlines and countries to that blacklist. the european union could do much more to help build capacity in third countries, and certainly in the poorest countries, by providing know-how and by ensuring that the aviation authorities also have the necessary capacity to deal with this. one point raised by mrs de veyrac is, of course, the deception. are we sure we have a waterproof system? are there not gaps here and there which allow airlines from a country on the blacklist to operate via other countries, islands? examples of this are known. finally, i also think we should evolve towards a global blacklist. i would like to know what efforts you have made, for example, in the field of icao, to come to such a list with colleagues from other countries.
the commission has already done so. the blacklist was an interesting achievement of this parliament, led by christine de veyrac and her colleagues of the previous legislature. the blacklist can concern companies, countries or aircraft, and i think that the questions raised in this context should be answered a little more precisely by the commission, especially as regards the way in which companies' rights of participation are regulated in different countries and why and why this procedure is being carried out in relation to individual aircraft. we are also interested in further development. we have already stated in the debate a few years ago that it remains important for us that the commission should improve its follow-up of these acts and measures in communication at least to parliament, because we still have some questions open to us, not least the control of airlines or aircraft that might suddenly fly under a different name, and in view of the fact that today, especially the decisions that could be taken at the last minute, also require a certain degree of transparency. this brings me to the most important point for me, namely information. we are all of us of the opinion - and i think this applies across the groups - that citizens and passengers have the right and therefore the obligation to ensure that companies systematically provide information on the blacklists, that this information is readily available at airports, not least in travel agencies, and that, particularly when flying to certain countries which are already known to have problems, travel agencies should indicate which companies are problematic when there are rebookings. the aim is for this measure, which has already substantially improved safety, to be extended not only to europe and european passengers, but to the whole world.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work, some would even say fantastic work. so thank you and all those who have contributed. perhaps i should remind you that the problem of funding is not new. this case has actually been going on since the moment we adopted a european regulation on the adoption of security measures at european level after the attacks of 11 september 2001. the european parliament has always stressed from the outset that this problem of financing is serious and that we must find a european solution to it. it has always been the council that has prevented this. the council has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. there are, of course, a number of aspects. the first and most essential is the element of transparency. we are not at present taking a position on who exactly is to foot the bill in each of the member states. but what we do want is that consultations be organised, that agreements be reached and that the agreements be respected, in other words that the revenue from safety charges actually be used to finance safety measures and not, for example, some kind of parking. that is essential and it must be clear that we cannot give in on this point. the second important element is that we want to distinguish between security measures which we have agreed on jointly, all of them at european level, and other additional measures which are taken by individual member states. the first is that the rules on transparency are clear and must be applied, the second is that we must make it clear that the financial responsibility lies with the member states and that they must pay the bill for these additional security measures. it is also a bit of an incentive to get more and more european coordinated security measures and if member states decide on their own to introduce body scans and the like, well, then they have to bear the financial consequences of that too.
the commission has already done so. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his work, as well as the other groups. we had an interesting discussion in the committee on transport and tourism. but i think we have already made many compromises with the council, which has shown itself to be very uncompromising here and in the past. because when it comes to the application, the discussion is already underway. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. we should not repeat what we have already done in other areas - whether it is ground handling or air fares - that there are exceptions affecting two or five million passengers. the second point, which is even more important to me, is that passengers are of course given transparency about who is paying for what and how much, and that this is clearly a requirement for both airports and airlines. because that's a very important aspect in my eyes. this brings me to the third point, which is always the sticking point when it comes to payment: financing. i personally believe that public safety should be paid for with public funds. we are already making the compromise that we will leave some things in the so-called subsidiarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. personally, i'm not very happy about it but good. i think that we should at least stick to what we have said here, namely that special measures, more stringent measures, must in any case be paid for by the public authorities. security fees and overall security have increased sharply in recent years. that is why this dossier has an economic aspect. we are now talking about 30% of the cost. and when we talk about security and who pays for it, there will be an economic aspect to it tomorrow. that is why these three points are crucial for me. i hope that we will at least be able to make the council and the commission accept the present demands.
deputising for the rapporteur. − madam president, the chair of the committee on transport and tourism, mr simpson, is not able to join us today and has asked me to read out his statement. the recast on the development of the guidelines of the ten-t network seeks to bring together the various amendments adopted over the years to the guidelines and to incorporate amendments that take account of the enlargement of the eu to 27 member states. to give a bit of background to the report, the guidelines give direction to the development of the trans-european transport network. the objective is to establish the network gradually by 2020 by integrating land, sea and air transport infrastructure networks throughout the union. turning back to the report at hand, it is, strictly speaking, a codification of the legislative text, but, because the commission made some minor changes to the annex, they were forced to do it via the recast procedure. the changes to the annex are to correct initial mistakes that were made during the accession of the 10 new member states that joined in 2004. the changes are not about updating the maps or making any substantive changes. the two changes the rapporteur has introduced to the report involve minor modifications in the recitals and some technical corrections to the maps. these are in line with the changes made by the council and in line with correcting the guidelines. following the commission’s advice, the decision was taken, both by council and by mr simpson as rapporteur with the backing of the transport committee, not to make any substantive changes to the guidelines. the rapporteur is, however, aware that the greens have retabled their own amendments seeking to update the line between munich city and munich airport, but the rapporteur would like to reiterate the point that the changes we are making in this report are about correcting the text, not updating it. the point of this recast is to bring everything into order ahead of the real revision of the guidelines during early 2011. it is important to ensure the clarity of the guidelines in preparation for the more substantial changes that will take place next year. we are all eagerly awaiting the real revision of the guidelines and the chance to further develop the ten-t network but, in order to get to that stage, we need to get the current legislation right, and that is what we have done here.
deputising for the rapporteur. − madam president, i would just like to thank the colleagues who have contributed to the debate today and reiterate my point that we are looking at correcting mistakes made in the past and not at making any substantive changes. that will come later on with the real revision of the guidelines and, of course, we are looking forward to that debate. for this reason, the rapporteur, mr simpson, and myself, as coordinator for my group, will be instructing my own political group to vote against the amendment put forward by the greens. we hope that the other political groups will be able to support us on this.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr van dalen, for his excellent report. it emphasizes a number of essential elements, starting with the importance of shipping for our economy. he also points out that we must compete in a global context, that we must therefore take account of the competitiveness of our maritime sector, but at the same time we must also strive for more sustainable transport and that we must therefore, in other words, counter the risk of de-flagging. at the same time, we must also play on a level playing field. that is why it is important that the state aid rules announced so long ago are brought to bear on our ports. we'll certainly come back to that. three main points of concern. firstly, employment and working conditions. the profession must be made attractive again to young people. that is a very difficult matter today. we need to make more efforts to disseminate information on career opportunities, whether in the countryside or outside. those are things that need to be developed. the working conditions must also be improved by ratifying the legislation of the international labour organisation and also by monitoring it at a global level, not just within europe, of course. the second important point - and this has been mentioned many times - is the impact of shipping on the environment. it is a sustainable means of transport in itself, but there is still much room for improvement. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european maritime safety agency. finally, safety is of course essential. the only way to create an attractive profession is to have it in a safe environment. we must implement the third maritime security package and continue our support for the atlanta mission off the coast of somalia.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! this ban on flights brings us back to the broad debate on safety which we have already had here in parliament on several occasions, and in which we have indicated that we, this parliament - and i believe the commission too - would like to intervene in this matter on a european level, and could if the member states wished to do so. we have not only had this debate on air transport, we have also had it on rail and other matters on many occasions. the question should therefore be put today where it needs to be answered, namely first of all with the aviation authorities in the respective countries and, of course, also with the coordination at european level. this coordination has worked out very well. the first priority for me today is the safety of passengers and not so much the economic aspect, although that aspect must not be lost sight of. the decisions taken in the countries were correct, and i hope that in future eurocontrol and the national aviation safety authorities will take the decision and not individual companies, because we are again faced today with experts who are offering different opinions. therefore, extreme caution is advised. in economic terms, this is of course a disaster for a sector which is already experiencing its third crisis, after 9/11 and after the economic crisis. then we should also start at european level - and not at national level, please - and perhaps provide aid packages which are also compatible throughout europe and do not distort the market again, as we have often known in the past. i am not saying that we should not do this. the passengers - we have rightly discussed this subject many times in this parliament - are now in a situation where even the existing law does not give them all the help they can expect. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations with the united states. the future is and will remain for me the single european airspace. i would also like to point out that we will be discussing this subject more frequently in the european parliament over the next two years.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, i think there are three important elements in this debate. firstly, the reception and repatriation of stranded travellers, that must be the absolute top priority for all authorities at all levels. in this connection, we can see that the european regulation on passenger rights has ensured a minimum of comfort and reception for a large number of them. in practice, however, as you know, there have been a number of problems: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport policy is not disrupted. i therefore also call for a european road map to be drawn up, in cooperation with airlines, airports and all other parties concerned, to see how we can help in situations like this. secondly, i would also like to call for the creation of a kind of task force at the level of the commission and the member states to organise this repatriation as well as possible. i know that airlines have to do that, but it may be that people stranded at a distance will have to wait a long time even when airspace is opened. that should be a focal point. a second important element, chapter two, is the procedure for obtaining a flight ban. what has happened is another plea for more cooperation, more coordination at european level and - as has already been mentioned - the european single sky will help in the future. it is true that today the european union has no direct decision-making power over the airspace of the member states, including eurocontrol, so it is very difficult to take good and coordinated decisions there. but it is also true that until last night we were actually using a very conservative mathematical model at european level. this model is based on the worst-case scenario, where a volcanic ash cloud is interpreted as a no-fly zone. you know that in the united states a different model is used, whereby a no-fly zone is applied only above the volcano itself and the operational risks are in the hands of the airlines. that's a different model. the three-zone intermediate model agreed is a good model. let's see how we can actually combine safety and efficiency there. thirdly, and lastly, the economic impact of the measures. it is a good idea to list the different possibilities, but we need a european approach. and finally, we should not give the illusion that we can reimburse the damage to everyone. i just can't.
i would like to say something to the minister, the president-in-office of the council. not against you personally, but against all the presidents who have preceded you and some who will follow you. how is it possible that you have been blocking a european approach to this kind of thing for so many years? the commission and parliament have to come together again and again and push the council to reach an agreement, which is always a weak compromise. why does the council never think european and always think intergovernmental and national? this is one of the lessons we should learn from this. mr el khadraoui has already said that coordination could be improved, and not just for airspace management. the coordination between national authorities can also be improved, but as you yourself have said, mr minister, europe does not have that much power. well, finally give those powers to europe. that would make things a lot easier. a second point: the scientific information. one centre in london that specialises in a certain number of things decides, together with eurocontrol, to put safety first, and rightly so. is that enough? should we not also strengthen the european model there and ensure that we bring a number of things together and have a real european centre for aviation safety? this volcano is not finished. the last time, so many years ago, 200 years ago, he worked for ten years. so we must prepare for the years ahead. i believe we must strengthen the european model and we must ensure - and this is an important point in parliament - that passenger rights are upheld and that state aid is given equally to everyone.
mr president, even though thousands of people are in great difficulty today, i think that this volcanic eruption sounds like a real call to order: a call to order that urges us to reconsider our relationship to time in transport and, above all, our excessive dependence on air transport which has gradually, and sometimes without our knowledge, replaced all other modes of transport. this is all the more necessary because today, of course, no one can say whether this volcanic eruption will stop or how this cloud will move in the weeks and months ahead. that means that we must first of all maintain - and i support both the commission and the council on this - the precautionary principle and the safety against all hazards, and i am surprised to see that at some point in the pharmaceutical sector, in the name of the precautionary principle, the states and europe have been pushed to make what i think are a little reckless expenditure. today, another sector would like to question or denounce the precaution taken by the states or the european council. i find that abnormal. there's no precaution in the wallet. security and the common good prevail. for the rest, i think that rail transport must of course be developed. this is the top priority and, as my colleague said, it is clear that we have here a preview of what our transport should be, namely that the railway must regain market shares in the short and medium distance. i also think that the diversity of transport and modes of transport is important. this is the whole point of the white paper on which we will have to work in committee. i think in the short term the priority is, of course, to repatriate people, to compensate passengers and perhaps to see what needs to be done for the airlines, but in a very targeted way. i also think that we need to provide much more structural support for videoconferencing. they remain an extremely incidental and insignificant means of communication for the whole, not only for parliament, of course, but also more generally. i think supporting these practices would help us to reduce our dependence on air. i think, finally, because the president asked us to do so, that perhaps the european parliament could, for its part, revise its way of organising itself, by considering, for example, working five days a week for two weeks instead of three or three and a half days a week. it would also be a way of setting an example in the way we organise our work so that we are less dependent on air transport, which is obviously extremely fragile and subject, as nature tells us today, to uncertainties that we have not taken care of. it is really a question of reviewing the whole system, and we will have the opportunity, in the context of the white paper, but also in the european parliament, to review our way of supporting other modes of transport, including in our own working methods.
president, commissioner, colleagues, good morning to you. of course, this is a matter of exceptional circumstances. air traffic is more disrupted than it was on 9/11, but it is clear that we were not prepared for this emergency. despite the best efforts of the staff of tour operators and airlines, many passengers have been left to fend for themselves. we must clearly learn from this and take appropriate action. firstly, mr president, commissioner, we must have an emergency plan, a coordinated european plan. the plan must, of course, focus on safety, information and assistance for stranded travellers, so that those affected have at least a point of contact and a guarantee of shelter. we must take these events to the extreme to improve the lot of the affected travellers in the future. in addition, one thing has become clear in recent days, namely that we in europe need to invest much more in a crossborder high-speed rail network, an environmentally friendly alternative to the clearly fragile air transport. let us work towards an attractive investment project on the railway that is good for the citizen, good for the environment and good for employment in the context of eu 2020.
mr president, chaos, paralysis, cacophony, catastrophe, disaster - there is no shortage of words in the press to describe the closure of european airspace and its consequences. i will not dwell on what has already been said, particularly on the extent of the colossal financial impact - abysmal, one might be tempted to say - of this crisis in direct or indirect terms. while i welcome the possibility of considering granting exceptional public aid to the aviation sector, which has already been badly hit since 11 september 2001, i am nonetheless puzzled by the european management of events. firstly, given that 750,000 european passengers have been affected, many of whom are still stranded in the four corners of the world, and given that the economic losses are exponential with the passage of time, how can it be that it took not one, two, three or four, but five days for the european transport ministers to meet by teleconference to coordinate their actions and decide on the creation of differentiated traffic zones? secondly, no one disputes the need to apply the precautionary principle as a matter of priority - and i stress this word - but today, as traffic is being gradually allowed back into safe areas with unchanged weather and as the volcano is still active, we are entitled to ask ourselves what additional safeguards for passengers we could not have provided earlier, more quickly. third, while a scalable action model has been developed the evolution, according to the weather, and the activity of the volcano can change from hour to hour , who will continue to carry out the updated assessment of the corridors' safety? should these test flights be carried out by civil aviation and airlines? finally, if this continues, worsens or repeats itself - which is likely - the management model put in place will have to provide for greater coordination of member states and special operational procedures based on real data, better coordination of other means of transport in exceptional circumstances but also taking into account the necessary coordination of repatriation assistance for tens of thousands of stranded passengers who also have the right to information and assistance. so far, however, only isolated national initiatives have been taken.
mr president, this debate has given rise to many speeches by transport experts. it is true that we have focused a great deal on the economic problems that this particular and unpredictable situation creates. there are also human aspects, as has been said, and i am more of a consumer citizen advocate, for hundreds of thousands of citizens who are now stranded somewhere in the world and cannot be repatriated. i am thinking more of them, especially those who can no longer afford to stay, are stuck and have no other choice. in view of the empty skies and the airports full of people in distress, we may have to think about revising the transport guidelines, particularly those for air transport. we'll probably have to go over the package-trip thing again. could it not be that - and this has not yet been said - insurance should be taken out to ensure that in cases of force majeure these people are covered, in particular to avoid leaving them in distress?
mr president, i should first like to congratulate the two commissioners responsible for these areas for their intervention and their constant concern to be extremely responsive. congratulations to you! the earthquake in haiti has been the source of a momentum of solidarity and brotherhood of an exceptional scale and largely justified. i also commend the courage and efforts of the haitian people, the haitian authorities, civil society, ngos, the haitian diaspora and, of course, donors from all over the world. the structural and institutional weaknesses in haiti are well known, and this disaster has clearly revealed their dramatic scale. in new york on 31 march, donors made it clear that their financial aid would go to support haiti's reconstruction and development plan. the principle of ownership is therefore established so that haitians can regain a sense of confidence in their institutions, which is urgent. the donors' assistance must of course be well coordinated and of high quality. as president préval says, we must rebuild better, disciplining the generosity of the contributors by creating, among other things, it seems, an interim commission for the reconstruction of haiti and the establishment of a multi-donor trust fund. better rebuilding also requires strengthening governance and institutions based on the rule of law and decentralisation, which are key elements of the conversion and reconstruction plan. i hope, commissioners, that you will of course take this approach into account, which i have no doubt you will do.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr president of the commission, first of all, as regards the no-bailout clause, the treaty does not say that. the treaty says you can't force a state to take back debts. the treaty doesn't say anything about taking back debts. we must say this, otherwise it becomes cacophony about the treaty. i repeat: the treaty clearly states that a state cannot be forced to take back debts. so everything that is being concocted at the greek level concerns things that are possible on the basis of the treaty and that can be implemented. my question is a little different. interest rates on greek loans rose again to 7.6%, 450 basis points higher than the german rate. other measures are therefore needed, and i am thinking of very important substantive reforms: european monetary fund, european bond market, more ambitious 2020 strategy. my question, mr president of the commission, is: when do you intend to table a package of reforms of this kind, including the reforms that mr olli rehn has already started, on the council's table? because that is what needs to be done now, to table an ambitious package of reforms alongside the specific measure for greece.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, may i ask the president of the commission whether the idea of a european monetary fund will be part of this proposal?
mr president, mr president of the commission, the employment situation in europe is very worrying, as my colleagues have just pointed out. in 2009, 2.7 million people in the euro area lost their jobs. in addition, the rate of at-risk-of-poverty among the employed population has risen to 8% of workers in europe, not to mention that nearly 17% of the population live below the poverty line. in view of this situation, do you not think that a strategy based on two main lines should be implemented? on the one hand, by strengthening decent work the 2020 strategy should have included this theme rather than strictly jobs for growth; on the other hand, by increasing the overall employment rate in europe, with a particular focus on the youth - you mentioned this - but also on those over 50. as such, the increase in applications for the globalisation adjustment fund and restructuring in various sectors demonstrate the need to develop a comprehensive industrial policy.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i am following in the footsteps of your first steps as commissioner for agriculture, since, since your hearing and on a few occasions, we have been able to hear with satisfaction your wishes, since you have understood that the hyper-volatility of prices is a great enemy for agriculture and its future, as well as for farmers, who can no longer have long-term prospects, while, of course, investments - especially for the youngest of them - are calculated with maturities of 20 or 30 years. in comparison with this and with the great volatility, it is only six months ago today that stéphane le foll and a few colleagues and i signed an amendment which aimed, in particular, at reducing the increase in milk production by 1%, which had been decided, when we are indeed in a period of overproduction. this amendment was rejected by about 250 votes to 350. in the future, as you said, we will consider regulation. the high-level group is meeting and, from what i hear, they are indeed very high-quality people: not only the producers are represented, but also the distribution. i would like and hope that we do not forget the actors in the middle, between producers and distributors, namely the processors. because margins are also and above all, they make them, more than distribution, in my opinion. i would therefore like to be reassured that they are not forgotten in the discussion. more broadly than the milk sector, indeed, all agricultural sectors are affected by volatility, and i would also venture to say that prices are high. let us be careful, this is not necessarily good for agriculture, since the processors, the users are turning to substitute products. and when prices return to normal or lower, these users do not necessarily return to the original product. i would therefore like to know, mr commissioner - although it may be premature - whether in future you really intend to introduce in all other productions the regulatory mechanisms that producers are so eagerly awaiting.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was wondering what discharge is. discharge is a parliamentary and public procedure, a public critical examination of financial management. in my case, i did that exercise for the european parliament about the year 2008. this will give us as members of parliament, but also the citizens, a better understanding, a better understanding of the particular way parliament is organised, its management structure and its working methods. because, ladies and gentlemen, citizens have a right to know what is happening to their tax money. it's a lot of money. the budget for 2008 is 1.4 billion euro. the budget for 2011 is likely to be eur 1.7 billion. that's an awful lot of money. the procedure is important and the work of the committee on budgetary control is important, because a critical committee on budgetary control makes progress. that's been proven in the past. a critical attitude on the part of the committee on budgetary control has led, for example, to the introduction of a statute for members of parliament, to the introduction of a statute for assistants, to our critical examination of the purchase of buildings here in strasbourg, to the introduction of an emas procedure which has reduced the environmental impact of our work. positive news, ladies and gentlemen, positive news! we have managed to reduce electricity consumption by 25% in three years through our critical attitude. we have managed to use 100% green electricity. we've managed to reduce co2 emissions by 17%. we've managed to reduce our waste streams by 50%, compost or reuse. i have also introduced a new concept in my report, ladies and gentlemen. the concept of 'damage to the reputation of parliament' means that even small effects of financial resources can cause enormous damage to the reputation of this parliament. we'll have to keep an eye out for that. it is very good that a risk manager was appointed to the administration on 24 february. i invite that person to come to the committees responsible and debate with us how we can reduce the risks of malpractice in this parliament. a critical approach is essential, i said. that is why i am calling for transparency, for openness, for the establishment of a system of checks and balances, for responsibility and accountability. i propose, mr president, that you be discharged, because i have not discovered any major fraud, any major malpractice, any major scandal, let that be clear. but my report is critical. i wanted to show in my report that we could do better. my report aims to ensure that, as we head back to the polls in 2014, we are free from scandals of a smaller or larger scale and that we are not plagued by such unfresh media reports. i have tried in my report to provide the secretary-general and the higher administrative bodies of parliament with a number of means of protecting them from certain criticisms. i've covered some of the pain points. the fact that the secretary-general draws up his annual report on the basis of the statements of the directors-general, and i would very much like to see a second opinion. i suggest that we look even more closely at the whole difficult system of public procurement, because it is a very risky element. i propose to ensure that the voluntary pension fund with an actuarial deficit of 121 million euros is not used for public tax money. finally, ladies and gentlemen, a word about the preparation of my report. i've tried to work well with my shadow reporters. the amendments tabled are very constructive. i do regret that at one point the ppe group tabled some 50 amendments to delete important parts of my report. i can only explain this by the fact that there has been interference between certain structures in this parliament and the members who have wanted to do so. i regret that, because i have tried to put forward a very constructive and very positive approach in this discharge report, as a pro-european mep in particular, but also as a critical mep.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. president. - ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr president-in-office, i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party and not as rapporteur for the discharge of parliament. i'll get a chance to do that later. i'd like to address a few issues. first, in connection with the discharge of the commission. it is a question for the commissioner and for the council. this is linked to the fact that 80% of our resources are actually spent in the member states and that we as a parliament have been advocating national management declarations for many years. the rapporteur, mr liberadzki, has clearly outlined in a number of paragraphs the new possibilities. we have a new treaty, and the second paragraph of article 317 of the new treaty has new wording and allows the commission to come forward with proposals to introduce mandatory national management declarations as soon as possible. i would ask you, mr šemeta, to refer to that in your reply. are you prepared to take that chance? now there are four member states that are already doing so. that's a good thing, but they do it in four different ways, so let's just tune that up a little bit. the council will say: yes, but there are practical problems, there are member states which are federal member states and which have entities between them, such as belgium with wallonia, brussels and flanders, and how can the national federal minister of belgium come up with a national management declaration? that's not a problem, fellas. as a national minister, he simply has to make arrangements with his regional ministers, wait for their regional policy statements and management statements and then bring the whole thing to this parliament and to public opinion. he can say, for example, that wallonia and brussels are doing well, that flanders is doing badly, or vice versa, and so on. second element of the equation. the resolution by mr liberadzki deals with the special report by the court of auditors on pre-accession aid to turkey. i think that wording is not very good. it is being used a little bit in some respects and in some paragraphs to interfere in the accession negotiations. i have tabled a number of amendments with mr geier to delete it. i have also made a proposal to improve the text and i would like to invite the members to think about it for a moment. finally, the council. mr president-in-office, i hope you will listen. in your reply to the question, will you state whether or not you will respond to the request of the rapporteur, the committee on budgetary control and this parliament to reply by 1 june 2010 and to provide the documents requested in paragraphs 25 and 26 of the resolution. are you prepared to answer now whether you will go into that or not? this is of particular importance to us in order to know whether the relations between the council and parliament are proper or not.
- i'm the reporter. i would like to thank all the members who have spoken on my report, in particular mr itälä and mr gerbrandy, mrs herczog, mr geier, mr van dalen, mrs schaldemose, mrs de lange and mr vaughan. i think that is all that has been said, except to express my surprise at the way in which this report has been produced. it is the third time that i have been rapporteur on discharge for the european parliament and i see a change in perception. the first and second time criticism was fairly easy in this parliament. the third time was harder. it is clear that there are suddenly longer toes in this parliament and perhaps a lack of self-criticism. i got the blame from some in the press, colleagues who attacked me about it in the press, who said, but yes, with what you write you give some wind in the sails of the eurosceptics. no, ladies and gentlemen, i am a pro-european and critical mep and when i find things which i think can improve this, change this, or when i find things like the voluntary pension fund which has had unthinkable things happen to it in the past, then it is my duty to say so. as pro-european meps we have to say that, because that is how we get the wind out of the sails of those eurosceptics who live on that kind of half-truths, sometimes whole lies. it's up to us to say what's on the table, and i always will. i will never straighten out what is crooked. that's my basic premise.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament must set an example in terms of financial transparency and internal budgetary control. we can't be too hard on ourselves. in a parliament as large as this, with so many members and staff, everything can never be perfect. where people work together, things go wrong. the strictest internal controls cannot prevent that. but we must also recognize that in recent years great efforts have been made to bring order to things. two examples: the new staff regulations. after years of debate, the matter is finally settled. the abuses that have been there are now virtually eradicated. another example is the cost reimbursement. this is another area where action has been taken and clear and correct rules have been introduced. does that solve everything? no, not at all. it is good that internal controls are still in place. but creating the vague impression that things are being covered up, i can't accept that, because it's not true. finally, there is the question of increasing the budget for the future. we must have the courage to explain to the public that there is a lot of extra work to be done with the lisbon treaty. and a higher budget for communication and visitor contact is also justified.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the first part-session in may. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for statements by the council and the commission on the passenger file (pnr).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, the debate on pnr data is very similar to the discussion we have just had on swift. fundamentally, it is about finding a healthy and acceptable balance between safety and the protection of privacy. both are important, of course, and must be carefully weighed. the difficulties in european aviation in recent days have once again demonstrated the essential role that the transport of people and goods plays in the way we are organised as a society today. pretty much everybody gets on a plane sooner or later. it is also impossible that we should be constantly transmitting and updating dozens of data, often quite unconsciously, without having in place the most robust safeguards against abuse, especially since, for example, the us authorities have long been using very different sources of information to assess whether or not a person is a suspect, from the visa application to the check-in on the plane. i myself was able to observe a few weeks ago at the pnr centre in washington that a whole team is working around the clock to reduce an initial rough list of some 5,000 people a day to a small list of a handful of people who are denied access to the territory. it appears that the only way to challenge that entry ban is by administrative action. it is clear that this flow of data must be kept within certain limits, that minimum conditions must be laid down as stated in the resolution, such as restricting its use for the purpose of detecting terrorism and international crime. i agree with colleagues who say that we must define this well, that all this must of course be in line with european data protection standards and that this also applies to transfers to other third countries, where this is the case. i think we also need to clarify a little more what is called sensitive pnr data, which i think is open to interpretation. i therefore support the proposed postponement, so that a new negotiating mandate is put forward as soon as possible, taking account of our questions. i take note of the constructive attitude of the council and the commission and, like my colleagues, i expect more clarity by the summer months.
i thank you, commissioner, for this cooperation, which i hope will be fruitful. the debate is closed. the vote will take place in the first part-session of the may part-session.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on the prohibition of the use of cyanide-based technologies in the mining industry, by jános áder and lászló tőkés, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) (o-0035/2010 - b7-0206/2010).
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of controls on the use of the financial resources of the european union. i was also present with the other members at the informal negotiations with the council. the report which is being requested to be postponed was adopted unanimously by the committee on budgetary control by a majority of 27 votes to 0 with 0 abstentions. we have had informal negotiations with the council on two occasions to reach an agreement. the council has consistently refused to deal with this. there is only one reason for any delay in the vote, and that is if the council declares itself ready to submit all the documents we ask it to submit immediately. the second problem is a legislative one. in accordance with our own rules of procedure and the financial regulation, discharge must be given before 15 may of year 1 + 1. we're talking about the 2008 budget. 1 + 1 is equal to 15 may 2010. the next plenary session, apart from tomorrow's, is not until 17 may, so if we do not vote now, we are in breach of our own financial regulation; i think that would be particularly bad management.
in writing. all initiatives to reduce global warming are welcome. as was the case yesterday in the european parliament, where 1 500 elected representatives from major european cities pledged to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by more than 20% by 2020. the adoption today of the le foll report on the adaptation of european agriculture to climate change is part of this same logic. it should be noted that the agricultural sector is responsible for almost 10% of co2 emissions. agriculture has much to gain from anticipating the adverse effects of climate change: flooded areas, reduced arable land, deforestation, uneven yields. the sustainable aspect of agriculture must therefore be promoted. the promotion of the wise use of fertilizers and pesticides, together with diversification of production and livestock sectors, will ensure farmers greater autonomy and better financial support. clearly, european agriculture has a major role to play in the fight against climate change. there are ways: fixing carbon sinks, supplying renewable energy, new irrigation techniques. the only thing left to do is to translate them into concrete policies and integrate them into the reformed cap in 2013.
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague, mr le foll's report, because i am convinced of the important role that our agriculture will play in the fight against global warming. our agriculture will help the european union meet its emission reduction targets. i welcome the adoption of paragraphs 18 and 20 on respecting and improving soil quality by fixing carbon dioxide and using biomass for heating, which will significantly reduce the negative consequences of climate change. i want to be firmly confident in the future of a more sustainable cap. i am in favour of an environmentally friendly common agricultural policy!
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, let me first say that i hope, as i believe all my colleagues do, and as the president of the commission, that the mechanism we have put in place will work. the fact that i have had my doubts and been critical of the bilateral lending mechanism from the beginning does not mean that i do not hope that the system will work and stop speculation against the euro. because, ladies and gentlemen, little by little, this is speculation against the euro and an attack on the euro, and not just an attack on greece or linked to the situation of public finances in greece. so it's much more serious and broader. i hope that this mechanism, once it has been formalised on 7 may, will be able to take full effect, for the simple reason that we have no other instrument. we have no other instrument! this mechanism must therefore work, and it must be supported! but we must also - and this is my second point - understand that in the near future it will not be possible to use it every time. a structural mechanism will need to be in place as soon as possible. maybe not for the next few months, but certainly for the next few years, because we're going to have more of these situations. and if we want to have a structural mechanism for the future, we must take one thing into account: we must learn from what has happened in the last five months. it took us five months to put a mechanism in place: three months to decide on its principle, then two months to decide on its conditions. why would you do that? because it's an intergovernmental system! i think, once again, that the first lesson to be learned for the future is that we must follow the commission in its community approach. the commission had proposed a european loan, which could have been decided immediately in december or january and which could already have had its effect today and put an end to this speculation against the euro. i hope that on 7 may the first decision, the first lesson to be drawn from what has happened in the last five months, will be to say that - hoping that this will work - from now on the commission will be asked to propose a community loan which can immediately stop speculation against the euro. the whole credibility and liquidity of the european union depends on such a proposal, which is not the case in an intergovernmental system where 16 countries have to say 'yes', 16 parliaments, perhaps, have to say 'yes', etc. and i also hope - but mr rehn has already begun to make proposals - that the second lesson we learn from all this is that we must introduce a number of structural reforms, that is to say a preventive chapter in the stability pact - what mr rehn has proposed - a european monetary fund, a structural mechanism, which can be used immediately and, thirdly, a 2020 strategy which is much more solid than the strategy on paper today. then reform also in relation to rating agencies, even if rating agencies are like weather forecasts: either they are too flexible and you want them to be a little bit harder; when they're too hard, you want them a little bit more flexible. but an initiative at european level is certainly a good idea that needs to be considered. finally, mr president, the spanish presidency calls for financial supervision to be approved very quickly. i am sorry, mr secretary of state, but this is not our fault, it is the council's! it is he who has changed the commission's proposals, is it not? there were proposals from the commission which i even criticised, but which went much further than those from the council. we are the ones who are doing the commission's work again at the moment and i have a good proposal to make to you. if you want financial supervision and proposals to be implemented within a month, then accept immediately, together with the council and ecofin, the amendments which parliament will be proposing in the coming days. it will be done very quickly and financial supervision will be applied. i hope you can tell your ecofin colleagues about this, because in their proposal they have done nothing but find a way of escaping the financial supervision that was being set up by the commission.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. and another one i only got to watch on tv as a kid. ladies and gentlemen, i share the concern of the europeans about what is happening. the savers, the pensioners, they're all wondering: where is this going? and it's a legitimate question and a legitimate concern. a package of 110 billion is a huge package. first we're talking about 35 billion, 60 billion and now 110 billion. that is a huge amount and the austerity package in greece is also huge; we must not forget, however, that greece has lived too long on the dole with a retirement age of 53. who wouldn't want that? and the question is, does greece come out of this? - yes or no? we now see strikes, riots, riots, and so on. so the greek problem, mr president, is a european problem, our problem. the problem in athens - mr cohn-bendit - affects dutch, flemish, german, all of us, and the risk of contagion has remained. i believe that greece should have been excluded from the euro area when the budgetary irregularities were established. we should have made a cut-off point, but we didn't, and now we have to move on and hope that it works. we also need to rewrite the rules of the stability and growth pact. it does not bring stability and, for the time being, no economic growth. i think that there should be stronger supervision, that the european commission should be more courageous, that there should be more supervision of compliance with the rules. that hasn't happened in years. but i think there should also be an exit procedure for a country which can no longer sustain itself in the euro zone. we do have an exit procedure from the european union, but not from the eurozone. i therefore believe that there should be such a possibility, so that a country can introduce its own currency, devalue it and thus run out of money. why do we have an exit procedure in the european union as such, through the lisbon treaty, and not in the eurozone? mr. rehn said to me the last time: "a country leaving the eurozone is in conflict with ever closer union", but greece is now showing exactly where ever closer union is at its limits. at some point we have a weak euro and low growth. ladies and gentlemen, we are becoming prisoners of the theory of the ever closer union and we are holding the taxpayer in europe hostage and that taxpayer is becoming more and more uneasy. don't you forget that.
the agenda calls for the council and commission statement on the europe 2020 dossier new european strategy for growth and jobs.
in writing. we as the european parliament must ensure that the eu's accession to the echr does not reinforce the current tendency for judges of the european court of justice and the european court of human rights to overturn democratically-made decisions of member states, for example in the fields of asylum and immigration. there are many recent examples of this. magistrates, who are not elected and therefore accountable to no one, are increasingly taking the place of the legislative and executive powers of the member states. this is a very bad development and it is adding to the democratic deficit in the european union.
president, president-in-office of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would ask you not to take into account the unimaginably stupid remarks of my predecessor. having said that, i would like to point out that - as the president has already said - the car industry is and remains the most important industry in the european union and is incredibly important for employers, for workers and for employment. i think we should switch as soon as possible, as the commissioner has already said, to that electric car. that is why we must now implement the action plan which you put on the table last week, commissioner. i'll pick three priorities. first, the workers themselves. they must be trained to deal with these new technologies, of course, and we emphasize this in our resolution, so that is an explicit request to you. we want a major effort in the field of training, particularly through the european social fund. secondly, commissioner, president, the vehicles of the future and especially those electric batteries. it has been said here, but it cannot be emphasized enough. we have the ambition as the european union to take the lead on the world stage and at least keep pace with the chinese. then this battery technology must become an absolute priority in the seventh and also in the eighth framework programme for research and development. there are some adjustments to be made. this is where the emphasis should be. third, the charging infrastructure. we must - contrary to what the previous speaker said here - come up with that european standard by the end of next year at the latest, and that is in your plan, otherwise we will be left in a fragmented and fragmented market. commissioner, president, ladies and gentlemen, we have a unique opportunity here to give a strong boost to employment in europe and to avoid being inundated with products, with chinese-made parts. it's not too late to avoid that.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr maystadt, fellow citizens, we need a bank like yours. yes, we need it at a time when private banking, as an industry, has demonstrated that it is working against the public interest, that it is no longer in the business of providing credit to society. we need public credit instruments, and even more so at european level. i think, and we think, that the eib must become increasingly important, if only for that reason. but what role should you play in our eyes? it's a catalyst, of course. a public bank like yours cannot meet all the needs of the market, but you must be a catalyst: a catalyst for the transformation of our societies, for the transformation of our economies, so that they can meet the two critical challenges of this time which are, on the one hand, learning to live within the physical limits of our planet - that is of course the climate issue and the issue of resource depletion - but also meeting this growing challenge of social cohesion, both within the european union and on the planet as a whole, since you have a mission in the field of development which is not negligible. from that perspective, let me just take a number. when you look at the investments you're funding in energy today, in 2009, three quarters went to 19th and 20th century technologies and only one quarter went to renewables. so our challenge to you, mr maystadt, and to the eib, is to reverse this, to ensure that in 2010 and beyond, three quarters and eventually all of your investments go towards this transformation. i think that's how you'll play your catalyst role. mr maystadt, you have often been a first-class man, and we urge you to make the eib a true world-class man.
in writing. reducing cancer cases by 15% by 2020 in the eu is the ambitious objective of the european partnership to fight cancer until 2013. this objective is supported today by the european parliament's vote on the peterle report. a response that is worthy of the challenge, since cancer, according to the world health organization, will become the number one cause of death worldwide by the year 2010, ahead of cardiovascular disease. in 2010 alone, 3 million europeans will develop cancer and nearly 2 million will die from the disease. more needs to be done urgently to systematically screen for the most common cancers: lung, colorectal and breast cancers. the commission's proposal is to set up a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products (email) to monitor the quality of medicinal products and to provide the necessary information to the member states. these measures are aimed at diversifying patient care. may 2010 be the year of the response and may the union not only accompany but also inspire national plans to fight cancer.
i am surprised that the two major groups are now committing to vote on this report. we have had a meeting of coordinators within the committee on budgetary control, which i myself chaired. the council has indeed received documents this morning. i have read those documents very carefully. there is an annex to it which is identical to the annex to the document which we received on 10 march. so basically nothing has changed. i would therefore recommend that we vote against the czarnecki report being placed on the agenda for this partsession. i think that the council is simply, and i say this very clearly, playing tricks on us.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with this excellent report by mrs lulling, the european parliament is striving to reduce even more the differences in treatment between men and women in the field of work, and i welcome this approach. it is a further step on a long road ahead. it seems to me essential to stress the importance of social protection for the caring spouses or recognised life partners of selfemployed workers. it should be borne in mind that in many european countries, caring spouses still do not have a status of their own, their work is not recognised and they do not benefit from independent social security. it is 2010 and women in some member states are still suffering from the non-recognition of their rights and are entirely dependent on the insurance of their spouse. in these times of economic crisis, we cannot leave these caring spouses dependent on a system that could plunge them into poverty overnight, in the event of divorce or separation for example. we cannot therefore accept that it is possible for member states to maintain national provisions restricting access to specific social protection schemes or to a certain level of funding. the caring spouse must be covered for pension, family allowances, health care, incapacity for work and maternity. finally, as negotiations currently stand, it is for the member states to decide whether this social protection should be implemented on a compulsory or voluntary basis. i therefore strongly urge all member states to do their utmost to make this protection compulsory. we must all fight against precariousness, the non-recognition of rights, especially in times of economic crisis.
in writing. with this package of legislative measures, we are taking a quantum leap towards an environmentally friendly society. because buildings are responsible for about 40% of the co2 emissions. we will gradually reduce these emissions to zero over the next few years. this is good for the pockets of all consumers and, of course, good for employment, because investing in green buildings is labour intensive. we must now do everything possible in the short term to speed up the renovation of existing buildings in particular, and we must help private individuals to do so. special attention should be paid to the tenants of social housing. social housing companies should be encouraged, and given a strong push to renovate the older houses in the short term, so that the most vulnerable tenants can enjoy them to the fullest.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- the report by vladimir maňka, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on draft amending budget no 1/2010 of the european union for the financial year 2010, section i - european parliament [2010/2045 (bud)) ] (a7-0158/2010), and- the report by helga trüpel, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the estimated revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2011 [2010/2005 (bud)) ] (a7-0134/2010).
i would like to return to the idea of putting an extra 1500 euros into the secretarial allowance twice a month. it is true that lisbon gives us a lot of extra tasks, and i will certainly not oppose the idea of putting extra staff on the parliamentary committees which are given extra tasks by lisbon, such as the committee on agriculture and the committee on civil liberties. i will not oppose additional staff for the political groups to enable them to provide better support for these tasks, but let us face it, ladies and gentlemen, it is madness and not right to give each individual member of parliament an extra 1500 euros this year and another 1500 euros next year. i myself have worked for ten years on the committee on the environment and i am still working on it. it is a committee with a lot of legislative tasks under the codecision procedure. i have always done so with three assistants and i assume that the colleagues who are now working or will be working in the committee on agriculture and the committee on civil liberties can do so with three assistants. what you are suggesting, mrs gräßle, that those who want to work should be given extra staff and those who do not want to work should not, is pure populism.
thank you, mrs trüpel, but this concludes the joint discussion on the budget. i thank you for your speeches. this discussion is over. the vote on mr maňka's report will take place tomorrow and the vote on mrs trüpel's report will take place at noon today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- the report by rui tavares, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending decision no 573/2007/ec establishing the european refugee fund for the period 2008-2013 as part of the general programme 'solidarity and management of migration flows' and repealing council decision 2004/904/ec (com (2009) 0456 c7-0123/2009 2009/0127 ((cod)) (a7-0125/2010)) - the report by carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1104/2008 on migration from the schengen information system (sis) to the schengen information system (sis) and repealing council regulation (ec) no 2008/129/ec establishing the european refugee fund for the period 2008-2013 and repealing council decision 2004/904/ec (com (2009) 0456 c7-0123/2009 (cod)) (a7-0125)) (com (2009) 0126-01290) - the report by carlos tavares, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the council amending regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 1104/2008 on migration from the schengen information system (sis) to the schengen information system (sis) and the common information system (sis) to the schengen information system (sis) (sis) (sis) (sis) (sis) (sis) (sis) (sis) (sis) (sis) (sis) (sis (sis) (
i cannot give the floor to mr tavares right away because he has had some minor transport problems related to a certain volcano. as soon as he joins us, i'll let him speak.
in the absence of mr tavares, i give the floor to commissioner malmström.
i voted against the tavares report because the introduction of a common resettlement programme is the next step towards a fully uniform european asylum policy. it does not take a psychic to predict that such a uniform policy will lead to a large increase in the number of asylum seekers in the member states. the report is particularly striking in its argument that the introduction of a common resettlement programme would make illegal immigration less attractive. this hypocritical pseudo-argument comes up again and again when texts on immigration or asylum are voted on in this parliament. this is a travesty of justice. illegal immigration in countries like belgium is simply people who go into illegality after their asylum procedure and then are rewarded with a regularization. this is the kind of thing that needs to be tackled and a common resettlement programme is not the answer.
in writing. − the construction sector is a sector with enormous potential for energy saving. the sector is responsible for 40% of energy consumption and 35% of total greenhouse gas emissions. improving the energy efficiency of buildings is the most effective way to reduce energy consumption and emissions. the agreement before us deserves our full support. by 31 december 2020, all new buildings must be nearly energy neutral. all government buildings even two years earlier. minimum energy performance requirements will also apply to the renovation of older buildings. nearly energy neutral buildings are buildings with very high energy performance. the near-zero or very low amount of energy they consume must also be supplied to a very significant extent by renewable energy sources. it is good that the directive pays attention to the provision of financial instruments to make this transition possible. member states should draw up a list of measures to achieve the objectives of this directive by 30 june 2011 at the latest. finally, the commission must evaluate the operation of the directive in good time. that shall be done by 1 january 2017. this directive is an important contribution to the fight against climate change.
in writing. i am particularly pleased with the adoption of the report on the coherence of european policies for development and 'official development assistance plus', which is an excellent report for greater respect for developing countries. i particularly welcome the adoption by a narrow majority of paragraph 70 calling on the commission to systematically include legally binding social and environmental standards in trade agreements negotiated by the european union. it's an important step towards fairer trade. the european union must set an example in this area.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, we are therefore waiting for tomorrow for this directive on organ donation and transplantation, which is essential, legislation that has been awaited for years by some 60 000 patients in europe waiting for a heart, a lung, a liver, a kidney. twelve of them die every day because they wait too long. i would like to stress, as the previous speakers have done, the excellent result we have achieved, which would not have been possible without the collaboration between our rapporteurs, mr perello and mr mikolášik, the fictitious rapporteurs of which i am, and the spanish presidency. i take this opportunity to pay tribute to our doctor matesanz, who was our excellent guide during our visit to madrid. let's not miss the point here. reducing the shortage of organs in europe is the top priority and, of course, at the same time, raising awareness among europeans about organ donation, because the disparities are telling, they are even glaring 34 dead donors per million inhabitants in spain, 27 in my country, belgium, and only one donor in romania , therefore, educating on this issue of donation, allowing potential donors to access information, also breaking down administrative barriers it is essential to establish in the 27 member states a national authority in charge of monitoring the quality and safety of organs, of the collection from the donor to the transplant, and also to take inspiration from this the best examples were the organisation of the alert system in spain, not to mention the ongoing progress, where there is a chain of deaths, up to the pre-transplantation, to name one. our compromise directive, our famous amendment no 106 which sums up all our work, conveys the right message to patients, that of hope, by allowing - and this was sometimes after very thorough discussions - the use of a non-optimal organ in cases of extreme urgency, especially by encouraging the donation of a living person when this is possible, of course. i am talking mainly about kidney or liver donation, which is a necessary and growing donation, which is encouraged by practitioners and specialists and which still represents only 5% of the average donation at the moment. doing more and cooperating better is the raison d'être of the action plan that mr perello has been talking about. one example is my proposal to register online in a national or european donor register, with the idea of putting a mark on the donor's identity card or driver's licence to identify him as such and thus to go faster if necessary. i just want to summarize for a second that we did a great job and we preferred the ethics of hope to the ethics of prohibition.
about two years ago, the european parliament overwhelmingly adopted the adamou report, which for the first time discussed policy action at eu level in the field of organ donation and transplantation. as one of the shadow reporters, i have also had the pleasure of working on that. today i am very pleased to note that the rapporteur, mr mikolášik, and his shadow rapporteurs have done a splendid job and have succeeded, even in this short time, in reaching agreement with the council at first reading. the main points of the report of two years ago have been largely taken up and developed further. i therefore hope that this directive and the action plan will lead to an increase in the number of organ donors in the european union, so that patients will no longer have to be put on waiting lists.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, we are talking about the legal basis. this is very important of course, but behind this legal basis, i would like to highlight the fact that housing, and especially social housing, is obviously not a market like any other or a business activity like any other. social housing is much more than housing for low-income or needy people. there are the issues of social mix, which we have discussed, but there is also the integration of these dwellings and the people who live in them into their neighbourhoods, into their towns, sometimes in the town centres, sometimes in the outskirts. there is a lot of work being done with the tenants, a work of integration, a work of building solidarity, including between the different generations living in these neighbourhoods and in these housing and so, as such, i really think that it must be a different matter. we will also be working on services of general interest during this parliamentary term. it seems to me that it sends a rather bad signal to come here and highlight problems with subsidies or limitations on access to social housing. and as for the income ceiling, which has been mentioned by other colleagues, and which is set at 33 000 euros, i think it poses a problem: there is a very different range of families, single-parent families, elderly people, step-parents, other broken families. how do we calculate their income? all this leads me to ask, as others have done, for more flexibility and subsidiarity if we want real social projects in these neighbourhoods.
madam president, commissioner, i only wish to have this discussion because i am concerned, as are others here. several regions of europe, including my own, are currently considering reforms to their social housing policies in order to avoid ghettoization and the grouping of disadvantaged social groups in the same buildings and neighbourhoods. your decision goes against this policy of social rebalancing and necessary social mixing. commissioner, it is not right that the commission should prevent member states from pursuing policies of social diversity. while social services of general interest relating to housing could be reserved for certain categories of people, there should be room for manoeuvre to make them available to other income groups in order to improve social diversity in our neighbourhoods. in any event, the balance between these two aspects is to be determined by or with the member states and regions, not by the commission.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i too, commissioner, believe that we must stop the sorcerer apprentices in industry. the industrialized world is now more thirsty for oil than ever before. they are exploiting everything that is possible, and deeper and deeper, which, of course, increases the risk of accidents. the industries have in recent times given priority to exploration and extraction, to the detriment of safety and the environment; 800,000 litres of crude oil have been pouring into the gulf of mexico every day for nearly a month, and the environmental and economic damage is going to be catastrophic. i see a huge gap between the colossal sums spent on deeper and deeper mining and the totally inadequate resources devoted to downstream prevention and risk anticipation. so i too, like my colleagues, ask for several things. i believe that first of all there should be an audit of all oil platforms to check their state of obsolescence, their level of safety and their compliance with standards, and that there should also, of course, be an inspection of the platforms, even if this is the responsibility of the member states, and that the commission should be in charge of the inspection itself. i also believe that the most fragile ecosystems must be protected once and for all. in this respect, i think that, in addition to the initiative you have taken, which i welcome, to try to see how we could cope with such circumstances if such an accident were to occur on our coasts, europe must take initiatives to protect the most fragile ecosystems once and for all. i'm thinking of alaska, for example. we need an international convention on the same model as that which exists for the protection of antarctic resources and europe could be at the forefront of this kind of work and convention. finally, if it were still necessary, this is a very good reason to invest more quickly and more in renewable energy. the volcano - i won't mention its name, because it's unpronounceable - has given us a signal on the question of air transport; in the same way, this terrible accident gives us another one on the issue of oil extraction. it is time we realised that the madness of the race to extract all-round and at any cost is behind us.
like other speakers, i am deeply shocked by the fact that it is possible for hundreds of thousands of litres of crude oil to be pumped into the sea for weeks on end without our being able to stop it. also because of the enormous damage that this causes and the fact that the company in question, bp, constantly minimizes this. we are being forced to face facts and we have not even been able to assess all the long-term consequences. it is therefore essential that we take the necessary measures, not at national but at european level, to make such a thing impossible in the future. this must be done both in terms of procedures and in terms of technical aspects by imposing the necessary safety systems. of course, that comes at a cost, but the cost of doing nothing is of course much higher. we have in the past led the world in imposing double walls on oil tankers. i think we should take the lead and set a good example in this area too.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to begin by thanking you for your reply. i think that some questions have not yet been fully answered and i would therefore like to have some further clarification on a number of points. the absence of mr brian simpson shows that the issue is still very much alive, that the consequences of such an eruption are unpredictable, that they could have a profound effect on the mobility of our citizens, but also on the economy if it continues for a long time. it also shows, i think, that we cannot really rule out the possibility that something similar could happen in a few weeks' time, for example, in the middle of the busy summer season, and that airspace would have to be closed. so we must not only continue to work on structural measures that can make our aviation and our transport system in general more efficient - i will come back to that in a moment - but we must also continue to work on better crisis management and management. you spoke earlier of the creation of such a coordinating cell. this week will be more clear on that. could you perhaps tell us a little more about what you see as the role of such a coordinating cell? what should be the first tasks of such a coordination cell? the events of april have made it abundantly clear that there is a lack of coordination between the parties involved, such as airports, airlines, travel agencies, that there is no mechanism to inform the parties concerned in such cases of what to do, and that stranded travellers, for example, are not really aware of their rights. i therefore believe that we need a european road map, which will enable the right decisions to be taken and the right contacts to be established very quickly. the same applies to the repatriation of travellers. if we are talking about tens of thousands of people, we must have a system in place somewhere to facilitate that. passenger rights are a very important element. europe has done a great deal of work in this area, and that is a positive thing. but you also know that there are loopholes in the legislation. we are talking about airlines in third countries which are not really covered by our legislation, so i am in favour of integrating these kinds of rights into our air transport agreements with third countries. i also think we should monitor the application of this kind of legislation by the member states. we have just learned this week that the italian authorities have fined the airline ryanair. that is good news, but what is happening in the other member states? can we get an evaluation of that? there are, of course, the numerous structural measures, and i do not want to dwell on them too long. the single european sky is under construction, but so are the railways. the railways have not proved to be an alternative. there are many reasons for this, and it has to do with other systems, including the fact that we do not even have an integrated ticketing system. i think that is also very important, commissioner. so there is a lot of work to be done, but you will have our support.
madam president, since this new volcanic eruption brings us back to the problems we have already experienced, i should like to emphasize, as others have done, the interoperability and the railway reservation system, in addition to the crisis management and coordination system that has been developed. land transport, and rail in particular, must be able to replace air transport more easily when it fails; it's not just volcanoes to put it in default, it can indeed be blocked in other occasions. but beyond that, and more structurally, i would like to ask you the question of the risk coverage by the sector itself in this kind of crisis, and i insist, by the sector itself. i believe that state aid, whenever it is granted (or whenever there is a problem), will very soon prove to be untenable at budgetary level and will lead to a rather unacceptable discrimination between airlines, between operators in the air transport sector who would submit identical applications, and finally between those who would receive any such aid and those who would be excluded. given the importance of airlines, i think we should move towards prudential rules for them, as we do in the banking sector, rules which would require them to have some form of compulsory insurance. these insurances would enable them to cover such risks by sharing the cost of the cover, without requiring the states to provide them free of charge, especially since airlines already enjoy historic exemptions from taxation on kerosene and airline tickets. finally, it will also be necessary to ensure that these airlines properly compensate their passengers, but without passing the bill on to the taxpayers.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i believe that neither nationalist rhetoric nor marxist rhetoric will bring us the solutions we need to this crisis we are going through. (applause) what we are experiencing today, mr president, is not, in my view, a monetary crisis of the union, not even a crisis of our single currency, but rather a crisis of the union's governance. that's what we're living right now. it is a crisis, i would even say, of the obsession of the member states who think that with their intergovernmental method they can solve europe's problems, whereas a monetary area, mr president, must be governed by a single method, by the community method, on the basis of the european interest and not by a syndicate of national interests which, by its nature, is the european council and the council of the european union. i have three messages to convey this morning in this debate. the first message, mr. garrido, is to the council. perhaps the spanish presidency could be asked to ask the members of the council to show a little discretion in dealing with the euro crisis, because every time a solution is found to help the euro, it takes one or the other head of government to come forward, to speak out and, in fact, to sabotage the solution that has been found. so i think the first thing we should ask the council is to be a little more discreet and let the european commission and the european central bank work on finding solutions. the second message is for the commission. i believe, mr rehn, that you took courageous decisions last wednesday which are in the right direction, but the commission must go further. so for the moment we have a working group. this council working group will meet to advance solutions towards the end of october or towards the end of the year. in my opinion, it's far too late. it is up to the commission, which has the right of initiative, to put forward an ambitious overall package in the coming weeks and months. here's what needs to be done. we should not wait for a council working party to tell us what needs to be done, it is up to the commission to take the initiative. it is up to the commission to draw up an overall package which it will put on the table of the council and parliament, and which will, in my view, comprise four elements. first, to strengthen the stability pact. we need sanctions. i for my part support - i hope everyone can do so - mr rehn's idea that in this package, before the national parliaments approve their budgets, there should also be a 'screening' which is entrusted to the european commission. this is not a question of subsidiarity or lack of subsidiarity. it is a question of loyalty to the stability pact and the euro. we cannot say that we are members of the stability pact and the euro area and then say that we have nothing to do with the euro and that this is a purely national matter. secondly, i believe that a compelling 2020 strategy must also be included in this package. at the moment, mr garrido, what is on the council's table is not convincing. you're going to close in june? but what will you conclude in june on strategy 2020? the same thing as the failed lisbon strategy? again the open method of coordination? well, if you are serious, we must now give the commission all the instruments it needs to be able to actually lead this 2020 strategy, this economic strategy which must lead us out of the crisis. the third thing we must do is certainly to create a european monetary fund to replace the stability mechanism that has been created, because this stability mechanism - mr rehn, you yourself said it - is not going to be enough. this mechanism is again an intergovernmental mechanism which has been concocted within ecofin and which requires unanimity. for each loan, all member states must give their approval. this is a system which cannot work in the long term and therefore a european monetary fund is needed which will be managed by the european commission and, if necessary, by the european central bank. but it must not be left to decisions which all the euro area member states should take. and finally, we need a european bond market. that is what we expect from the commission, mr rehn. it takes ambition, courage to put on the negotiating table, both in the council and in parliament, an ambitious package containing these four points. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yes, we need responsible public spending. yes, we need to balance our budgets. this requires responsible management of expenditure and we have talked enough about this for the moment. that means increased peer-to-peer supervision, yes, of course. but no, ladies and gentlemen of the council - and especially ladies and gentlemen - it is an imposture to believe that we will meet the challenges of the moment exclusively by cutting spending, because that is what will most certainly plunge europe into recession, that is what will most certainly destroy the social fabric, that social cohesion which is part of the identity of the european union. and so, if we want to restore the balance of public finances - there is no other solution - and also be able to invest - because it is not just about reducing deficits, it is about investing in our future - we will have to find new revenue sources. this means bringing in the financial sector, imposing a financial transaction tax, but also a tax on banks and it is not a matter of choosing one or the other; this means putting those who have benefited most from their situation pension - think of the energy sector - this means stopping giving gifts, as in all the tax reforms that have been done, to the richest in society or to companies that take advantage of tax niches and really tackling tax evasion. this means that we must tackle another taboo, ladies and gentlemen: not the tax taboo, but the taboo of sovereignty which you, ladies and gentlemen of the council - and i am sorry to say, with the support of the epp - defend to the hilt. rather than tax sovereignty and failure than really tackling the root of the problem. and finally, on financial supervision, i would like to encourage ... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, the president-in-office just asked whether there was an exit strategy from this crisis, and i would say yes, there is: it is called fiscal conservatism. the structural problem of ours has been that public overspending went on for too long. the public sector was out of control for many years. even in good times the german government of mr schröder went through the 3% ceiling, and greece, of course, broke all the records, because the greek political class is utterly unable to manage money. we had the stability pact. what did mr prodi say about the stability pact in 2002? you know: you were the head of mr liikanen’s cabinet. he said the stability pact was stupid. so we had to change it. this was the guardian of the treaties. we did change it, and we put it on the slippery slope – and we see the results today. the eu will be faced with a track of fiscal conservatism for many years to come, and that is going to be very important. what we need is innovation, more free markets and more entrepreneurial skills, mr schulz. mr president-in-office (from spain): do we need taxation? no, it makes things even worse. it pushes the eu into stagnation, and you will be robin hood in reverse. i understand the anger of the people – the people with pensions, the people with savings. i understand the german taxpayers. they know that they will have to pay, but german taxpayers cannot always pay. i find it a bit pretentious of mr verhofstadt (if he is still there) to tell mrs merkel to shut up talking about the euro. this was said by a former government leader who messed up his own country. so what is he trying to prove?
in writing. i welcome the adoption, by a "scrap" vote (370 votes against 369 when we needed it), of this resolution which protects consumers against the use of thrombin as a "meat glue", as a food additive used to bind pieces of meat together so that they become one meat product. its use clearly risks misleading the consumer as to the quality of the product he is buying. i therefore had to react, together with my european colleagues, strongly against the commission's intention to allow the agri-food industry to use a new food additive which ultimately has no other purpose than to make new profits, while at the same time disregarding the protection of consumers' rights, including the right to receive reliable information about the food they choose to consume.
mr. koumoutsakos, you are a man of many talents. i have just heard you speak of the greek government which has not taken the trouble to consult you or the various parties and civil society to take action. i would like to say, however, that the present greek government is not responsible for this situation. he is the victim of speculators, whom i shall denounce in a few moments when i have the floor. but i also have to point out the responsibility of the previous government which has been falsifying the figures for several years, and your party was in power for at least two legislatures. i therefore believe that the responsibility lies more with greece than with your party. do you have an answer to that question, mr. koumoutsakos?
mr president, strategy 2020 should incorporate reflections on the economic crisis and propose new governance rather than attempts to patch up the current failing system. let us first put an end to misconceptions, particularly about greece. this is not a greek crisis. greece and its people are now victims of a vulture economic and financial system, a system which has seen the g20 countries give a few trillion dollars in a few days to save the banks, but which leaves greece to die for several months. we're not counting the international summits anymore, we were going to see what we were going to see. we were finally going to regulate finance and europe is still thinking and talking, but the vultures are still there. what do we hear everywhere these days? that we need to reassure the market. but who's the market? calming down the speculators like they're demigods to whom one must make offerings to beg them to spare us. how long will the people of europe continue to suffer this cynicism? how long will we live in the illusion of a market that gives the rich the best but impoverishes the people? we cannot accept that the terrorism of the financial markets brings whole countries to their knees. when someone counterfeits money, he is taking a big risk because he is touching an element of a nation's sovereignty, its currency. on the other hand, when a trader speculates on a country's debt, he risks nothing. when are we going to see real punishment for white-collar criminals in the financial sector? we must ban speculators who come to play on the backs of the people, put an end to these casino banks who gamble with the lives and future of citizens, and demand that europe seriously controls the financial markets rather than attacking public services. i think we have been mocked enough. we can meet every friday in extraordinary summits, unlock billions, but if we do not tackle the causes of evil, one of these fridays we will end up declaring europe bankrupt.
madam president, commissioner, the 2020 strategy is global and covers many subjects, as the debate this afternoon shows. i would simply like to stress two particular aspects. firstly, on the social dimension of this strategy, i fully support mrs berès' call on the commission, particularly with regard to the establishment of quantified poverty reduction targets for this strategy, which i regard as a red line. the principle of a minimum income in europe, in order to achieve these objectives, seems to me to be self-evident and must be put into practice. secondly, the coherence of the budget of the european union with this strategy. there is no sign at present from the council or the commission of a willingness to review our multiannual financial framework for the current period, which has shown its limits. however, if we do not adapt it to the new challenges of the strategy, we are collectively at great risk. neither the european union budget - which is too limited - nor national public budgets will be able to launch the necessary investments to support the various flagship initiatives of the 2020 strategy.
i voted against the hoang ngoc report, and the main reason for that is the frivolity with which it once again advocates even more mass immigration to europe. how unworldly can this european parliament become? our big cities are already groaning under the problem of mass and uncontrolled immigration. it is time for a cost-benefit analysis of immigration from outside the european union to be carried out at european level. the governments of several member states which have already faced the question have refused to calculate the cost of immigration and seem to find it undesirable that any knowledge exists on the subject. how is that possible? we must also take into account the problems facing the third world, which is experiencing a brain drain, draining the vital forces of that society to europe, which only makes the problems there worse, with more immigration as a result.
in writing. the adoption of this report by the liberal and conservative majority in the european parliament is simply unacceptable and that is why, along with our rapporteur liem hoang ngoc, the socialist and democratic group voted against it. how can we make our fellow citizens pay for a crisis for which the banks and speculators are largely responsible? the measures advocated by the epp and alde, namely the consolidation of public finances as soon as possible, the reduction of public expenditure, particularly on pensions and health systems, and the unconditional application of the stability and growth pact will have disastrous and lasting consequences for our societies! we are going straight into the wall if we do not introduce, as my colleague mr liem hoang ngoc proposes, a financial transaction tax and if we do not launch viable stimulus measures. let us not bring the citizens of europe to their knees!
author. - madam president, the red shirt demonstrations were suppressed in blood. without wanting to add fuel to the fire, because an emergency in the european parliament requires that we pacify a crisis and seek solutions to it, rather than inflaming the passions further, i would simply say this. first, that every citizen has a legitimate right to free and, as they say, fair elections. this is an unquestionable right and this right must be granted to all thais. this option was proposed in his time by minister vejjajiva, but was rejected by the red shirts. we have to go back. secondly, i condemn the use of live ammunition against the demonstrators and the brutal repression of the last few days, which has, according to official sources, resulted in at least 12 deaths, including an italian journalist, and many injuries. it's time to put an end to this violence that's sweeping the country. in doing so, i am not endorsing one side or the other, but i am calling on the thai government to favour a negotiated solution, to refrain from restricting individual freedoms and freedom of expression by emergency legislation, which would only increase tensions, and i am calling on it above all to consider returning to the polls. the current unrest threatens to split the country in two. there would be in the north-east, which is a rural area and laotian culture, an almost insurrectionary opposition in the center, in bangkok and in the south, bastions of the democratic party with, at that time, the possible emergence of quasi-terrorist movements, attacking what would be called the bureaucracy and the elites who are the bastions of power. we must absolutely return to elections, to negotiation, to the cessation of violence, but to the maintenance of freedoms. these are obviously very simple words, and perhaps very naive in relation to the violence of today, and this parliamentary resolution is deliberately withheld to avoid any outbreak in thailand and to leave room for dialogue, but we cannot dispense with any appeal for democracy.
author. - madam president, the starting point of this resolution is the quasi-mezzo voce dissolution of the party of aung san suu kyi, the sakharov prize winner who has been under house arrest for years. with the dissolution of his party, the national league for democracy, which won the last elections, it is a whole section of the opposition that the military junta wants to eliminate before the elections next october. but to perfect what will be less a democratic vote than a real electoral farce, political prisoners and monks were also excluded from the vote. the junta continues its extortions, the big multinationals continue to profit from their contract with the junta and the commission has cut the budgets for refugees who have fled to the thai border. we have a collection of examples, alas, of countries or regions where the international community is powerless to restore democracy and the rule of law. burma is one of them, with its procession of resistance fighters and martyrs, of whom aung san suu kyi is the most famous icon. but is it too much to ask the european union - i would almost say out of decency - not to cut its budget for refugees at the thai-burmese border, and to start immediately funding cross-border aid and mainly medical aid? is it not urgent that the high representative catherine ashton and the member states support the recommendations of the un special rapporteur on burma, namely the establishment of a commission of inquiry into war crimes and crimes against humanity, which could be included in a resolution at the un general assembly this year? let us make burma a lesson in our ability to promote democracy without the use of bombs and tanks.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank our rapporteur for her excellent work. his synthetic approach, which avoids getting lost in too many details, is quite adequate. it would be inappropriate to get lost in too many details in a negotiation for a mandate. this mandate will therefore have the support of my group. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the report makes many references to the need for europe to act in the face of the economic and financial crisis. it is regrettable, however, that no mention is made of the ecological crisis, which may have far more serious repercussions in the long term. the response to the ecological crisis and climate change should be a much more inspiring part of europe's action. of course, such a response should be reflected in the community budget and, while i welcome the increase in the life+ budget, it is obviously not enough and it will not do the job. what we need is a new european green deal, a green deal with an approach to agricultural policy, with less emphasis on arable land and more on the quality of our food and the sustainability of farms, a research policy that does not disappear taxpayer money into a financial abyss, like the iter reactor, for example, but that emphasizes renewable energy, sustainable transport, innovation in green technologies, structural funds that should be allocated according to criteria to combat climate change and concentration in road infrastructure is not really an innovative policy in this area and, finally, a fisheries policy that does not contribute to the overexploitation of the seas. i shall not, however, get lost in examples of what i would like. i shall nevertheless support the report because it seems to me to be a good mandate for the trilogue, and for the rest, on the draft budget, we shall come back to it later, but i do not think the means are adequate.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank first the rapporteur, because mr marinescu and his shadow rapporteurs have done very positive and important work. now we are at the end of the second reading, and the commission would like to reaffirm once again – and in the strongest possible terms – the political and industrial importance of the subject on which parliament has to decide. notwithstanding the adverse economic cycle we are in, there are some clear lessons to be learned: how to revitalise the rail freight sector, because rail freight transport is primarily international, and an indisputable factor in its success is the availability of good-quality rail infrastructure at the european level. that is what the customers ask for. good-quality rail infrastructure across borders is an essential condition for the competitiveness of many rail freight market segments, and it is primordial if rail wants to compete with other modes of transport. this also explains why the commission proposed, at the end of 2008, the development of a european rail network for competitive freight based on freight corridors. these corridors link the main industrial regions of europe, where the most substantive flow of goods originates and terminates along the main international axes. the legislative proposal to which your attention is drawn today contains decisive elements which favour this development of high-quality rail infrastructure at international level. these include cooperation between rail infrastructure managers, reliability of infrastructure capacities allocated to the corridors, good coordination between rail infrastructure management and goods terminal management, and non-discriminatory access to these corridors for all operators. the council’s position at first reading maintains the basic principle put forward in the commission’s original proposal but waters down some of the elements. the tran committee has reintroduced, at second reading, important amendments which strengthen the regulation, and they bring back the original commission proposal. the commission considers that the compromise obtained during the negotiation is balanced and that the general objectives of the commission’s proposals are duly taken into account. we are very grateful to parliament in that it has succeeded in reinforcing the role of the one-stop shop, which had been reduced to a mere mail box in the common position of the council. i know, rapporteur, that some people want to go back to the common position. i invite you and parliament to resist these attempts, because they would weaken the compromise that you have been able to reach. for the railway undertakings and for other applicants which wish to have access to the corridor infrastructure, the one-stop shop is a considerable simplification of the present, very burdensome procedure, because the one-stop shop will be able to take decisions itself instead of referring matters to the individual infrastructure managers, which cover only national sections of each corridor. but, of course, the one-stop shop is limited to catalogue or reserve capacity: that is, the capacity which the infrastructure managers themselves have already decided to set aside for freight trains. corridor managers have also several options as to the way in which the one-stop shop should be established. let me emphasise that the one-stop shop is a joint body set up or designated by the management board of each corridor: its function is that of a coordination tool. it may be a technical body within the corridor management structure, or one of the infrastructure managers concerned, or the bodies already established by rail net europe. so it is not a supranational body, but it is a tool which speeds up and simplifies, in a very transparent and non-discriminatory manner, the path allocation process. the infrastructure managers have the responsibility to predefine capacity. the one-stop shop just sells paths to applicants on the basis of decisions already taken by infrastructure managers on the predefined infrastructure capacity. some have gone as far as saying that, with this regulation, the commission wants to give priority to freight trains over passenger trains, thus threatening the efficient provision of rail passenger services, in particular at regional and local level. now let me be very frank: this is improper, it is not the right reading of the proposal, and it does not correspond at all to the texts that everybody can read in article 14, in article 15. priority rules for trains are not something the commission will ever want to decide from brussels. freight traffic is systemically discriminated against today because passenger traffic always has priority, even in cases of disturbance. what the text says is that the infrastructure managers themselves must take the responsibility to define transparent, consistent, non-discriminatory rules for both types of traffic so that freight trains which are on time do not have to be systematically delayed in case of disturbance. this is, i believe, a very good compromise, and if you parliamentarians adopt it and if it is also then correctly implemented, the commission is convinced that it will contribute to the revitalisation of rail freight and will help the european economy to start again after the present crisis.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it is a pity that what has been said and clarified here by the commission does not have the same resonance in the press as what certain companies are saying about this regulation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is, in effect, driving societies into an exercise they do not like to do, as the past has shown. it's the practice of simply working together between countries. we have just been talking about liberalization: we are signing a liberalization agreement with the countries, and 21 countries manage to do nothing in rail transport. we are now talking about freight transport. normally, you wouldn't have to make such a regulation. we want to help them become more efficient. study after study says that we need to move more traffic from the road to the rail, and every time we have an initiative to think european in rail transport, there is always some society or some country that says: no, i'm better off and you should accept my rules. i would like to thank the rapporteur and also the shadow rapporteurs for this work, which they have done together with the commission and the council. we are in favour of this cooperation. we stress that passenger transport remains a priority as defined in 2001. we want transparent rules in advance so that in emergency situations it does not matter what is decided. all this is intended to give the passenger transport beneficiary and the infrastructure managers in the country themselves the confidence to participate. no, you don't want this! why would you do that? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the railway won't work tomorrow! i hope therefore that we shall have a large majority to vote on this compromise, which we have all found together, here tomorrow, and that the 40 signatures, most of which come from my group, will not find a majority. anyway, thank you for your work.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their good work. i think the result is obvious and important. the freight transport sector has lost market share to road transport almost systematically over the last 20 years and has also been hit hard by the economic crisis. it is therefore necessary to take measures to re-energize rail transport. the present regulation is, of course, only one means of making rail freight more competitive. we will also have to take a whole series of other measures, for example on technical interoperability and on the financing of infrastructure. we will also have to optimise the functioning of the market, promote intermodal transport, etc. but it is clear that the development of international freight corridors along which freight trains can travel smoothly across europe is an important step in the right direction. the one-stop shop system, which some colleagues are opposed to, is just one way of making the use of the corridors easier, simpler and more transparent for potential customers. it is not a duplication of work compared to what national infrastructure managers already do today. on the contrary, it is complementary and improves coordination. i also agree with the honourable members who have stressed that this regulation will not be to the detriment of passenger trains. however, it is necessary to establish clear priority criteria in order to ensure that freight and passenger transport can be used in the most optimal way.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to highlight a success in the fight against poverty in this european year of poverty. the council of ministers for employment and social affairs set and approved the target of reducing poverty by 20 million people at risk of poverty. this objective was defined as one of the main objectives of the belgian deputy prime minister laurette http://www.laurette-onkelinx.be, in charge of social affairs, and i myself supported this ambition from the european parliament in our debates. in the council, along with other european ministers, mrs onkelinx has not slackened in her efforts to obtain it. the belgian government's motivation to carry out the future presidency and to fulfil the objectives of its social programme is intact despite our present institutional situation. i am convinced that the future belgian presidency of the council will be active and committed to the achievement of these social objectives, on the basis of our electoral results.
i support the commissioner. a self-employed person is someone who manages his own working hours and that should remain the case. there is a difference between self-employed and employed, and that is also correct. it has nothing to do with road safety, because the driving and rest periods are identical for both the selfemployed and the employed. they are checked with the tachograph and that is what the tachograph is for, not anything else. the employee and the selfemployed are not checked for what is happening outside in the field of road safety. the second point, which i find very difficult to accept in the proposals of those who say that the selfemployed should be included in this: how the hell are you gonna check that? how do you walk into a self-employed person's house and say, "when, where and how much did you work?" we are thus arriving at a kind of control system which is unattainable and which is then said afterwards that it cannot be done. we should not make such legislation, we should not include the selfemployed in the directive on employees.
i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the right of selfemployment. it is useful to recall that since march last year all selfemployed drivers have been covered. that is the situation today, and that is the starting point which the rapporteur should have taken into account. it is therefore not a matter of precedent, as the commissioner has claimed. it should have been possible to deal with this in a more pragmatic way, in particular by including self-employed people in the scope, but at the same time taking into account the specific nature of self-employed drivers and keeping bureaucratic burdens to an absolute minimum. i had - and you know this, madam rapporteur for the committee on transport - drawn up a number of proposals, such as the digital tachograph, which would not only measure driving and rest times, but also loading and unloading, supplemented by a kind of uncontrolled fixed-term work for a number of other tasks, including administrative work, but also cleaning and suchlike. you know very well that, for example, customer contacts are out of control anyway and outside working hours. i therefore regret that neither the commission nor the rapporteur has taken this into account in any way. i do not think your proposal to give member states the option of including selfemployed people in the scope of application or not is a good one. the aim should be to establish common rules of the game at european level which are equivalent, so that everyone is covered by the same rules.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am a little angry to speak before you because i am going to focus on amendment no 101, which concerns the country of origin or place of provenance. on behalf of my group i tabled an amendment to split the vote to make a clear distinction between the two, since one is not the same as the other. in short, the country of origin is the country of final processing of the food, whereas the place of origin is clearly the place where the ingredient comes from, particularly fruit and vegetables, and mr dalli has mentioned this. the very serious thing is that parliament's services have rejected this split vote amendment and are unable to give me the rule which provides for rejecting this amendment. and i'm told we're even based on custom. so this is very serious because this decision, which seems to me to be arbitrary, will obviously affect the content of the decision. i ask you, madam president, to be my interpreter to your services to denounce this arbitrariness and to ensure that within 24 hours the services will come to their senses and accept this well-founded amendment.
mr president, i would like to say two things about this regulation. it is essential that we confirm our vote tomorrow on the compulsory indication of the geographical origin of foodstuffs, as is already the case for many products: fish, fruit, vegetables, but also unprocessed beef, since the mad cow crisis. it is also essential that we ensure that this european regulation protects the investments of the many smes that are innovating and creating jobs, and that we therefore get rid of all the measures that will not only be ineffective, such as the nutritional references in article 14, but will, of course, unnecessarily cost entrepreneurs time and money. i would like to conclude very quickly with a question to our commissioner, mr dalli. i would like to ask the commission's opinion on amendment no 205 which mrs grossetête has mentioned at length, which seeks to add a reference to animals which have been subjected to ritual slaughter, which - and this has been said - would unnecessarily stigmatise these products and would be particularly counterproductive for this sector. i would like to know the commission's opinion on this very important point.
mr president, i am perhaps the only ignorant person in this house, but i do not know how to take a decision. a zero appears, a number one, a cross... honestly, i don't know how to vote yes, no or abstention. it would be good to explain it properly.
mr president, if i may speak again, it is because of the question put by mr schulz and your very clear answer, which is contrary to what the parliament's services are telling me. parliament's services have just told me that i can vote yes or abstain, but not no. so it's not clear at all. i apologize for the way i'm speaking, but let's try to be consistent. i thank you for giving me a clear answer, mr president.
mr president, article 86 of the martin report states that the representative of the non-attached members in the conference of presidents is not to be chosen by the non-attached members themselves, but by the president of parliament. the reason is that there would be no consensus among the non-enrolled. i wonder what the problem is. in this parliament itself, when the president of parliament is elected, there is no consensus, and that is why we are holding an election in a democratic way. the representative of the non-enrolled must be representative and therefore it is best that an election be organised. we are now in a situation where the european parliament is putting itself on display as a sort of mickey mouse parliament where the president of parliament himself will decide who is representative of some of his opponents. then i ask myself on what basis? on the basis of representativeness? on the basis of personal sympathy or friendship for this or that of the non-enrolled? what criteria will the president use to determine the representative of the non-attached? i would have liked to have had a statement from the president on this before this vote, but unfortunately we were not entitled to that.
in writing. i welcome the vote on the cashman report on progress towards the mdgs as part of the mid-term review to prepare for the un high level meeting in september 2010. you should have voted for him! with just five years to go until the 2015 deadline for achieving the millennium development goals (mdgs), it offers a unique opportunity for the international community to redouble its efforts to achieve these goals. the situation is critical and urgent. it is necessary to renew efforts to erase the debts of the least developed countries and to commit ourselves to a policy of reducing the burden of debt on developing countries. i also supported the introduction of enhanced monitoring measures to monitor compliance with the commitment to devote 0.7% of gni to official development assistance (oda) by 2015. the financing of the mdgs must start at the national level and developing countries must raise and allocate their own funds to achieve them, but the donor community must deliver on its promise to significantly strengthen its oda. the september meeting must be the fulfillment of the promises!"
in writing. − it is becoming clear that more effort is needed if the world is to meet the mdgs. i therefore support the resolution on the union's commitment to more efficient and coherent policy making, in order to halve poverty and hunger, provide full primary education, eliminate gender inequality and improve the health of many. i want europe to take its responsibility, starting with the 0.7% standard. a more coherent development policy is also needed. the agricultural subsidies we give to european farmers prevent farmers in developing countries from getting a good price for their products. ending world poverty starts with fair trade. i also want a tax on foreign exchange and derivatives transactions and an end to tax havens, tax evasion and illegal capital flows within the g20 and un framework. it is high time that there was more transparency and that automatically generated profits and taxes paid were disclosed. i have long advocated a country-by-country reporting system so that developing countries are able to keep their own resources for their own development.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i will not ask about swift, rest assured, we will talk about it later, but yesterday mrs merkel and mr sarkozy held their summit. they decided on an approach to economic governance in the union and not in the euro area. personally, i do not think that this is a very relevant decision, because the question is not to oppose the euro area to the european union. we need economic governance in the european union and we need economic governance in the euro area, in both. and even more intensely in the eurozone than in the european union since we have the single currency. the question i would like to ask the president is: what do you think? do you agree with us that economic governance is as necessary in the euro area as it is in the european union? secondly, we believe that the commission should be the guiding force for this economic governance. it is impossible for a council which meets four times a year to ensure economic governance in europe with all the problems we are facing. it is now up to the commission to take the driver's seat. and i also ask the commission's position on this matter.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the first test will naturally come on thursday when we are also deciding on europe 2020. i hope, mr president of the commission, that in europe 2020 it will not be the council that will monitor and manage this. the commission must take care of this, because i have never seen heads of state and government punishing and criticizing each other. this is not the case between peers, and that is why i believe that the commission must defend its position in 2020 and in the working party that mr van rompuy is currently chairing.
i will be extremely brief; this was the answer that i wanted to hear. i think all environmental organisations, and a lot of economic actors, who do believe that this is a very good directive, will be very happy to hear that from you.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the report by mr romeva i rueda, which focuses on an aspect of the crisis that has been too much neglected, namely the impact on women. at the very beginning of this crisis, we were among the first in the european parliament to sound the alarm about the harmful consequences that the crisis could have on women if adequate measures were not taken. we also stressed that this crisis was an opportunity to make the european union a more gender-sensitive society if the right policies and measures were adopted. it seems that our advice has not been taken into account, since the different plans of austerity do not provide a differentiated response to the crisis. the crisis first affected manufacturing and construction, which are predominantly male sectors of activity. since then, most sectors have been affected and the first victims are at the bottom of the socio-economic pyramid, where women are the majority. it is therefore urgent to take account of this problem and to combine the various plans of austerity decided by the european union and its countries with the feminine one. i don't want us to go back 30 years. it is the very independence of women that is at stake.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first of all thank ms pack for presenting this oral question on behalf of the committee on culture and education. i am fully aware of the political importance of this issue. i would recall that the commission has now published the results of the independent study on sports agents. the study provides a comprehensive analysis of the issue at stake. we have learned, for instance, that around 6 000 agents are active across the member states in all disciplines. however, 95% of them are active in only four sports: athletics, basketball, football and rugby. and within this group, football clearly predominates. the study also tells us that only a limited number of member states regulate agents through a specific law. most countries simply rely on general provisions of either labour law or contract law. some international sports federations have also adopted regulations on agents, notably in the disciplines that i just mentioned: athletics, basketball, football and rugby. although the existing public and private regulations may conflict with each other and create legal uncertainty, the findings of the study show that few obstacles exist to the free provision of agents’ activities across the eu. however, the study highlights a number of dubious practices related to agents’ activities: for instance the payment of secret commissions, the exploitation of young players, etc. we must address such problems to preserve the integrity and fairness of sports competitions. the sports movement has been trying to tackle these problems for some time. this is why a number of governing bodies have adopted measures to regulate the activities of agents. the rules put in place by sports bodies may have an advantage: sporting sanctions are sometimes the best way to deter unscrupulous actors in the market, be they agents, clubs or players. but sporting authorities do not have the power to investigate and punish acts which all member states consider to be crimes: corruption, money laundering, tax evasion and illegal immigration. the sports movement is looking for assistance from the european institutions to tackle the challenges posed by agents. the commission has an important role to play. we can help to develop the common principles and standards that might serve as a minimum set of rules for countries and sports federations across europe. we are now assessing which type of action at eu level would be most appropriate. we have several options in mind but, to finally decide what action we should take, we will certainly need further deliberations and consultations.
i would like to refer first of all to the world cup in south africa, which shows every day how beautiful sport can be, how beautiful sport is for a country, a continent and, above all, for society. it is therefore all the more important that we either protect sport from the criminal activities to which mrs pack has already referred, or that we try to tackle these activities with force. the study you have just referred to, the results of which are now known, literally says the following: "sport is increasingly being influenced by organized crime". i'm sorry, but it is. it is about human trafficking, including trafficking of young children, and also about all kinds of financial malpractices. it is clear that the sports federations themselves do not have the power and the competence to deal effectively with these abuses. that is why a european initiative is necessary. we already have various legislative instruments in the treaty, in directives, to take action. i refer to a few proposals for action. firstly, we could work with strict criteria that apply to all sports brokers throughout the union. the best way to achieve this is through licensing systems for clubs and through a mandatory register for players' agents. the sports federations can impose this, but we as the european union can certainly play a driving role. the european union can, for example, coordinate the various national control bodies. a second measure we could take is absolute transparency of the money flows that circulate in the world of the players' brokers, because that is the greatest source of all evil today. we have no visibility into these dark money flows, and that means they can continue to use elite sports for money laundering on the one hand, for bribery on the other. a third proposal - and mrs pack has already spoken about it - concerns a ban on fees for players' agents who want to make money from the transfer of underage players. we should definitely work on that. we have enough instruments to put pressure on the professional sports federations to push this through and to take initiatives ourselves. this parliament already called on the commission in 2007 by a very large majority to take the initiative in combating the waste in the world of sports betting. the study makes a number of concrete suggestions. they're good, but they're clearly not enough. we are pleased to hear that you are indeed planning to switch to higher gear. the industry, the european association of player brokers, is also calling for this. we have had a lot of contact with them and they themselves are insisting that the european union should take action to filter out the rotten apples. i suggest that we answer their question in the interests of sport and also in the interests of the extremely important social role of sport.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would say that today is yet another debate on the preparation of this council and on economic governance. we have to be honest with each other. there is unanimity here, and this was shown yesterday with the presentation of two resolutions on economic governance: how to do it, and on the 2020 strategy: how to do it, how to build on the community method. there is a consensus here. but let us be honest, that is not the view of the council and the states at the moment. the council's conclusions will again be disappointing when compared with what is needed in reality and with the resolutions we have voted. the problem is today. there is a will here in this chamber, and i believe also in the people of europe, to make a community policy to get out of this crisis, to make economic governance, but we do not find this political will in the council and among the member states. that's the reality. there is a gap between what we say and what is thought in the council. this is the reality of today. joseph daul spoke of the deaf, i did not use that word, the deaf in the council: how will they finally understand that to get out of this crisis, we must change the method. let us look at the current proposals for europe 2020, for example, what do we have? the open method of coordination which continues. it hasn't worked for ten years and we're just going to continue the same thing, economic governance. what is at stake is not the commission's economic governance, it is not the community method, it is they, the heads of state and government, who are going to meet four times a year to govern europe economically. it's not possible! it is a community body that must do this, it is the commissioners who must do this. it cannot be the heads of state or government who meet four times a year to say that we are now going to manage the european continent economically in this globalised world. the question is therefore, mr president, what is to be done. first, there is what you can do. you will be present at the beginning of the council and i hope you will recall the two resolutions which parliament will normally adopt, i hope, almost unanimously. secondly, we must see how we can increase the pressure on the council. a lot of files are locked at the moment. on financial supervision, there is a huge contradiction between the approach of parliament and that of the council, which does not want to hear parliament's remarks. on the foreign affairs department - i'm not going to open that file - it's exactly the same. on the broad economic policy guidelines, the gope, it's exactly the same. mr president-in-office of the council, a large number of dossiers are currently blocked because of a problem between parliament, which wants to continue to apply the community method, and the council, which does not want to go in that direction. your task now is to open the game. i expect from this european council conclusions other than the conventional conclusions, the four or five pages, which have been prepared. for the first time, i am hearing that the council is prepared to give the commission the power to go ahead with real economic governance; i don't want to hear the "is it going to be 16 or 27?" that must be twenty-seven, of course, and also sixteen. and at sixteen it will be different from at twenty-seven, because we have a monetary union and this monetary union also requires an economic union which we have not created and which we will not create if it is the states that continue to monopolize this governance. that is the commission's role. the time has come now, with this crisis around greece and around the euro, to understand that and to decide that. the sovereignty of the member states must be transferred to the commission and the european institutions. that is the decision we expect from you, the council, in the coming days. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, as i said last time, the consolidation of our public finances will require new revenue. three points on the financial transaction tax and the bank tax. this is not an alternative, both are necessary because their objectives are different. the aim, together with the financial transaction tax, is to feed the public treasury and finance our obligations in terms of development aid. on the other hand, the tax on banks will allow us to build up rescue funds. i say to the council: stop procrastinating! i say to the commission too: go to toronto, not saying 'let's study this together dear friends', go there saying 'we will do it together if possible, but we will do it alone if necessary anyway!' on taxation of companies, we need a firm agenda for the definition of the consolidated base, so that we can then set up convergence of rates. finally, i would remind you that tax evasion and avoidance costs us between 200 and 300 billion a year. the recovery of at least half of these amounts is an urgent obligation and on this point i say to the council and the commission that the time is no longer for studies and excuses but for action. secondly, the regulation of the financial markets. gentlemen of the council, you have abused our patience. you will have to explain yourself to the public and explain how your attitude, which is to defend narrow national interests, really corresponds to the defence of the common interest. it is obviously unprovable and it is therefore time that you stopped opposing the position taken by this parliament. the third point is the eu 2020 strategy. mr barroso, i must have heard you use the word 'growth' 47 times in your speech. you're a reasonable, rational man. i am waiting for you to show me the link between growth and job creation, between growth and increased social cohesion and reduced poverty, between growth and rational use of the planet's resources. what the last 20 years have shown is that if there is a link, it is a negative link. so you are wrong to put growth at the centre of the eu 2020 strategy. for us, the goals to be pursued are to transform our infrastructure to make it compatible with the limits of our planet and to tackle social cohesion, but as an objective in itself. raising 80 million europeans out of poverty is what will create sustainable, sustainable, quality jobs in europe.
in writing. − road transport legislation on safety and driving times should be the same for all possible stakeholders, whether drivers are employed or self-employed. the basic directive 2002/15/ec (which entered into force in march 2005 for drivers employed as self-employed persons) also provides that the rules apply to self-employed persons from march 2009. this backsliding is not good governance and is capitulation to the market. tired drivers are dangerous drivers, whether self-employed or not. people need to be protected from overtime. it puts your own safety and that of others at risk. self-employed people may be under economic pressure more than hired drivers. if we exclude the selfemployed, we are creating unfair competition with the transport companies with their drivers who are obliged to respect the driving and resting times, and this cannot be the intention. the current directive proves that if selfemployed people are not required to work the same hours, drivers in that selfemployed status are forced to work the same hours just to get around them. that is how you create the illusion of independence, and i want to fight that too. we need to have a uniform law that sets the same rules for everyone. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to clarify and harmonise the many disparate labelling of food products and to ensure that their scientific value is not misleading. i have therefore supported the amendments which seek greater legibility, including the requirement to respect a minimum font size; greater transparency on the origin of food, allowing for the origin of processed meat sold in another country; • better information on the quality of foodstuffs offered for consumption - for example, we must be able to know whether what we eat has been prepared from frozen or chilled components - the maintenance of nutritional profiles containing information on the identity, composition, quantities, properties, durability, storage and use conditions of products offered for consumption. finally, all these regulations should not penalise small producers and micro-enterprises. their handicraft products must be exempt. smes in the agricultural sector must be able to obtain specific aid.
in writing. − the revision of food labelling legislation is a step in the right direction, despite some minor points. the regulation will ensure that consumers are better informed about food in the future. i regret that the amendment on the traffic light system did not pass the industrial lobby's test. an indication in green, orange or red would give consumers a simple and clear picture of the (healthy) content of the products. the new rules are strongly opposed by the eu, which has proposed that food producers must now disclose the amount of energy, salt, sugar, fat and saturated fat in their products. the origin of meat, fish and milk products must be clearly indicated on the packaging. consumers can now find out for themselves where the animals were born, bred and slaughtered. they can choose local and regional products and avoid unnecessary food kilometres. milk that has been stored for more than 7 days will no longer be labelled as fresh milk. trans fats and flavor enhancers are being addressed. if a product is sweetened, this must be indicated on the packaging. all these decisions are progress for the consumer who will now be well informed and able to make an informed choice.
in writing. at the moment, the contents of the carton are omitted: where does the beef used in lasagna come from? where do tomatoes come from in soup? the consumer doesn't know that! this lack of information prevents him from making a wise choice, especially with regard to the carbon footprint of food. i can therefore only welcome the fact that the european parliament has followed my position by imposing mandatory indication of the country of origin for, amongst others, single ingredient products and meat, poultry and fish used as ingredients in processed products. it is a further step in the right direction to bring our consumers reliable and quality information.
in writing. europe's diversity is its charm, but it is a permanent weakness, especially when it comes to socioeconomic decisions. and i regret the slow reaction of the european leaders! as early as 1989, the member states rejected the delors report, which sought to establish, alongside the stability and growth pact, a pact for the coordination of economic policies. as delors says, it is this "construction vice" that is being paid for today. it is important to preserve what we have and, above all, the euro, which is the most spectacular element of the european construction and the most comprehensible to all. we must move towards a genuine european fiscal federation. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. we need a complete reform of the regulatory framework, we need to demand that the economy be managed in a collective way and we need to make the financial sector bear the costs of its behaviour. finally, we can welcome the new european financial stabilisation mechanism to help countries in financial difficulty.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i am not addressing you today, nor you, mrs ashton, forgive me. i would like to address those who are listening to us today, the marmara flotilla activists in this chamber. we have failed you, we have betrayed you. until the last moment, until the night of the attack - and i keep the traces on my mobile phone - you called us, you hoped that the media, the governments, europe would protect you. it was a waste. and you were left alone, unarmed, facing soldiers with orders to fire, in full view of the entire international community. and you ask us today for justice, but an independent international justice. you don't trust an israeli justice system, even if it's supervised by foreign observers, because your friends were killed, because israel immediately removed all evidence of the attack, destroyed the films, the photos, confiscated the computers, the cameras, the cameras, cleared all traces to produce, three days later, its own version of the attack, photographic montages to support it; because israel has treated you as terrorists, treated you as terrorists, imprisoned and sometimes beaten, and you have not understood anything in this horror scenario. so you want justice that you can believe in, and you want today, because that's why some of you have died, that the siege of gaza be lifted, immediately and unconditionally. i give you my solemn promise, we will not let you down again. mrs. ashton, don't answer me, answer them. they look at us as they always will, with their eyes of wonder and disbelief, those who paid with their lives for their humanitarian commitment. the joint resolution of parliament condemns the attack, calls for an international inquiry and the lifting of the blockade, but parliament will demand justice tomorrow. if we forget, hundreds of survivors of the marmara flotilla will come to remind us. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the fact that this israeli operation on the flotilla is a disaster, a military disaster, a media disaster, a political disaster, and above all a human disaster, is a fact, a fact that no one denies and none of us here deny. they don't deny it in israel either. saying the blockade needs to be revisited is also self-evident. but that our resolution, this conviction in seventeen points here - seventeen points minus one because the prosecutors of our parliament agreed to mention gilad shalit - that this conviction, therefore, refrains from any questioning of the motives of some of the passengers of peace is more than astonishing. this is really shocking. everyone knows there were more than just pacifists on board and that's not slander, mr. howitt, that's just facts. everyone has seen the images of the boat leaving where everyone is calling for jihad and everyone should see this report from bavarian public television, methodically debunking the links between ihh, the organiser of this cruise, and the islamist and anti-semitic movements in turkey. that's what you should have said. this is what we had to denounce, because half the truth is not the truth.
mr president, mrs ashton, allow me to add one last point. millions of european citizens, and above all non-european citizens, expect from us, the european parliament, and from you, the european commission, a reaction commensurate with their indignation. hundreds of thousands of european citizens expect more than more or less firm statements from the european authorities. the hundreds of victims of the may 31 shipwreck can no longer accept impunity or the violation of international law. several of them are here in the gallery. they are far from all hamas activists. they are young people, young women, for those who are here, committed, united, european, for peace. it is also for their sake and for the dignity of our institution that the resolution we shall be voting on tomorrow must be implemented. we must also combat the radicalisation of millions of citizens outside europe or in europe who, in the absence of a reaction from the european union, will end up thinking that radicalisation is the only solution, which is obviously not the case. i would therefore ask you, mrs ashton, to ensure that what has happened this time leads to the implementation of this resolution.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the european union is a source of great hope in the countries around us, because it continues to embody human rights. but too often this hope is disappointed because little concrete results come to back up our generous speeches. now, we know that human rights are not won by force, and that it is only over time, through coherent policies based on civil societies and emerging democratic forces, that we can change human rights in the world, especially when political regimes are corrupt or dictatorial. europe has a wonderful instrument, namely the election observation instrument within the framework of the ihop. but what we observers of the elections see is that in too many cases the elections are declared to be largely flawed or fraudulent, without necessarily leading to a coordinated and audible response from the council or european politicians. and finally, when politicians commit fraud, they do it after the election period and they repress the population quite harshly. it is a paradox that in time we end up legitimising, out of weariness, regimes which are corrupt, which is actually a perverse effect of our instruments. so, mrs ashton, do you intend - and we support this instrument, i repeat - to have a response strategy that is a little bit more audible when we actually face these cases. i did not want to give any examples, but there are, unfortunately, many.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like first to thank parliament for the opportunity to present the outcome of the negotiations with the united states on the second stage air services agreement. earlier this year, on 25 march, the european commission initialled the second stage agreement – an agreement of which parliament has been very supportive. parliament played a hugely constructive role throughout these negotiations, for which the commission is extremely grateful. let me go through the key elements of the second stage agreement. this agreement builds on the first stage agreement, in effect since 30 march 2008, by creating the prospects for additional investment and market access opportunities, as well as further strengthening the framework of cooperation on regulatory issues such as the environment, social protection, competition and security. on the environment, the draft second stage agreement establishes a robust framework for tackling the local and global environmental challenges affecting europe and the us through the pursuit of joint projects addressing practical solutions such as cleaner in-flight and air traffic management technologies and cooperation in international forums such as the international civil aviation organisation. both sides also formally recognise the importance of avoiding duplication and enhancing the compatibility of their respective market-based measures. i would mention here in particular the emission trading scheme. europe is also set to benefit from progress made in the area of security, where the agreement seeks to reduce the security burden on airports through the promotion of assessment activities and timely consultation on future requirements. in the area of competition, the agreement enhances cooperation between the responsible authorities as well as the transparency and predictability of regulatory decisions on both sides of the atlantic. for the first time in such an aviation agreement, the need to balance market access opportunities with strong social protection has been recognised through a commitment to implementing the provisions of the agreement in a way which does not undermine labour rights. on the commercial front, europe has gained further rights, including immediate access to the ‘fly america’ programme (with the exception of defence), which up to now restricted us government-funded air transport to us carriers only. but perhaps the most important element of the draft agreement is the commitment to move forward. as part of the agreement, europe and the united states have committed to the goal of removing the remaining market barriers that face the industry, including those that limit airlines’ access to global capital. progress towards this goal will be reviewed annually and will involve working together through the joint committee. together with a high-level review if progress is too slow, we have a targeted approach for advancing in this area. both sides have an incentive to make progress in this area through the guarantee of additional rights to operate passenger seventh freedom rights and develop stakes in third-country carriers. to summarise, the agreement advances cooperation across a wide range of regulatory matters, including areas such as security, consumer protection, the role of the joint committee and the environment. it delivers immediate and future additional commercial opportunities, establishes a roadmap for change in the vital area of investment reform and, importantly, secures the benefits of the existing first stage agreement that would have been lost if we had not reached this second stage agreement. some of them would have been lost. a study commissioned to examine the benefit of the first and second stage agreements has estimated that it could be worth up to eur 12 billion in economic benefits and up to 80 000 new jobs – both very valuable in the current economic climate. for these reasons, i hope that parliament will support this important agreement.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. the air transport agreement with the united states is of course very important. that is why parliament and our committee have been very active in the discussions and visits. 60% of all air traffic in the world is between america and europe. that's the importance of it. we also hope that both partners will then see the need for a genuine bilateral agreement and will be encouraged in the future to improve what is now or has been. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we had some open points. one was the equity stake. we were hoping there would be some progress. but there's been very little progress, quite frankly, other than the fact that people are saying they want to talk about it. secondly, we wanted to see progress in the mutual interest of the technical inspection bodies. we didn't see her like that. as far as market access is concerned, we dare not speak of cabotage because it seems to be almost a taboo word in the united states. but i 'd look at it this way: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that's not quite the case. i am therefore of the opinion that, apart from one point which should not be underestimated, namely the social aspect, not much progress has been made in concrete terms, but there is a great deal of will to make progress in the future. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. firstly, such agreements require a legal basis. we must also respect data protection legislation, particularly when it comes to the exchange of data and information, and under no circumstances should parliament be presented with a fait accompli. secondly, we should emphasize the bilateral nature of these agreements, i.e. not unilateral agreements but genuine bilateral agreements. thirdly, it is also important that we set a date for the resumption of negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when we agreed to the first phase of the aviation agreement in 2007, it was for two important reasons. firstly, the concept of the european airline was accepted, which meant that from the entry into force of the agreement any european airline could fly from any point in europe to any point in the united states. this was in itself a major innovation and was not the case for all our companies before. secondly, there has been the creation of a joint committee, which gives us a structure for regular consultation with a view to harmonizing the regulatory framework, which is of course necessary in order to achieve a truly unified transatlantic aviation market in time. but the agreement remained unbalanced because american companies have more access to the european internal market than vice versa through historical concessions, and that access to each other's capital structure is also to the disadvantage of our companies in the european union. that is why the deadline clause, to reach a more comprehensive agreement before the end of this year, was so important in keeping the pressure on the boiler and forcing the americans to make concessions. the result is a new step in the right direction, but it largely preserves the imbalances that already existed, and in particular there has been insufficient progress in terms of market access for european companies in the united states and potential european ownership and control of american companies. so despite some positive elements, which my colleague, mathieu grosch, has also mentioned in the field of the environment, for example, in the social field, we will only be able to approve this agreement if there is more than a commitment to take new steps. we must develop some sort of mechanism to make further progress in the coming years, including on market access, including passenger rights, so that we all have good rights at a high level, and that in the meantime we do not make any new concessions to our american friends. finally, i would ask the commission to keep us fully informed of the work of the joint committee, to send us all the reports and invitations, as well as the other interested parties.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. if we are to work towards this, we must of course take a whole series of measures. it is not just about market operation, but also about technical interoperability, strengthening the european railway agency and a solution for financing new infrastructure, as well as the maintenance of existing infrastructure. clearly, efficient market functioning is also part of the story. the first railway package was intended to contribute to this. we approved that in 2001. it should have been transposed by march 2003, and now, seven years later, we find that 22 countries are not actually in compliance and have not transposed sufficiently. that is unacceptable, of course, and the commission has waited too long to react. three things are very important. we need an independent regulatory body with sufficient resources to impose and enforce good market practice. secondly, there is of course the independence of the infrastructure manager - as has already been mentioned - which can create a level playing field for all players. thirdly, the level of infrastructure charges must also be examined more closely. in this respect, we should also look at and compare the cost structure in other modes of transport in order to create a level playing field across all modes. but that's a whole other story. as regards further liberalisation, we must now focus on freight transport and the correct application of the first railway package. i would like to be very careful about national passenger transport, which many people would like to see liberalized. i would particularly like to stress the following: in any case, good public services at a high level, extensive, efficient and comfortable rail transport for all people, rather than mere liberalisation as an end in itself.
in writing. the saga of the bluefin tuna is continuing. fortunately, is it right to say, since despite the firm position of the 27 member states of the european union and the united states, in favour of a ban on the marketing of this species, the request for a ban was blocked in march by japan, a country consuming more than 80%, and its allies. yet the facts are there: 70 percent of the world's fisheries are in danger of extinction, and we are literally plundering the oceans. that is why the message from the european parliament today is important: we need more control and better quality. the powers of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icct) must be strengthened, as it has failed over the past 20 years to ensure sustainable fishing and to preserve stocks. the traceability of fish, from the time of their capture to the time of export, must also be improved. finally, we should welcome the remarks made by commissioner maria damanaki, who made it clear during the debate that the european commission would use all its legal and diplomatic arsenal to save bluefin tuna. the time is critical: stocks have fallen by more than 85% since the beginning of industrial fishing.
author. - mr president, on the eve of the celebrations of the fiftieth anniversary of the independence of the congo, it seemed important to us that the european parliament should take a position on the murder of mr chebeya. mr. chebeya is a human rights activist. he's the president of the ngo "the voice of the voiceless". he's a famous congolese defender. he was found dead in his car in the suburbs of kinshasa on 2 june and his driver, mr fidèle bazana, has also not been located or found. my questions are: why was he killed? i believe, as the resolution stresses, that an independent, credible, serious and transparent commission of inquiry must be set up to establish the truth about the death of mr chebeya bahizire and to shed light on the disappearance of his driver. as we know, the general deterioration of the situation of human rights defenders in the republic of congo is particularly worrying. cases involving a number of human rights defenders, including mr pascal kabungulu kibembi in 2005, and several journalists are still pending. the investigations carried out by the congolese military authorities were marked by serious irregularities. i therefore consider it essential that those responsible for the murders be identified and brought to justice, in accordance with congolese law and international human rights provisions, in order to put an end to impunity. punishing those responsible for the murders of human rights defenders and journalists is a key element of democracy. we have mentioned this again this morning in mrs hautala's report. as a signatory to the cotonou agreement, which explicitly refers to respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law, the resolution therefore calls on the eu and the drc to pay particular attention to these issues when assessing the agreement. i therefore believe that parliament should urge the congolese authorities to fully comply with the 1998 un general assembly declaration on human rights defenders and to implement the 2009 un universal periodic review recommendations, which are measures to protect the rights of human rights defenders. this is the message i will take to kinshasa for the celebrations on 30 june. i think it's important to let people know.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me first say that it goes without saying that the member states of the union have to play an important role, a vital role, in the economic strategy of the union and of the euro zone in the coming years. but the most important question today is another one, namely who will carry out the control and who will do the sanctioning if some of the member states are not fulfilling the conditions – that is the key question. will the control be in the hands of the member states themselves, of the council? will the member states be sanctioning themselves or will it be an independent institution, a communautaire european union institution? that is today’s key question. and i have to tell you that i do not think that there is anyone here in this house who believes that the member states should sanction themselves. they did not do so in the past; why should they do it in the future? let me give your some examples. the lisbon strategy failed because there was no system of an independent institution controlling the member states on applying this lisbon strategy. and the same applies to the growth and stability pact. what happens in the growth and stability pact? when it is the small countries that are not fulfilling the conditions then we experience a greek tragedy. and when it is the large countries that are not fulfilling the conditions, as germany and france did, they simply adapt the stability and growth pact. so if the member states cannot do the job, it is an independent communautaire institution which has to do it, we are convinced of that. we have two resolutions on this that have been adopted, mostly unanimously, and a few days ago the president of the european central bank, mr trichet, gave exactly the same analysis here in this parliament. well, should it be the european parliament, the commission, the president of the european central bank? we think that it is for the european central bank, or the european commission – trichet even proposed another institution, though i do not think that we need new institutions for that – but anyway under the communautaire method the european institutions have to fulfil that role. that does not mean that the member states do not play a role; no, they have to implement this whole strategy in daily politics, in the daily strategies that they develop in their own countries and that is what we need. we need that in the growth and stability pact. we need it in the euro 2020 strategy and we need it also in the new competitiveness strategy that we are to develop in the next month. my second point is about financial supervision. what is the problem here? the problem is that the european leaders will go to the g20 and they will not be able to announce an agreement on financial supervision. the reason is very simple, the reason lies with the ministers of finance, of the european union, of ecofin who in december went back on the good proposals of the commission based on the de larosière report. that is the problem. it is not here that the message has to be given; we have to give the message to the ministers of finance. they have to go back on their proposals and go in the direction of the commission. the proposals of the commission and de larosière are based on a european supervisory authority for the banks. that is the main proposal. and what the ministers of finance did, in the ecofin in december of last year, was simply a little bit of coordination between national supervisors – national supervisors which did not work in the financial crisis. there was not one national supervisor which raised the alarm with the politicians at the moment of the financial crisis and now they are explaining that it is a good system, that they have simply to coordinate themselves. so what we need is that from the council, from the european council, pressure should now be put on the member states themselves to go in the direction of a european supervisory authority based on the proposals of de larosière.
mr president, mr president of the european council, it is often said that necessity makes the law. in the face of the crisis, an obvious, what can i say, a necessity that has become inescapable, that of being innovative, of being creative. i am therefore pleased with the step taken by the european council, a step which i hope will eventually be a giant step towards genuine economic governance, because, let us not be mistaken, the mere coordination of economic policies will not be enough. we are not going to be able to achieve a genuine budgetary federation, not because we are forced by circumstances, but because we have decided to do so ourselves. i am glad that the council has taken this decision. the strengthening of the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact is a good thing, but there is no real budgetary discipline without sanctions for those who do not comply with it. these sanctions have been strengthened, but not yet specified, which is a pity. if not, i will tell you how satisfied i am, among other things, with the guidelines adopted, such as the famous competitiveness scoreboard, because that is what it is all about: reconnecting with competitiveness and sustainable growth for all. we should also welcome the proposal to introduce a bank tax, the acceptance of a tax on financial transactions and the acceleration of the reform of financial regulations. mr president of the european council, a few months or even a few weeks ago all these decisions and guidelines seemed unrealistic, illusory, even hypothetical. you are right, it is a profound cultural change, on the scale of the european policy of small steps. however, it is now imperative that the member states implement these guidelines in very concrete terms in october. it will now be up to the council whether the step taken is a historic giant step or simply a wishful thinking, something we will all bitterly regret and, in particular, something that a majority of citizens will have to endure on a daily basis.
mr president, i wanted to address mr van rompuy, who has just left. i would like to point out to him, and to everyone else, that if he is calling for us not to be in the caricature, i would also like to suggest that he not be in it himself, because we are, without doubt, some of us here, his best allies in all that is expected in terms of strategy for coordination and budgetary control. i wanted to reiterate here - and i am addressing you, mr barroso - a proposal that was raised in the committee on budgets: the proposal to launch, even beyond the task force, a convention, a new convention on budgetary aspects, so that we can work, at a time when all our member states will be subject to budgetary rules, on how not only to control but also to allocate roles between european and national expenditure. i think there is a huge task to be undertaken, even beyond the need for institutions and bodies to monitor, coordinate and sanction.
president, vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i should like first of all to thank the rapporteurs, mr cancian and mrs ayala sender, for the good work they have done, and at the same time to deplore the fact that the council has apparently not been able to show sufficient flexibility with regard to mr cancian's report to get a good deal out of it. it is important for us to establish a set of rules at european level for passenger rights for all modes of transport - as many colleagues have already said. we've been doing a lot of work in the last few years on aviation and railroads. i think we should learn from this and - and that is another debate - we should make an assessment fairly quickly and look together at how we can also close some gaps here and there. we now turn to passengers travelling by sea and inland waterways, and also to bus passengers. we have to use a little bit of the same methodology, keep the same red thread. first of all, our aim is to protect the most vulnerable, people who have limited mobility or who have difficulty walking. we must ensure that they have the same rights to move and to go on holiday, in other words to remain fully mobile. secondly, i think it is essential that passengers are informed about timetables, about delays and about their rights. it must be done in a high-quality way for all modes. thirdly, it is clear that we must also record things for when things go wrong. here again we try to be consistent in guaranteeing assistance, providing meals, refreshments, alternative travel options and accommodation, if needed. of course, there is still some discussion on the scope of the directive, for example. i think that we really need a good definition of regional transport in relation to the cancian report, in order to avoid back doors and ensure that there is a proper regulation.
the president, brian simpson, has already said that parliament has always considered passenger rights important and has fought for them, very often against the council. passenger rights are very difficult to manage at the same time. we have seen in the past few months that aviation is not so easy. i think we have a good deal for passengers on ships. we do have a problem with the bus. there are many small businesses in this sector and there is the problem of public transport, because that is where a very large proportion of the passengers are. it is important that we establish a clear european framework and that framework must be sustainable for small businesses. parliament is very much aware of this. i would like to share with the rapporteur my findings on the railway at the time, for which i was rapporteur. we found basic rights for all railroad greed. i think we should do the same for bus passengers. the council does not like that, but it must be possible. that debate needs to be held. we have enforced these basic rights by being reasonable in the negotiations, with a possible transitional period. i'm not against it. it is important that the european parliament should also say to public transport: there's a pedestal, a level you don't go below, even as a public transport company. because there are passengers there too, and they should have rights too. the fact that a public transport company can operate as a subsidiary does not mean that it should not grant a basic right. i think that is the line we should follow in mediation. the council does not like to hear that, but we as a parliament must continue to defend it, because it is an important element if we want to encourage public transport. this is very important in the context of what we are doing for the environment and for good mobility.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if i may, i will make a brief comment, because two colleagues from the epp group did not speak. but it's up to you. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this case has again shown that progress is being made in one area and that it is becoming relatively difficult in another area as regards the power omnibuses. we understand that this issue may also have become complicated because, for example, the term regional transport is interpreted in one country in one way and in another country in another way. i personally live in a border area with four countries, and these terms are in fact so different from country to country that it is not always easy to treat passenger rights from one country to another in the same terms. but the aim should be common to all, and the aim is that in all areas of transport, the passenger who will use the transport there, when he buys a ticket, when he wants to rely on a trip being planned somewhere, can count on his rights being safeguarded. we have always paid special attention to the disabled in this parliament and in other areas, and we have recently gained some experience in this parliament which the council should take better account of. it is not just limited mobility that is at issue, but other forms of disability that we must take into account and would have, which do not really involve any additional costs, but where there are already problems to be solved in the form of information and more.
i am also very pleased that we can finally adopt a european framework for its. it was, as the honourable members have said, a difficult decision and it is partly thanks to the unremitting efforts of our rapporteur, mrs jensen, that we are finally able to present this balanced result to parliament after very hard negotiations. thank you very much for that. the importance of this initiative cannot be underestimated when we see that the problems of congestion and environmental pollution are only increasing. there is a clear need for innovative solutions. but why is this approach so important at european level now? i think that the its can only be fully exploited if the limited but fragmented implementation we have in many member states is redirected towards a coordinated implementation at european level. but, ladies and gentlemen, this is only the first step, albeit a very important one. we will have to monitor closely both the commission and the member states in the coming years as regards the implementation of the priority actions. we have indeed lost about half a year on the timetable proposed by the commission as a result of the debate on the implementation of delegated acts. but in general i think we will have to ensure that the services provided are sufficiently user-friendly for all groups. in this context, we are therefore very pleased that specific provisions have been included for vulnerable road users, as attention to this will lead to an improvement in quality for all users. thank you for your attention.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, if a container is transported by lorry from gdansk to antwerp, that container remains within the eu and the goods do not have to be cleared or cleared. if you take the same container by ship from gdansk to antwerp, you have to clear it first and then clear it again, because it is as if the container had left the eu. that is a disadvantage for coastal shipping and i think the commission is right to want to eliminate that disadvantage. i think that coastal shipping can take on a larger share of the freight transport in the european union and that we should encourage it. the agreement we have now reached is also part of that and i would like to thank the people in the council who have worked on it, the people in the commission and also the colleagues here in parliament. i think we have a good deal. the general outline of that agreement, the principle of administrative simplification and harmonization, has been accepted. the data are always exchanged electronically and all those involved can consult or input the data through what we call a single window. that means that these computer systems can talk to each other. everything only needs to be entered once, and that's a huge improvement. there will also be an exemption for vessels calling only on eu ports. what we have not achieved is that on the basis of the cargo a regulation, an exemption, can also be given for that cargo if a ship has called at a port in a third country. the commission is now going to examine how we can solve this problem, i.e. on the basis of the cargo. the commission is also going to look at how we can link the maritime system to the inland waterway system so that you can have a complete, very sustainable chain of water transport. we do not agree - and i regret this - on the use of one language of communication in shipping, in this case english, which we had proposed. there were a lot of colleagues here who had reservations about that. the council was totally unconcerned. the maximum we could get out of it is that there should be a recital in the directive stating that the member states should look for a common means of communication for written and oral communication. this could lead to the use of a single language, and i hope that will eventually happen. we have also failed to get the directive to include something about piloting and the fact that captains of coastal vessels who regularly call at ports can also be exempted from piloting. the commission and the council have now made a statement that they will look into this. i hope that we will move towards a european framework for this and that this will also happen as soon as possible. we had to compromise on the date. the council wanted to delay for far too long. the council felt that we wanted to go too early. we have june 1, 2015. i would have liked to have done so earlier, but i think that, thanks to the fact that we now have an agreement at first reading, we can still buy some time. i think that all in all, mr president, we are making a step forward. i think that is very important for the internal transport market. it is also a link in the sustainability of the transport sector in europe and there are many links to be made - and the commission knows that. however, encouraging coastal shipping is an important link. i have always noticed that the council is so difficult about this. the council only looks at the costs, never wants to talk about what benefits a measure might bring. the council always wants everything to be introduced later, never wants to see the importance of speeding up the creation of a single european market. the council's reluctance, its negative reflex towards a genuine european transport policy, continues to surprise me and actually annoy me. i am glad that parliament has always insisted, and this time too, on european solutions, and i hope that we can do so as soon as possible. so i am happy with the agreement we have and i would ask you, colleagues, to support it.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have contributed. i also want to thank them for their kind words. in his last speech the commissioner pointed to another wound, namely customs. one of the advantages of the report we have now drawn up is that customs systems will not be completely separated from maritime systems. they need to be able to talk to each other, and i think that's essential. so, commissioner, thank you, but there are a number of tasks for you in this directive that we are asking you to do. the pilot projects, for example, because behind them is the role played by ports as nodes in the whole thing. the ports are the nodes between coastal shipping and the rest of the hinterland. we are still waiting for some proposals from the commission on port policy and it is important that we finally get them, because without good ports there is of course little use in good coastal shipping. secondly, behind the inland waterway are the good hinterland links with other modes. i think we should not forget that. i'm sorry, of course, that we couldn't say, okay, english is going to be the only language we use. i understand very well the sensitivities in different member states. i come from a country where debates about language and the use of language are almost a daily occurrence. i take great pride in my language and i always use it where i can use it, especially here in this tower of babel. but language in this case is not an emotional thing, it's a technical thing. we need to be able to tell the difference between the two. i hope, commissioner, that we can make progress on this point on the basis of the considerations we have in the directive. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. behind that language, people hide too. you have said it or one of your colleagues has said it. the use of language is important, the people who use that language are of enormous importance for the development of a good maritime sector that is safe, that is efficient and that can therefore also do a lot of good for the environment. i wish you, commissioner, much courage, strength and speed in putting into practice all the things we are asking for in article 11a of this directive.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this own-initiative report has given rise to a great deal of interesting discussion and exchange with colleagues and also to a relatively large number of amendments - 376 in number - which we have been able to summarise in some 34 compromises. if we have succeeded in doing so, it is thanks to the good cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs, the authors of these amendments, but it is also because we in the committee on transport and tourism felt that we wanted to send a clear signal to the council and the commission with this document to set the guidelines and that this should also be an interesting basis for the commission to draw up the white paper which we expect in 2010. one major aspect is that, for purely economic reasons, all modes of transport will be needed tomorrow to answer the question of mobility, whether it is passenger or freight transport. efficient co-modality has, of course, this aspect of cost-effectiveness, but also the aspect that efficiency is to be evaluated according to environmental, social and also safety criteria. this means that we want to have a co-modality in transport tomorrow which takes account of the four pillars of transport. the completion of the internal market is an important aspect for us - not only do we attach great importance to liberalisation, we must also review this liberalisation together. we must also examine how the member states have implemented what they adopted five or ten years ago. the railways are a very good example of how poorly and hesitantly this is done. the issue of passenger safety or rights is very close to the citizen. we have seen it in previous debates, we have seen it in this debate: safety will be a key concept in all modes of transport, and we want to set the objectives here too. we expect a programme for the next five years with clear objectives, because over 40 000 road deaths and over 300 000 injuries are still exaggerated and we can reduce these figures if the member states are willing to implement certain proposals. european agencies - we would simply say - are the future for us as a european regulator. but it also means that certain states in certain areas, including security, simply give up their national autonomy and give way to a more central structure in order to reduce these differences that arise at the borders. of course, co2 reduction is another important part of this report road transport with almost 70%, but also transport in general, where the shares have increased in recent years. the 27 per cent we had as the last figure is a figure that has not diminished. we must therefore make efforts and we can, and that is why we have set clear targets there too, not only for road transport but also for air transport. we believe that with a clear strategy, we can reduce co2 emissions by about 20% over the next ten years. cities are a challenge, that's clear. we expect 80% of the population to live in cities and to be mobile. that is how these objectives are defined. and finally, transport can fit perfectly into the 2020 strategy, because research for europe and in transport is an important aspect that we can support, because it can help people not only economically, not only in terms of efficiency, but also in terms of safety, and so hopefully transport and mobility will be a little more integrated into the whole of european politics than unfortunately has often been the case in the past. i would like to thank you for the very constructive cooperation i have found in this report from all the groups and from all the members. (applause from the centre)
i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report, which is a very important one, and i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to present it to the house. i think, as other members have already said, that the rapporteur has done an excellent job and can produce a good report, of course in cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs. i would also like to mention my colleague magdalena alvarez, who is leaving us after this week and for whom this is the last report she has been able to work on. so, thank you all for the good work. the commission has some excellent recommendations in this report for the white paper which we expect later this year. i hope that this will be in october/november rather than in december or even january 2011, because we really need that white paper to get to work. the biggest and arguably most complex challenge is to achieve a more sustainable and efficient transport system. there are no miracle cures. if we want to achieve a low-carbon transport system, we will have to take a whole mix of measures, research and development, which will also have to introduce new technologies on the ground, set emission standards and internalize external costs through price mechanisms. we will also have to build up additional investments and so on and so forth. the final point, i believe, is that we use the most efficient means of transport and that we use the infrastructure we have in the most environmentally and economically optimal way. in many cases this will also have to be a combination of modes of transport and we must therefore encourage intermodal transport by improving interoperability between modes, but also within a mode of transport. the railways, for example, are another area where there is still a lot of work to be done. there are, of course, many other aspects. transportation is very broad. we can talk a lot about transportation for people, which we think is very important. i shall then speak about passenger rights, about social security in the sector. this is particularly important when we are talking about financing new investments. we must be creative enough to find additional resources in this difficult budgetary context. i conclude that we really need to come up with quantifiable targets for all kinds of things that have to do with transport and i ask the commission to do that in its white paper: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, this has been an interesting discussion. it is clear that we are facing a very challenging task in getting the priorities right for the transport sector over the next decade while ensuring that due account is given to different aspects, sometimes of a very controversial nature. you have already signalled all these controversial issues during today’s debate, and they are very well known with regard to railways. at the last part-session you had an interesting and controversial debate about competitive rail-freight corridors, which can be a very important development. let us work together to push necessary railway reforms. railway competitiveness versus road transport and also versus the global competitiveness of europe depends very much on the internal architecture of our railways: getting rid of privileges, getting rid of political interference and all these things. it is my strong conviction after my short period in this job. is transport cohesion also cohesion or not? electric vehicles: what is the contribution of electric vehicles to congestion, which is the most detested feature in transport? finances are always controversial, especially today. then there are regional interests, already signalled here; the interests of the mediterranean area. so let us work together and try to find the right balance. i believe that we can all agree on the general goals. tackling the future challenges of the transport system requires satisfying the mobility needs of citizens and businesses in a way that uses less and cleaner energy and exploits more efficiently the infrastructure and the potential of each mode. in this framework i am confident that cooperation between all european institutions will result and bring the benefit of a high-quality future transport system.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. thank you for your contributions. we have set targets in the report, and to achieve those targets, a lot of things are needed, including the financial ones. so i want to make it clear that it is not our intention to take the money from peter to give it to paul. but it would be a pity if peter were to appear very rich and paul really needed it to invest where it was needed. and what better combination than mobility and territorial cohesion? we must not regard this as competition, as some people do with an amendment which even comes from my group, but rather as cooperation. this is the basic concept of cohesion as we understand it. i therefore ask you very clearly not to support this amendment, because the fund will play a key role in our report, for the future and also in transport policy. we don't just need money to improve infrastructure. we need money for research, and research means more security and better technology. if we know that in the railway sector, for example, we must have seven or eight very different technologies, while in the road sector in europe we can drive from north to south or from west to east without any technological problems, then it is more than normal, precisely to make the regions grow together, that this money is properly used in research, interoperability and also technology. as far as the agencies are concerned, i would like to say again briefly that we are not interested in creating a new structure but in giving europe an important role. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is what we are trying to achieve with the agencies and with the report, and i thank you all for your very positive contributions.
mr president, more than ever, the europe of certain politicians is no longer the europe of the citizens. because some of us politicians are completely out of the game. how can we explain to people that we would rather cancel an appointment with ngos fighting against hunger in the world to receive a football player as a prince, and this on the day when two million people are demonstrating their dismay in the streets of france about pensions? but five days ago, a football coach was urgently responding to questions in a parliamentary inquiry. was there a man killed? what about mass layoffs, environmental pollution, or terrorist attacks? no, not at all. just a football team that, like 31 others, or like 30 others, is going to lose or has lost, and a coach who does not reach out to his south african counterpart, like a president who does not reach out to his fellow citizens. what if the world wasn't just filled with childish millionaire footballers and not even patriots, but with people losing their jobs, retired people who don't know how to keep warm in the winter? these people exist, and not just during election time. i am sorry, mr president sarkozy, but we do not have and will never have the same values and priorities.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that this text has been adopted by the committee on employment. the vote on this report, which is now being negotiated on the union's 2011 budget, is timely. parliament has expressed its willingness to make youth policies a priority. we welcome this, but these policies cannot be limited to the mobility of young people. they must also concern their rights. that's exactly what this is about. the abuses in the employment of trainees are worrying and risk creating a parallel labour market for young people. the precarious situation of young trainees, who repeat their traineeships where they could be employed, is detrimental to the european economy and particularly to the financing of social security systems. in this respect, i am pleased that my amendment calling for decent working and living conditions for these trainees has been incorporated into this report. in my view, this report is a step towards a real european status for the trainee.
in writing. a regulation which affects the daily lives of european citizens and yet is still awaiting adoption, the council's position being considered unambitious and unacceptable by the european parliament. like other modes of transport, bus and coach passengers have essential rights which we are trying to guarantee in this regulation: compensation in the event of delay, cancellation, loss or damage to luggage, non-discrimination for disabled and reduced mobility passengers, and above all the responsibility of bus drivers in the event of injury or death. travel has become much more democratic in recent years, and this is to be welcomed. but we cannot sell out prices at the expense of the safety of the hundreds of thousands of children, elderly people and families who travel our european roads every year. the adoption of this regulation is therefore also intended to put an end to the unscrupulous practices of companies offering attractive offers to customers who often have no other choice for travel.
in writing. in an ideal world, youth unemployment would be illegal. the reality is quite different: 5.5 million europeans under 25 are unemployed, unpaid, living in uncertainty and doubt. the united kingdom, spain and france are the countries most affected, but the situation is not very different in belgium. since 2000, youth unemployment in brussels has never been below 30%. the fault lies in early school drop-out, lack of language proficiency, lack of partnerships between schools and businesses. this is why, despite its limited powers in the field of social policy, the european union must promote access for young people to the labour market. the turunen report is in line with this. he outlines innovative ways of tackling youth unemployment. the new recommendation for a 'european quality charter for traineeships' to avoid the trivialization of the traineeship is part of this logic. it is accompanied by the ambitious idea of guaranteeing training to every young person who has been unemployed for more than four months. it also advocates a "decent income" for young people in employment, whether they have a degree or not. maybe it's because you always remember your first paycheck.
in writing. - a total of 5.5 million young people, or 21.4% of all young people under 25, are unemployed today. that's almost twice the average unemployment rate. in the european year of combating poverty and exclusion, the practical proposals of mr turunen are not a day too soon. we must prevent a whole generation of young people from being socially excluded and from jeopardizing europe's economic and social future. young people should have the right to a job or paid traineeship, training or a combination of both after 4 months of unemployment. the traineeship must provide a reasonable income and be limited in time, through a quality charter. the resolution also calls for 10% of the european social fund to be reserved for projects helping young people to find work. the european commission must also ensure that existing legislation in the various member states does not discriminate against young people and guarantees their access to social benefits in employment. long-term unemployment at a young age is detrimental to self-confidence and a positive outlook for the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the turunen report on promoting access for young people to the labour market, strengthening the status of trainees, apprentices and traineeships, which proposes ambitious but nonetheless concrete and realistic measures to combat youth unemployment. with 21.4% of young europeans under 25 unemployed, it is high time for action. we would therefore like to introduce a 'european youth guarantee' to ensure that young people are unemployed for no more than four months and to ensure that they have quality training and a decent income. i would particularly stress the need to provide young people with quality training to avoid the exploitation which exists in many companies and administrations. trainees are not volunteers and cannot replace an employee; they must be provided with educational support and minimum benefits.
in writing. − people today work in all kinds of capacities: employed or (apparently) self-employed, full-time, part-time, limited or unlimited, working from home or on a temporary basis. the fact is that the flexibility demanded by employers often comes at the expense of the necessary protection of workers. the green group today tabled an alternative resolution which sought to focus on a clear statute for 'workers' (in any capacity) and called for a directive guaranteeing equal rights for all workers. this resolution has not succeeded and parliament has missed an opportunity to build a stronger social europe. however, i also supported the original resolution because it calls for the extension of workers' protection, the guarantee of workers' basic rights, safe transition to other work and the strengthening of the role of trade unions. in the european year for the eradication of poverty, we can certainly use this approach, especially when we know that more and more people are employed in atypical contracts. in europe, 8% of the working population is poor and 17% of europeans have low incomes. action is therefore certainly desirable and i therefore welcome the position of the whole european parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i am satisfied with the presentation of the package by the president of the commission and, if i may be permitted to give an opinion, i suggest that you table it as soon as possible, on the basis of your right of initiative. put it on the council's table and put it on the european parliament's table because that is the mechanism of the union. the commission has the initiative. i therefore wish the working group that has been set up much success, but in the end the commission will have to take up its responsibilities and put a proposal on the table of the various institutions. nevertheless, mr president, there are still some questions about this package. the first and fundamental question is who will manage this economic governance. are they the member states, the council or the community institutions, i.e. the european central bank and the european commission? the european parliament is quite clear: it must be the community institutions, because i have never seen that the member states could exercise this control themselves. it's not working. it never worked in the past, and it won't work in the future either. secondly, i am in favour of sanctions, but not only in relation to the stability pact, because, as you said, this is only one aspect of the policy. it is also necessary to do so, for example, at the level of competitiveness, structural reforms and the european economy. there must be sanctions and i ask some member states to be more consistent on this point. they defend - they even demand - sanctions in relation to the stability pact, but when it comes to sanctions at the level of europe 2020, in terms of competitiveness, they are much more reluctant. it's either one or the other. if we want sanctions, they must be applied in all areas. my third point is that we must also think, mr president of the commission, about a strategy for economic growth. we cannot just say we are going to reduce the deficit. this reduction is necessary - as a former budget minister, i like to reduce deficits - but alongside this, we also need a policy of economic growth, and the only body that can fuel this is the european union. the union has borrowing capacity, it has projects, at the level of the pan-european infrastructure that is needed, as mr monti's report emphasizes, and it is therefore in this sense also that the commission must make proposals: not only to reduce deficits - which is necessary because the stability pact requires it - but also to develop a credible strategy for economic growth, so as not to fall into the trap of economic stagnation in the japanese style, such as we have known for more than ten years. the fourth element is stress testing. i'm glad the decision was made to make them public. it should have been done a year ago, as the americans did, because this is the only way to replenish the credits at the level of the private sector. finally - and i will end with this, mr president - on financial supervision, let us be very clear on this point: there will be no agreement with parliament if the council and the member states do not respect the fact that in the event of conflict, it is the european authority that has the last word. that's a crucial point. moreover, this element is included in the commission's proposals. this is the starting point for the larosière exercise. the member states have not yet understood. it is time, mr president, for the member states to accept this. otherwise there will be no agreement on financial supervision.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i would like to address the council and i am obviously, like many of us, frustrated that i cannot do so in person because i would like to tell the council that parliament is reasonable in this matter. it simply calls for european supervision for european actors, national supervision for national actors. it calls for consumer protection, and in particular the banning of products which everyone here calls toxic, and not only here, but also in industry, in the trade. if they're toxic, why allow them? it is obvious that he is asking for binding measures. and all of this, it seems to me, is not about extremism. why can't the council accept that? i think that the patience of our fellow citizens, the patience of this parliament, is running out. if we are giving the belgian presidency a chance to act, we must seize the opportunity and have results as soon as next week. you know, in belgium we are faced with slogans like 'eigen volk eerst' or 'what we do, we do better' and unfortunately it is this national egoism that we find all too often at european level. this is the most likely way of paving the way to a declining future for the citizens of this continent of which we can be proud. so, as jean-claude trichet said, after monetary federation we need economic and budgetary federation. and that, i have no other name to call a political federation.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the good cooperation which, in my view, has enabled us to adopt a coherent set of positions and recommendations. the financial crisis has shown that the remuneration policy in the financial sector was too focused on short-term profits and that this encouraged risk-taking behaviour with all its consequences for the whole economy after the banking crisis. moreover, it has been shown that non-binding recommendations on remuneration policy have only a limited effect and it is therefore important that we establish rules of the game which should contribute to sustainable growth of the companies concerned and the economy as a whole. the political agreement on the capital requirements directive proposed so justly by my colleague arlene mccarthy is an important step forward, as it contains for the first time binding provisions on the structure and payment of bonuses in the financial sector. in particular, the limitation of cash payments, the provision that in the event of poor performance the bonus should also be limited and the spread of the payment of bonuses over several years seem to me to be important points. in my report i have tried to show that this is not enough and that we must look at the remuneration policy from a broader perspective and strengthen the so-called corporate governance rules so that the rules of the game and the internal procedures for all companies in the financial sector on the one hand and for listed companies on the other meet the same criteria. first, it is important to establish and develop sound internal and external controls over remuneration policy. companies should therefore have a remuneration committee which is independent and accountable to shareholders and supervisors, who should also have access to all relevant information. the committee should also be able to work closely with the risk committee in assessing incentives created by the reward system. people involved in risk control must, of course, be independent of the business units they control, have sufficient authority and be rewarded, regardless of the performance of the business units they supervise. risk management arrangements should be subject to detailed scrutiny by the supervisor and companies should establish an internal procedure to deal with problems and disputes that may arise between risk management and their operational units. the remuneration itself should reflect as much as possible the long-term performance of the company. a bonus cannot be guaranteed without a fight. the size of the variable remuneration should be based on predetermined and measurable performance criteria and should not be based only on quantitative but also on qualitative criteria. moreover, from the point of view of social justice and for ethical reasons, the difference between the highest and lowest remuneration in a company must remain reasonable. the payment of part of the variable remuneration must be made over a sufficiently long period. moreover, more than half should be paid out through shares or share-based instruments and it should be possible to effectively recover part of those bonuses. there should also be a ceiling on the amount of severance pay, limited to a maximum of two years' salary, and it should certainly not be paid in the event of a failure to perform or voluntary departure. in the interests of transparency, it is important that details of the company pension and supplementary pension schemes are made public and that shareholders should be able to express their views on the remuneration policy of their company. we also call for the development of an international structure to make public which people earn more than 1 million euros, including the main elements of salary bonuses, long-term bonuses and pension contributions. we ask the european commission to continue its work and to develop strict binding principles on remuneration in the financial sector in addition to those we have already agreed. for listed companies we ask that a system be set up which will enable us to know in all transparency which companies are keeping their agreements and which are not. i think we can go further on the subject. i look forward to your proposals on corporate governance, commissioner, which will be announced in the green paper, because that is also a dossier on which we will certainly continue to work in the coming months and years.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too want to be brief. i think we all agree that there are rules of the game in terms of remuneration policy and it is clear - as the evaluation of the recommendations on remuneration policy published by the commission a year ago shows - that they should be as binding as possible. i am aware, of course, that not everyone wants to go as far as they do and that not everyone is as ambitious, but we must all agree that what we are discussing today and hopefully approving tomorrow is only a first step in the right direction. but it must not be the end of the road. obviously, there's still some work to be done. the role of supervisors should be strengthened to enable external control of the remuneration policy in the enterprises. the role of the remuneration committees should be clarified, as well as the link with the risk management people. the role of shareholders must also be strengthened. i am therefore also very pleased to hear, commissioner, that you are in favour of a regulatory framework on corporate governance for all companies and i understand that this will be the subject of a thorough debate with the stakeholders in the coming months. this is important and it is also an important signal to our citizens that we are committed to establishing good rules of the game here in the interests of the companies themselves and in the interests of the economy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we were elected in belgium in the middle of the food crisis, the chicken crisis with pcbs and such issues. one of the first things the commission proposed was the white paper on food safety, which i think proposed 83 measures to ensure food safety in the european union. so many years later, 11 years in between, we can be proud of the work we've done. i think that about 90% of all that work has been done and one of the few remaining issues is indeed related to the announcement at the time by the european commission to look at how we should deal with these kinds of products, with novel foods. foodstuffs produced using new production techniques which did not exist before 15 may 1997. the commission's original proposal of january 2008 was a proposal that sought to achieve a number of objectives: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. i think that mrs liotard has had a brilliant career as rapporteur over the last three years, working well with the shadow rapporteurs and working well within the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the european parliament. it succeeded in securing a very large majority for its proposals at first reading, a majority which is rarely achieved. it was 658 mps who supported her work. so i think it is important, commissioner, and the council, which is unfortunately absent, to know that this parliament is one and incredibly strong. we believe that foodstuffs derived from cloned animals and their offspring should be excluded from the scope of this regulation and we do indeed want more than a report, commissioner. we want a legislative proposal from the european commission. the green group would like to go further and, in addition, call for a moratorium on these foods. we want the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal quickly and we are really pushing for that. i think the unity here, including in what has been said by the previous speakers, is very clear. the council, absent, has adopted only a very limited number of our amendments at first reading. it is clear that the council is treating this matter very rigidly. i'm sorry about that. the fact that this is happening in such a rigid way is the reason why, despite the efforts of the past weeks and months and the numerous informal meetings, we have not really made any progress and are now forced to hold a second reading, to maintain a strong unity and to ensure that in the conciliation with the council we do make some progress. i therefore support with my whole group the rapporteur's approach and the fact that we want to keep as many of the amendments from the first reading as possible, as well as the whole approach on cloned animals and also other elements of this proposal. i hope that this message to the council after the vote will be very clear and that we can then have a fair and constructive discussion. i hope the commission will keep its promise to come up with more than a report, but a legislative proposal. i believe that the european citizen really needs this and is asking for it.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my dear colleague the under-secretary of state and, of course, the president of the european commission. president, stand by me, before they are awakened, a word of congratulations to eleven dutch friends. - thank you. i hope that the fair is played and that the best team wins in the final. ladies and gentlemen, a european final, who would have believed it a few weeks ago? in any case, from the other side of the world, european footballers are setting an example of excellence, courage, self-confidence and a passion for winning. ladies and gentlemen, from the outside, europe has everything to be happy about. the success of the european union has helped to spread peace and a democratic system of government to almost the whole of our continent. the european union has created unprecedented prosperity through its common market. but this europe, it is true, is not able, or too little, to be happy. i am sure that you too, ladies and gentlemen, have seen how in asia, for example, energy, ambition, self-confidence and confidence in the future are almost tangible. america, on the other hand, still believes in itself, despite its problems. and finally, the holding of the world cup in south africa is a strong signal to africa and an adrenaline rush from africa. europe, on the other hand, seems to have lost faith in the future all too often. we must therefore restore confidence in europe, and renew our ambition for european union. ladies and gentlemen, our action, mr president, is part of that ambition, an ambition which you certainly share. it is all the more necessary to get europe back on track, since the rest of the world is not waiting for us. panta rei: everything is movement. indeed, if there is one constant in our world, it is the constant and ultra-rapid change - technological change, economic change, change, too, in the power relations around the world. in this changing world, where new economic and political power poles are emerging, europe is facing enormous challenges. and it is around these challenges that we, as the belgian presidency, have structured the five lines of action of our presidency. the first challenge for europe is of course to get back to sustainable economic growth. this return naturally requires a strengthening of financial stability. we must restore financial and economic stability, restore budgetary discipline without hindering economic recovery and return to the path of at least 2% annual growth. we need this growth to finance our social model, this specific european model to which we all remain very attached. we also need growth to establish our credibility in the world. ladies and gentlemen, a banking crisis for which we are not responsible has plunged us into a severe recession, from which we are struggling to emerge more than other continents. the european commission has proposed many initiatives to protect us against financial adventurism, against a repetition of the drift which has had such serious consequences, both for our states and for our citizens. we share your ambition to complete the new supervision structure for financial institutions and alternative investment funds such as hedge funds as quickly as possible. this week parliament, the council and the commission have been discussing this matter at length. and i believe that you will be adopting your amendments on supervision today, but in doing so i believe that you are also giving an opportunity for further dialogue, which we very much appreciate. so let us now come together to have a dialogue, to continue the dialogue, but above all to adopt a text that we have been waiting for so long. i would like to point out that the belgian presidency was absent yesterday because of the swearing-in ceremony in the belgian parliament, and you know that there is a pre-session for the parliaments. that is why, unfortunately, the belgian presidency was not present yesterday. in any event, the commission has also recently announced an overall package of 20 other proposals in the area of financial services. ladies and gentlemen, the belgian presidency will try, in close consultation with you, with parliament, to draw up a roadmap to ensure that they are implemented by the end of 2011. on the other hand, as we know, the task force will be ready in october with its recommendations on strengthening budgetary discipline, the stability and growth pact and economic governance. the recent euro crisis has shown that a monetary union without genuine economic coordination is unworkable. the union needs economic governance more than ever. the task force will therefore make recommendations for more rigorous monitoring, particularly at the budgetary level. this monitoring will not only concern the budgetary policies of our member states, but also the economic parameters which allow us to judge the credibility of the budgets presented. the commission will then take all the necessary initiatives to implement these recommendations. the council and parliament must also address this matter without delay. this is a priority for the belgian presidency and we will give our full support to ensure that these recommendations are put into practice as quickly as possible. ladies and gentlemen, as i said, our first challenge is to get back to sustainable economic growth. in the era of globalisation, we need to step up our efforts to make europe a competitive and innovative economy again, and to become a low-carbon economy. the way forward is the eu 2020 strategy for innovation and jobs. the belgian presidency will build on the flagship initiatives announced by the commission. but sustainable growth is not just a matter of economic parameters. it is also, and above all, a matter of human persons. it is judged by what it brings to the greatest number. and as we can see in many countries, there is no sustainable growth, no real sustainable growth without social cohesion, which is the second major european challenge and the second priority of our presidency. this is why belgium insisted and won in the eu 2020 programme that the objective of fighting poverty be extended to the broader notion of social cohesion. whether for that reason or to promote economic growth, ladies and gentlemen, we must put europe back to work, we must raise the employment rate. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to dwell for a moment on a subject which is very close to my heart: that of our industrial base, the industrial base of the european economy. it seems to me that europe today is in fact sometimes lacking in joint industrial projects, emblematic and inspiring projects, as were and are, for example, ariane, high-speed trains or airbus. these are not prestige, symbols, but real levers for our prosperity and the creation of future jobs. recently, i have been struck by economic analyses that show that countries with a strong industrial base have been better able to withstand the crisis than those with a more service-oriented economy. the european industrial fabric must be renewed. there are not necessarily traditional manufacturing sectors that are doomed either to relocate to low-wage countries or to disappear. but there are modes of production that are. through innovation, through the production of high-quality products with high added value, european countries are already succeeding in safeguarding a high-performing, profitable industry with employees who are among the best paid in the world. ladies and gentlemen, we europeans have won the telecommunications revolution. we have not been as successful in computer science. we certainly must not miss the green revolution, not only research, but also, and most importantly, the production of green technology. in fact, europe has excellent researchers. but the united states and china, for example, are catching up to us when it comes to turning research results into industrial production. the commission's flagship initiative in the industrial field will therefore be particularly awaited. we also attach the utmost importance to the december council, which will be devoted to innovation in industry. the chapter on growth and innovation is a concrete issue which we want to unblock under our presidency. it is the european patent we have been waiting for for thirty years. we must think of our enterprises, especially smes. how much money and energy is being wasted by our companies for the lack of a single procedure at the level of the 27! our operators are suffering a real handicap in the face of international competition. by unblocking this file, the council and the european parliament have a great opportunity to demonstrate their importance to the citizens in concrete cases. now we must put words into action. i believe that the credibility of european innovation policy is at stake. ladies and gentlemen, the protection of the environment and the climate is the third great challenge for which europe, for which the european union stands, is at once the third objective of our presidency. there is no real sustainable economic growth without protecting our planet - a planet that we do not own but that we borrow from our children. the european union is worldleader in measures to protect the environment and to combat greenhouse gas emissions. the european union is worldleader in reducing its greenhouse gas emissions. but the role of the forerunners is not enough. the eu is not satisfied with the way the un climate summit in copenhagen has been conducted. the european union, let us be clear, did not speak with one voice in what was therefore - if in football players remain - on the bench, while on the field the game was being played. the european union must therefore in the coming weeks and months become more active, more valuable and more assertive in looking at the instruments at its disposal to get other major players and immediately also other major polluters on board for an ambitious plan for protecting our planet. only in this way can conferences from cancún to nagoya yield real results. ladies in heren, ik verwees er al naar. i'm going to the beach. the european union is like people who say they have everything to be happy. indeed, the european union is very attractive. the european union has its welfare, its system of solidarity and its very human democratic form of government. they also tend to be right, many people on other continents are, people in europe want a better life. indeed, the overwhelming majority came yesterday with good intentions, looking for what was recently said during a conference on afghanistan that would be called "the modest miracle of a normal life". such immigration was, is and will be a source of enrichment for our continent. on the other hand, others today also abuse the system of freedom. the european union is a major player in the fight against organised crime. the european union is not a terrorist organization. ladies and gentlemen, the security of our citizens, the guarantee of their security and freedom is therefore a fourth great challenge for europe. the union must become more than a space of justice, security and freedom. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the stockholm programme to include the following areas: the development of a community policy on migration, asylum and the fight against terrorism is of particular importance for belgium. in the field of criminal law cooperation, our priority is the recognition of the courts of the member states. the commission has also paid particular attention to the development of a european system for the procurement of evidence. in connection with the fight against international terrorism, belgium wishes to reach a swift swift agreement with the usa, an agreement which combines the protection of citizens' data with effective terrorism prevention. and i'm glad that we can come to an agreement tomorrow. the belgian presidency builds on the highly appreciated work of the spanish presidencies in this area. this brings me, last but certainly not least, to the fifth challenge facing the union: its role on the international scene. the challenges there are huge and numerous: combating climate change; helping to preserve or restore peace; promoting the spread of open government; combating international terrorism; preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction; ending gross violations of human rights in areas of conflict, with special attention to violence against women; drawing up a coherent common energy policy; preserving and improving our market share. as already mentioned, the copenhagen summit painfully demonstrated that being the world's largest trading bloc and being rich and attractive and a self-proclaimed role model of soft power does not buy us sufficient international bargaining power. the union has to develop more leverage to bring others on board and create coalitions for the realization of its objectives for peace, for sustainable development, for security and for free trade that is also fair. this requires more than ever that the union speaks with one voice, and preferably with one mouth. the lisbon treaty provides the union with new tools for this purpose. in the next six months, the union will start the establishment of a european diplomatic service. this is also one of the major challenges of our presidency. we have indeed to decide on the organisation and operation of the external action service, and we have to adopt, with parliament, the financial and staff regulations of that service. belgium will do everything possible for a smooth and successful start to this external action service, which will enhance the visibility and also the credibility of the european union worldwide. enlargement is another major element. the negotiations with candidate states have to be pursued vigorously, and all candidates must be judged solely on their own merits, in accordance with the renewed consensus of the european council of december 2006. the negotiations with croatia could enter their final phase under our presidency. with turkey, they will continue their race. with iceland, they will start. for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the presidency will endeavour to find an agreement for starting the accession negotiations. our belgian presidency is in fact the first one which takes place entirely under the lisbon treaty. belgium feels honour bound to exercise it with full respect for the letter and the spirit of the treaty, so as to create the right precedents. you are of course aware that elections have taken place in my country, that the negotiations on the formation of a new coalition will take some time, and that my government is a so-called caretaker government. i would like to assure you that this will not in any way diminish the vigour and enthusiasm of our presidency. this 12th presidency is supported by a broad consensus in my country and by a long european tradition. we have in our political world in belgium, at the federal as well as at the regional level, in our diplomatic corps and in our civil service, a large number of men and women with a profound knowledge of the european union. preparation has been very thorough, in close cooperation with the other member states of the trio, and with the european institutions. moreover, the government is supported by the european conviction of the population. the nine political parties taking part in belgium in the federal and regional governments represent 90% of the population of the country. belgium is one of the countries where the european idea and the project of european integration still command very wide popular support. last but not least, we have carefully and deliberately embedded our presidency in the european agenda so as to set realistic goals and to promote them efficiently. i do not doubt our ability to conduct our presidency efficiently, just as i do not doubt that the new government, when it is formed, will continue it smoothly and seamlessly. as i made clear, a rotating presidency is part of an ongoing european process; it does not constitute an entirely new start. however, each presidency brings its own accents and the start is always an opportunity to refocus the attention of the population on the importance of the european union, on the importance of european ideals. the festivities which surround the start of our presidency demonstrate the wide support for those ideals in my country. from the king and the royal house to the concerts and dances in so many cities and villages, all communities and social classes took an enthusiastic part in celebrating the start of our 12th presidency. i also want to express my sincere appreciation for the meetings i was able to have with colleagues in these last days, with you, with representatives of this parliament. i found those meetings very instructive and constructive, and my government attaches the greatest importance to close cooperation with the elected representatives of the european citizens. i would like to address a last word to those populations whom you represent. i would indeed like to urge them to believe in themselves, to have ambition for themselves, for their countries and for europe. our european union must avoid two pitfalls: the pitfall of despondency and the pitfall of complacency. there is no reason for despondency. we should not fear the new competition in an increasingly multi-polar world. on the contrary, we should rejoice in it. for we ourselves helped to bring this new world about, for example by our efforts in favour of a more equitable distribution of resources and power. as has been said, what is happening now is not "the decline of the west" but "the rise of the rest". we must throw ourselves into this competition with zest and confidence confidence in ourselves and in all the assets we have. nor are there grounds for complacency. we can certainly be proud of great achievements in the past. we have systems of government which combine political and economic freedom with social solidarity and ecological responsibility. we offer many of our citizens a living standard which is amongst the highest in the world. but we can't just sit back and enjoy what we have. the rest of the world doesn't owe us a living. we have to work for it; we have to work even harder for it. i do not think that this assembly needs convincing that, to get our union and its member states in higher gear, we need 'more europe'. this objective of 'more europe' is at the core of the belgians' european and international policy. my country has always favoured the community method, the community method, and continues to do so wholeheartedly. more europe means, in the priorities and objectives of our presidency: endowing the union with a new financial regulatory structure; strengthening its economic governance; stimulating its return to sustainable growth; consolidating its social model; enhancing its capacity for innovation; developing its diplomatic service. i stand before you, the representatives of almost half a billion european citizens, to ask you for your cooperation and your support for those ambitions of our presidency. the treaty of lisbon has, i am happy to say, strengthened the powers of the european parliament and thus made it more than ever the driving force for european integration. my colleagues and i look forward to fruitful cooperation between our presidency and all of you, members of the european parliament, in support of the ambitions for europe which we all share. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, belgium is taking over the rotating presidency of the council at a key moment for the european union, and i thank the prime minister for presenting such a clear and ambitious programme. the challenges of the coming months are very clear. these include putting in place new mechanisms to coordinate our economic policies, stabilising the economic recovery through the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs, and ensuring that europe shoulders its global responsibilities. the june european council supported the proposals put forward by the commission in its communication of 12 may on strengthening fiscal discipline and macroeconomic surveillance, which were also discussed in the context of the task force chaired by mr van rompuy. the final report of the task force will be presented by october. in the meantime, the commission has stepped up its work to translate these guidelines into concrete proposals, notably in its communication of 30 june. the aim is to strengthen macroeconomic surveillance, including through sanctions and warning mechanisms, and the stability and growth pact, with a particular focus on the issue of the level of debt and deficits. finally, the european semester will make it possible to achieve more effective ex ante coordination of policies. it is crucial that this is completed as quickly as possible, and commissioner olli rehn is making every effort to bring the necessary legislative proposals forward as soon as possible. i am counting on the belgian presidency, as well as on the european parliament, to move forward with the work so that we have a new system in place by the end of 2010. the belgian semester should allow decisive progress in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. this implies that each member state should adopt this strategy and integrate it into the various policies: finance, budget, employment, innovation, environment, energy, education and social policy. the instrument for achieving this is the preparation by each member state of its national reform programme in the coming months. the follow-up of this exercise by all the institutions is a prerequisite for the success of the strategy. the various community policies prepared by the commission's collegiate work will support and amplify the movement which will be initiated by each member state. the flagship initiatives that the commission will present by the end of the year will be crucial in this respect. i would like to speak more specifically about three of these initiatives, namely those centred on employment and education, on innovation and on industrial policy. the employment issue remains at the heart of the news, and i welcome the priority given to employment by the belgian presidency. in this context, the initiative 'a strategy for new skills and new jobs', prepared under the coordination of commissioners andor and vassiliou, will aim to create the conditions for the modernisation of the labour market with the aim of improving employment rates and ensuring the sustainability of our social models. to create jobs, we need growth, and much of our future growth will have to come from innovation. the flagship initiative 'a union for innovation', coordinated by commissioner geoghegan-quinn, will therefore be one of the key topics under the belgian presidency. the main aim will be to facilitate the commercialisation of innovation, to identify a number of european innovation partnerships to address societal challenges in areas where the european union can bring added value, and to improve the efficiency of european, national and regional innovation systems. it is particularly important to make progress on the community patent in the coming months. the commission has just put forward a proposal on this subject. in addition, the flagship initiative on 'industrial policy in the era of globalisation', which is being prepared under the coordination of vice-president tajani and which we will present in october, will aim to improve the business environment, particularly for smes, and to support the development of a strong and sustainable industrial base, capable of facing global competition. in addition to these flagship initiatives, i would like to highlight two other projects which are of major concern. following the publication of the report i asked mario monti to produce, the commission will present an initiative on strengthening the internal market, including in view of the 20th anniversary of the internal market in 2012. we intend to present it under the belgian presidency. commissioner barnier is working hard on this. other contributions will come from, for example, vice-president reding and commissioner šemeta, to mention only two other colleagues. the internal market is, by its transversal nature, at the heart of our collective approach. i would also stress the importance of the reflection on the future of our trade policy, which is being worked on by commissioner de gucht and which will be presented in the form of a communication in the autumn. in parallel, we will continue our work on financial market reform in cooperation with our g20 partners. as regards financial services, we must continue on the path of reform. the commission communication adopted on 2 june underlines that all necessary measures will be proposed by spring 2011. but in fact the bulk of the work will be done under the belgian presidency. so this semester will be very busy, mr. prime minister. these measures are our response to the financial crisis and we have presented them in a coordinated and coherent manner. i am counting on the presidency to make as much progress as possible in the council, and on this parliament to give this area a high priority. in direct connection with this strategy for the development of the european union up to 2020, the commission will present the budget revision document in september. it is difficult to talk about policy without at some point considering the means to be used to implement it. this document, to which commissioner lewandowski and i are devoting particular attention, will enable the european parliament and the member states to decide on the key principles for the next financial framework. the commission welcomes the belgian presidency's intention to carry out its evaluation in parallel with the work on the preparation of the 2011 budget. the importance, gravity and urgency of these economic, social, financial and budgetary matters must not lead us to withdraw into ourselves. we have very important international responsibilities. the g20 summit in seoul is a major event. this will be the time to check the implementation of the commitments made by all the actors. i want to maintain european leadership in this respect. the commission will therefore be fully involved in the preparations for this summit and we will do everything to ensure that europe's voice is heard fully. among the many important international meetings, such as the one on biodiversity in nagoya, i would like to highlight the copenhagen follow-up conference, which will take place in cancún in december. we must make very concrete progress in implementing the copenhagen agreement, working with both the industrialized and the developing countries. we are doing this through the extensive and extended contacts that the commission, and commissioner hedegaard in particular, is conducting to prepare the ground for a comprehensive, balanced and binding international agreement, which remains our main objective. we should also redouble our efforts to achieve the millennium development goals, as we said at the g8 summit. we will have to speak with a strong and united voice at the un general assembly in september and at special summit events to assess our own, the international community's, progress towards the millennium development goals. i intend to represent the european union. the coherence of our external action will be strengthened by the establishment of the external action service. the commitment of the high representative and vice-president of the commission, catherine ashton, has enabled our three institutions to lay the foundations for a rapid start on a solid foundation. it is now up to us to agree on the detailed texts which must be in place as soon as possible and which we will discuss with parliament. we have therefore, ladies and gentlemen, an extremely busy agenda ahead of us, but with the determination and the community spirit which animate and unite this belgian presidency, the european parliament and the commission, europe will, i am sure, rise to the challenge. the history of european integration has shown that it is normally in times of crisis that europe shows that it is capable of facing its difficulties and overcoming them for the good of all our fellow citizens.
i would like to say, mr president, that the belgian presidency will have the full support of the european parliament and, in any case, of my group, the europe of freedom and democracy group. the reason for this is also very simple. belgian presidencies, mr president, have always tried to advance and accelerate european integration. that is exactly what we need with europe today. in the multipolar world of tomorrow, where countries such as china, india and the united states of america are the centre of gravity, only a united and integrated europe can play a role, and i am glad that the belgian presidency will uphold the tradition of promoting european integration. what we need most, mr prime minister, from the belgian presidency is the following commitment. i believe that i said these words to the spanish presidency six months ago. we must urgently finish our homework on the economic and financial crisis. europe has not done its homework. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. in fact, the belgian presidency would be a great success if those five files were closed as soon as possible. first of all, the stress test of the banks must be ended and, if necessary, the banks recapitalised. there will be no economic growth, no resumption of lending unless the banking sector is cleaned up first and foremost. secondly, mr president, the strengthening of the stability pact in the right way. that means very concretely with the european commission and the european central bank in the cockpit. not with the member states in the cockpit! it can't be! it's not working! member states do not sanction each other, do not control each other. only the community institutions can do that. thirdly, a real economic governance. that's the third problem. the european union must be able to take the lead in the fight against unemployment, and the european union must be able to play a leading role in the fight against unemployment. fourthly, there is an urgent need to finalise the regulation of a number of financial products, including leverage funds. we're working on it, but we have to make a decision on that file. finally, last but not least, it has already been said here that it is urgently necessary to put european supervision of banks on a firmer footing. let me be clear on this point, mr prime minister, some member states, most member states have still not learned the lessons of the crisis. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. none of our national supervisors, from any of the 27 member states, ever raised the alarm or ever lit the flickers at the moment of the financial crisis. and now the member states are coming to tell us that it must be the national authorities who must carry on with this task. let me say, mr prime minister, that there will be no agreement with parliament unless the european supervisors have the final say. that's what today is all about. if i may give you one piece of advice in that regard. i can only give you one piece of advice. it's not the custom for us to do that in belgium. i was given a lot of advice when you were in opposition and i'm trying to give you some advice now that you're in the majority. in order to reach agreement on this european surveillance, it may be necessary, mr prime minister, to give up unanimity in the council. i think you should not try to persuade parliament to change its position. no, it is the council which must change its position, which means that it must give up the search for unanimity and try to reach an agreement with the european parliament on the basis of a qualified majority. finally, if i may, mr president, i think there is one last point which we must discuss with the belgian presidency, namely that in addition to all the rhetoric about restructuring - which is necessary, because restructuring is the growth of the future - we also need an economic growth strategy. i am thinking in particular of a pan-european infrastructure plan. the commission must do so in order to complete the internal market with the southern and central european countries. that should be part of your program, too.
on behalf of the group of the european right president, mr leterme, i have great respect for you, great appreciation. you're the rotating chairman and the outgoing chairman. you are not really on a mission, but in europe you will always have to maintain a mission. you're like a kind of european missionary, you know. can i give you some advice? i won't use the usual bureaucratic language, but i will say, you are a west fleming. you're hardworking, stubborn and thrifty. i think those are excellent qualities. you also have a good dose of common sense like many west flemings. i have become a little more familiar with west-flemish politics in recent years. i want to save you from the tower of babel effect. you say: more europe and more must be added, and so on. we must be careful not to build a tower of babel where we look more at the danger itself and less at the quality. the stability pact is an example of this. we had a stability pact and mr prodi said in 2002 that the stability pact was stupid, inflexible, stupid. stupid, he said, and then, of course, a thing like that collapses. the red thread of your program is actually money. first of all, we have to look at the euro. we're not out of the woods. is greece going to make it or not? we are moving towards a situation of, if i may say so, l'euro du beurre et l'euro des olives? that would be bad. i am in favour of a healthy euro. you too? then the group of the european conservatives and reformists will be fully behind you. the solution is budgetary discipline, smaller government and more debt restructuring. you can see from the united states that large aid programmes do not help. employment is not rising in the united states. it's also about the budget. i have a question about that. you say more europe. then everyone in belgium says, and that is also a tradition in belgian foreign policy, that means more money. i'm not really into that. the commission has often had to deal with under-contracting. sometimes she has left over money from the structural funds. in 2008, the commission had to pay back four and a half billion euros to the member states, so 1% of gdp is enough. finally, with a european tax, be careful with that. in germany, the atmosphere is explosive. people can't afford to pay for everything. germany can't always pay. german politicians don't always dare to say that, and i say it for them. in germany it's: the world champion yes, the world champion no, herr schulz. we shall see the first on sunday, but the second, i agree with. so we should not start with european taxes. you're bringing that up. mr verhofstadt has always talked about it, about european taxation, but i never knew whether he was speaking for himself or for his group. mr dehaene is starting to talk about it again. we must not do that, or the tower of babel will fall.
mr president, what we have just heard is a bit like the orchestra of the titanic. the presidency of the european union is now occupied by a country which is not even able to govern itself. it is unprecedented for a rotating presidency to have to deal with a resigning government right from the start, and it is far from certain that a new federal government will be formed in belgium within six months of that presidency. after the last election in 2007, it took nine months to form a government. that is because the artificial belgian construction is unmanageable. flanders and wallonia have become two different countries with two totally different political, socioeconomic and cultural realities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. no less than european commissioner karel de gucht recently called the belgian government a permanent diplomatic conference. what is the democratic legitimacy of a belgian government which represents less than one in three voters in flanders? if we are to believe mr leterme, everything will be fine. the belgian government will try to hide its lack of decisiveness and its lack of democratic legitimacy behind a smokescreen of ultra-federalist rhetoric. but the painful reality is that belgium is lagging far behind the rest of europe in the transposition of european legislation. the same applies to the number of infringement proceedings pending. in addition, the belgian public debt is over 100% and the immigration and asylum policies have got so out of hand that we should rather speak of an open-border policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how can mr leterme know that his european programme enjoys wide popular support if there has never been a referendum, for example on turkey's possible accession to the european union? there can be no referendum on that, mr leterme. so the belgian presidency can take a low profile. the member states must beware of a failed state which is trying to export its problems to europe, which wants to make europe a kind of belgium in the big picture. the european union can only prepare itself for the disintegration of belgium and the emergence of two new states, two potential new member states of the european union, flanders and wallonia.
mr president, i would first of all like to say to mr claeys that belgium has always solved its problems by political agreements and has always worked towards a stronger europe and stronger regions, closer to the people. the belgian presidency, as you have stressed, mr prime minister, is the first to implement the treaty of lisbon in full and to set the tone for future council presidencies by interpreting a new institutional agreement. the presidency must concentrate on the functioning of the council, since the european council has become a separate institution with a permanent president. the new treaty defines the powers of the council in exactly the same terms as those of the european parliament. the two bodies exercise jointly the legislative and budgetary functions. the treaty thus expressly establishes a bicameral system at union level. although there are important exceptions, codecision is now the general rule. i cannot help feeling that the council is still not sufficiently aware of this new development. this is evident, among other things, from the trialogue for the preparation of the 2011 budget. the belgian presidency can play an important role in this process of raising awareness. the presidency of the council should now function as the presidency of a parliamentary assembly. it should help to advance the union's legislative and budgetary agenda initiated by the commission by promoting consensus within the council, but also by promoting agreements between the council and parliament. for this presidency, this is clearly a final regulation of the financial institutions, a european foreign service, the budget and the financial perspective. in each of these schemes the community approach should be strengthened. that's the only way to get results. the belgian presidency must ensure that the eu really speaks with one voice at the cancún climate conference. the most efficient model is the world trade organisation, where the commission speaks and negotiates on behalf of the union. the belgian presidency should reach a consensus to apply this model to the climate conference. i believe in a strong and efficient belgian presidency, especially since a government can deal with current affairs almost full time.
i would like to begin by wishing you every success at the start of this belgian presidency. you have heard some of our colleagues expressing doubts about this presidency, saying that because it is a resigning government, it will be a weak presidency. well, i don't think that's what happened. that is what you have shown today in one of the most passionate speeches i have ever heard. i am very glad that you have presented it here in this parliament. so i believe that this can be a strong presidency and that you will be a good host of the european union, not least because - and i am very proud of that - we are a country that thinks very pro-european, as if it were in our genes. but the question is, will it be enough? you and many others have pointed out that the financial package is of particular importance to us, but i would also like to remind you to give strong support to some of our top priorities as socialists. climate and social. i shall take the last part out of it because it is particularly close to my heart. i would like the belgian presidency to be able to achieve results in the fight against poverty during the european year of poverty. i hope that you will be able to promote the idea of a european minimum income and urge the commission to take initiatives in this area. you have heard it, this large group will support you with a lot of enthusiasm and will also follow you with some criticism. i see a team, yves, that has a lot of passion in this presidency and that's good. but europe also needs leadership that can speak with authority and - if you will not excuse me - i hope, along with many others, that there will soon be a new belgian government to take over that torch.
mr president, i promised myself not to react to mr farage's provocations, but i cannot help but mention talleyrand, that great man who considered that anything excessive was despicable. that being said, hello, mr prime minister, hello, mr president, welcome to us, welcome to you. today, belgium, whether it holds the presidency of the union or not, has always placed very high its european and community ambition. the two go hand in hand in our country, almost unanimously. mr schulz and others called him back today. this was already the case in 2001, during our previous presidency, whose main architects, guy verhofstadt and louis michel, are in this room: the presidency of the laeken declaration, the presidency of the convention, the one which, in essence, laid the foundations for the lisbon treaty. and if this score is written, now since december 2009, it is up to you, mr. leterme, to interpret it as conductor, and it is clear that this melody has had some hiccups, in the last six months, between its main headlines, i would say. on the institutional side, what is important for you is to refine the melody so that this triumvirate learns to work better together and in good understanding with the member states. the credibility of europe is at stake here, through its efficiency. and the example, the counter-example i should say, the most symbolic, is the copenhagen quack. there's no more going to cancun at ten or so. europe needs a voice, a position and, this time, concrete objectives. i know that this is another debate, but it is essential and you have mentioned it. beyond that, the figures and priorities are dictated by the crisis: financial regulation, economic governance, return to growth, which brings me to the debate on the financial perspective, the means of our action, the means of recovery, the means of growth. i would like to say, mr leterme, and i will conclude by saying this, that the belgians are not waiting for the commission's proposal to show ambition and firmness on principles. we don't grow with savings alone. it would be dramatic, even suicidal, if the crisis were used as an alibi to shut down the taps a little more. an ambitious europe, and these are your opening words, mr president, is a europe which, here too, puts the imagination to work.
mr. prime minister, i hope by now you've understood that you have an opportunity to score a goal early in the game. i am, of course, referring to financial supervision. you have seen that there is an overwhelming majority in this house in favour of the establishment of a european policeman of the financial markets, whose actors are also very largely european. the council has so far defended a line which amounts, roughly, to maintaining the status quo, as if nothing had happened since 2008. only national egos seem to prevail on the model, unfortunately all too well known in our country, of wat wij zelf doen, doen we beter... if we want an operational agreement on 1 january 2011, the council will have to act, act strongly and act quickly. and if that means, as mr verhofstadt said, that the council must vote by qualified majority, then so be it. we did not adopt the treaty of lisbon to fall back immediately into the dictatorship of unanimity. given the circumstances, we have the opportunity to have a full-time rotating presidency, it has been said. so you have everything in your power to deny the prophets of evil fortune and make this presidency a success.
mr president, mr prime minister, in the last few days condolences have been pouring in. you have shot yourself in the foot, you have entered a presidency with a resigning government, the treaty of lisbon has, in any case, changed the game, the rotating presidencies have nothing to say and the last thing we hear is: 'thankfully, you have van rompuy'. to all these sympathetic messages, i reply that in the land of surrealism, magritte and the smurfs, nothing is impossible. mr. farage is a man of few imaginations. there you go! much more seriously, the work undertaken in recent months by the belgian federal structure and its regional governments will give this presidency the solidity it needs. there's no risk about it. the role of the rotating presidency is, after all, a kind of subsidiarity. let me explain: belgium must add value to what the council or the high representative is doing. that is where you have a real boulevard because, although i have heard herman van rompuy speak, time and again, about reassuring the financial markets, i have not heard him speak about reassuring the citizens. they're worried. they expect europe to provide a community response to the crisis in terms of financial regulation, job creation, green growth with projects, investments, supporting means and, in the end, a social breath and a european dynamism. i think that the strong belgian social traditions and your generous vision of cooperation and africa will inspire the european institutions, if not supply them with the saltpeter, which is, mr president, the favourite food of the smurfs.
president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, the circumstances in which the presidency is starting up are not ideal, but at the same time they are an opportunity to focus on the real task of a presidency under the new institutional rules. but i also see an opportunity to help steer the institutional debate, not only in our country but also in other eu countries. you know that the role of the nation states is increasingly being questioned by globalisation. the european parliament has been given more powers, and rightly so, which means that more powers can be transferred to flanders, wallonia, scotland, catalonia and others. this is a natural process which europe is well aware of. it is also quite logical that these nations should claim their place at the european table, since they play an important role in economic recovery. during this presidency, regional ministers will also chair council formations such as environment, sport, education, regional policy, and i hope that this can be a start to the necessary, more robust multilevel governance of the eu.
mr president, the crisis we are going through is the end of a model. while in recent months political priorities have been focused on the many anti-crisis measures to protect employment, to provide a long-delayed recovery and then to stabilise the euro area, we have arrived - it must be said - at a moment in our common history, albeit a delicate one, but above all crucial for our future. we have an incredible opportunity here, driven by circumstances, to dare to imagine solutions that were sometimes unthinkable just a few months ago, such as the famous concept of european economic governance. it is time to develop a real strategy for overcoming the crisis and to initiate structural reforms to build the post-crisis society. we must dare to take concrete measures in the budgetary, wage and tax fields. there are no 36 solutions: to guarantee real cooperation and the necessary efficiency, we need greater integration and unconditional support for the community method. this is the ambition i would like to see not only reaffirmed by belgium but, above all, translated into concrete action in a very urgent way.
i am convinced that the belgian presidency will surprise europe in a pleasant way, with some short-term successes, because the conditions are very good. it's been referred to. the swift file, the bank supervision and also the leverage fund file. it is logical, mr prime minister, that some eurosceptics and europolists, let us call them that, would not like to see this happen, of course, because they are terrified that europe will become stronger under the belgian presidency. it is particularly positive that you want to go above all for a stronger economy, stronger economic cooperation and above all for an action plan for more jobs. allow me, prime minister, to add one more point: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for the work he has done. it's a great binding agent. it is proven every day in south africa today. it is a link between regions, between countries and, above all, between groups of people, and i would say let us take the november council meeting on sport to make use of it and to put sport on the european agenda too. good luck to you, mr leterme!
the president, mr prime minister, i would first of all like to wish you and your team a very successful belgian presidency. a whole series of important priorities were reviewed during the debate. i would like to draw your attention to one very specific dossier which is of crucial importance for the european transport sector, for the further development of a good european transport infrastructure and for the achievement of our climate objectives, namely the eurovignette directive. it is a directive which we already discussed at first reading in march 2009 and which has been blocked in the council since then. however, it is important because we want to give member states the possibility of charging not only infrastructure costs to lorries using our roads, but also external costs such as noise, air pollution or congestion costs. this should lead to greater efficiency in the sector, help to reduce congestion and also provide member states with additional resources to reinvest in the transport system to make it more sustainable and contribute to additional economic growth. i would like to see your support for this directive.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to accept my request that my report be put to the vote by roll-call. i have informed my fellow shadow rapporteurs about this and i understand that they can support it. i believe that this will help to highlight the broad support for the report in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. thank you for your understanding.
in writing. i am very pleased with the vote on the draft regulation on novel foods. whether it is food products derived from cloned animals and their offspring or food products produced by nanotechnology, parliament has put the precautionary principle first. we do not have enough scientific knowledge and risk studies to allow these new ingredients in our food! i believe that we must support research and technological development. and i do not support the food fundamentalism that drives us to demand, some to demand, zero risk giving rise to sometimes excessive safety standards. in this case, however, i think we should be very careful, as european citizens asked in the 2008 eurobarometer survey. 65% of them said that they were mostly opposed to the consumption of cloned animals. finally, and not least, animal cloning is often associated with animal suffering. just remember the sheep dolly. in this respect, is our food supply so limited as to justify such practices?
in writing. the aim of this regulation is to define rules to regulate 'new foods' that may end up on the european consumer's plate. and the commission's proposal is far from satisfactory, mainly on two points. firstly, the health effects of nanotechnologies, which are too little known and therefore need to be subject to more specific control before they enter the market. this is already the case with cosmetics, but it is not the case with our food. secondly, food derived from cloned animals or their offspring, for which the commission and the council would not wish to grant specific treatment on the grounds that there is no evidence of a risk to the health of the consumer. it is simply unacceptable. even if we are not talking about the direct consumption of cloned animals, we want to remove these foods from the scope of the regulation and above all we want to see a public and transparent debate on this issue, which concerns both farmers and consumers. these are ethical questions which deserve to be asked in the name of a model of production and consumption which it is our duty to preserve.
in writing. once again, the european parliament rightly opposed the council. it is not possible, in the present state of our knowledge, to approve the placing on the market of cloned animals or even of their descendants. the council decides to ignore the recommendations of the european bioethics committee and efsa of 2008. there are too few scientific studies on the potential consequences for consumers and cloning procedures are not yet developed; many cloned animals die prematurely from malformations or deficiencies (cardiovascular, liver, respiratory, immune ...). in addition, cloning would reduce genetic diversity within the herd; it seriously threatens the european agricultural model, based on the quality of products, respect for the environment and strict animal welfare rules. we must ensure that consumers have meat of a quality that is beyond doubt. that is why my colleagues and i voted against the marketing of cloned animals or even their descendants.
in writing. - this directive on industrial emissions and integrated pollution prevention and control is incredibly important for the air quality of all europeans. the member states are now playing a very uneven game. some do their best, some don't at all. it is therefore regrettable that countries such as italy and the united kingdom have prevented the council from making the necessary improvements. i voted for the final text because it represents a clear tightening up, albeit with possibilities that can be spread over a period of 12 years. but the end result will be that coal-fired power stations in britain and italy, and elsewhere in europe, will also have to meet strict standards in order to ensure the health of our citizens in all the member states of europe. and that's what it's all about, in the end.
in writing. the plundering of tropical forests is a global scourge. and the european union, the second largest importer of timber after china, bears a heavy responsibility for the annual destruction of the world's 13 million hectares of forest. in addition to the ecological disaster, the lives of 350 million people and thousands of species are directly threatened. europe had to make a strong move. this is done with the adoption today by the european parliament of legislation which will oblige importers of timber to prove the legal origin of their goods. it thus puts an end to the system of impunity which has prevailed until now. a traceability system is now in place, from the concession where the tree was cut to the final delivery of the product. europe is on the right track. i welcome, for example, the recent signing of a partnership agreement with the republic of congo for the reform of its forestry sector. with one of the world's three major tropical rainforests, this friendly country is particularly vulnerable to illegal trade. the european union must now transform the test and encourage companies in the sector to increasingly turn to the import of wood certified by labels.
rapporteur. − mr president, first of all i want to thank elmar brok and roberto gualtieri, who were co-rapporteurs and who have also conducted the negotiations with mrs ashton, with the commission and with the council. the service has now been established, and i think that we can say that we have a good result that all the institutions can support and be proud of. i say this despite the remarks made yesterday by the french prime minister, mr fillon. he said that the service cannot go beyond certain red lines: the red lines of france. i have to say to mr fillon: ‘vous êtes trop tard’ – you are too late, because with this agreement on the service we went far beyond the red lines of france. this was no accident, but simply the full use and implementation of the lisbon treaty. it is foreseen in the lisbon treaty, which has been ratified by france, to pool foreign policy in the future in the union. what we need is not une bataille arrière-garde over the service, as the service is now there. what we need now is to use the service to develop a real eu foreign policy because – let us be honest – until now we have not had a real eu foreign policy at all. i remember when i was a member of the council in 2002 we spent all of 50 seconds on the iraq war, which was at that time the biggest foreign policy issue. europe at that time was not capable of discussing it, or of having a common position on it. we must not repeat that, certainly not in the multipolar world of today. continuing like that is not an option. it will be up to mrs ashton, and that is our message today. the service will need clear direction and will need leadership. the treaty has given mrs ashton many powers to do this. she has the right to convene a foreign affairs council, even at short notice. she has the power to take initiatives because she is also vice-president of the commission. she also has the responsibility to produce the general guidelines setting out the strategic interests of our union, and all of these responsibilities fall on her and her service. mrs ashton, allow me to give you one piece of advice at the end of this whole process of negotiation: develop the service as a community instrument. the union’s successes have been built on the tried and tested method which is the community method. only where the community method is applied have we made progress and had success. look, for example, at the single market. where it has not been applied we have had stagnation and even regression. look, for example, at the union’s response to the financial crisis. it is only through this method that we can succeed. it will be through the formulation of what i call a real ‘union interest’, free from member state interference, that a foreign policy of the union can be developed. it is by using the skills and expertise that you will have at your disposal that this real union interest will be identified. it will then be for mrs ashton to defend naturally this union interest because, in my opinion and the opinion of this parliament, what is good for the union is good for its member states and is also good for its citizens.
mr president, it is good that the european parliament is given a certain say in the european external action service. the control is now primarily carried out through the budget and the high representative for foreign affairs will be accountable to parliament for the rest. in fact, it is the most normal thing in the world in a democratic system or what a democratic system should be. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we can now have a european diplomatic service, but if there is no common vision of foreign policy among the member states, then of course that service will remain largely empty shell. so the message is to be realistic, but i fear we are not all on the same page here, especially when i find an article on the website of our parliament entitled 'european parliament brings new diplomatic service closer to the citizens'. unfortunately, it does not explain exactly how this happens, but it is precisely because of this kind of hollow propaganda that more and more people in the european union are turning their backs on the eu.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would first like to thank all the members who took part in the debate for their support for mr brok and mr gualtieri and for my own support, which has enabled us to achieve a result in these negotiations. i simply want to say that i do not understand how some people can claim that it is the nation states that should be exclusively responsible for foreign policy. what the hell century are they living in? as if terrorism stops at the borders of member states, of nations! the same goes for climate change: how can we approach climate change issues by arguing that it is the nation states that can discuss it, not europe? and for migration and migration flows, it's the same. i sometimes get the impression that many of my colleagues who are a little sceptical about this service are still living in the 19th century, when the nation states decided everything: the balance of power between the nations in europe. we live in a different world, mr. president. it is a multipolar world where europe has a say because otherwise we have nothing to say on these issues. there's a second element that kind of shocks me. i hear "it's going to cost the taxpayer money". on the contrary, mr president, this external action service will save money, because it will give several member states of the european union the opportunity to reduce their consular services in many countries in the world. so it's a tool to save money. and thirdly, i think this is a start. the external action service is the diplomatic service we need to implement the european union's external policy. i have always thought that we should start with a diplomatic service before we have a union foreign policy. without this service, we're not going to get anywhere with 27 different voices. we also know the next step, which is to work more on european defence. if we have european diplomacy without european defence, something is missing. so, mrs ashton, we already know the next workplace for the european institutions. it is a question of ensuring that there is a real european defence in the future.
president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, commissioner, commissioner, i thank the commission for the coherent and clear five-point plan presented today. i think this is very good and i trust that parliament will be happy to cooperate with it, particularly with regard to the moratorium, particularly with regard to updating and revising the legislation, particularly with regard to monitoring the controllers, particularly with regard to reviewing and strengthening the emergency plans, particularly with regard to greater transparency, for example by asking the member states to put all the results of their inspections on a website so that everyone can follow them. i would also like to address the belgian presidency. i would like to speak to mr magnette. i thank him for agreeing to work with us. but i have a tip for him, too. the ospar conference is being held this autumn in september. there will be a ministerial statement on safety at sea and i think that you, mr minister, should use that meeting to ensure that in that ministerial conference there are sufficient guarantees for an independent evaluation of what has happened, an independent and transparent evaluation of the existing regulations. i think you could do a lot of work there.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. see minutes the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 8 july 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the entry into force of the convention on cluster munitions on 1 august 2010 and the role of the european union in this regard (2010/2772 ((rsp)).
mrs ashton, how are you going to get the 16 countries to ratify by august 1st?
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. see minutes the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 8 july 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, commissioner, i would also like to thank and congratulate our colleague, mr george lyon, on his excellent report, which is a positive first step towards a reform of the cap. the ambition of the new cap is that of a major european agricultural, food, social and environmental policy, not a market-oriented europe at all. we want it to be more legitimate in the public resources committed and accepted by the taxpayer, more equitable in the distribution of european funds between the 27 member states and between farmers, and more efficient in the proper use of public funds. new public mechanisms for regulating agricultural production will have to be put in place to ensure food security for consumers. we are in favour of a strong cap with the budget necessary to achieve its objectives. the report by mr lyon therefore rightly points to the emergence of new challenges facing the cap: climate change, water management, renewable energy, biodiversity, soil erosion, among others. the report calls for a more responsible, simpler cap, more effective in meeting the needs of european farmers, in the interests of consistency and sustainability... (the president withdrew)
mr president, commissioner, at its meeting on 4 may 2010, the college of commissioners decided to relaunch negotiations for an association agreement between the european union and the mercosur countries. there is every reason to believe that if these negotiations lead to an agreement, european agricultural producers will face major problems, particularly in the beef, poultry, cereals and fruit and vegetable sectors. indirect adverse effects could also result for other sectors, such as pigmeat. i would like to warn against the unfair competition that this third integrated market in the world could bring. while europe is pioneering in health, hygiene, traceability, environmental and social standards, imposing very stringent conditions on european producers, the production of beef - especially brazilian beef, for example - still reveals veterinary and health deficiencies. by accepting imports from mercosur countries which do not meet european standards, we risk having to assume a heavy responsibility in defending the interests of our consumers and penalizing european producers by the practice of double standards. i would ask you, commissioner, to be very careful in this respect.
in writing. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the new eu-us agreement on the processing and transfer of financial data for the purposes of the terrorist financing monitoring programme, as i considered that the new proposal put forward by the commission offered increased guarantees to european citizens, in particular in terms of data protection. i believe that any transfer of european personal data to a third country for security purposes must respect procedural safeguards and the rights of the defence as well as comply with the applicable national and european data protection laws. a few months ago, the first version of the agreement was too vague and did not offer such guarantees. that's why we said no. today i am pleased that our proposals for improvement have been taken into account, namely, among other things, the establishment of a similar exchange system at european level and the guarantee that monitoring is entrusted to european officials who must be able to oppose the extraction of data on american soil.
author. madam president, behind the farai maguwu case lies the whole issue of diamond mining. zimbabwe is a voluntary member of the kimberley process, which allows signatories to sell diamonds on the international market as long as the trade does not finance armed conflict. but at the meeting in tel aviv on 20 and 21 june on the same kimberley process, the participants were unable to reach agreement on the following question: should not the issue of human rights also be included in the kimberley process? several international ngos have denounced human rights violations in zimbabwe's diamond mines, violations perpetrated by the security services. one of their informants was farai maguwu, director of a human rights research and development centre based in manicaland. maguwu was arrested on 3 june and has since been held in harsh conditions for allegedly endangering state security. this is clearly intolerable. the resolution calls for the immediate release of the convicted man, the 'demilitarisation' of mining, the inclusion of human rights clauses in the kimberley process and the redistribution of the diamond wealth to the people, for example through a sovereign fund dedicated to it. we also ask the commission and the council to be extremely vigilant on the issues of good governance and democracy in zimbabwe and in the dialogue, which is making little progress, with that country.
author. - madam president, in the case of maria lourdes afiuni in venezuela, is it the fight against corruption, which is the official version, or the persecution of a political opponent, which is the version of the new york times relayed by its correspondent, simon romero? the question certainly deserves to be asked, since such amalgamations are common in high-fat diets. but my group has withdrawn its signature from the compromise and is preparing to table a resolution on its own. i think you have tried to load the boat too much, ladies and gentlemen, and i do not want to bring the whole venezuelan regime down, which is what you are talking about, by means of this case, which i think should be clarified. what's this about? judge afiuni granted, through an exceptional procedure, relief to a banker who is accused of stealing $27 million from a state agency on the basis of a false import contract. she was arrested following this release and placed in custody. and it is true that the conditions of detention are absolutely appalling, as they are in all venezuelan prisons. but we're not doing a prison emergency here. so, that still doesn't make the judge a human rights activist - she never spoke out on this point. like you, i demand a fair and speedy trial with all the guarantees of the defence, the continuation of the fight against corruption within the judiciary, and the strict separation of politics and the judiciary. i grant you this, but i do not grant you the rest.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to apologise to my colleague, mr luís alves, who was the fictitious rapporteur for our group, but who, because of lost luggage, was unable to join us in time and asked me to take his place, which i gladly do. i would like to emphasize the excellent report by our colleague, mr josé bové, in which we are advocating fairer incomes for farmers and a more transparent and efficient food chain in europe, and i am also pleased with the compromise we agreed on in the committee on agriculture. indeed, following the serious milk crisis we faced in 2009 and the causes of which still persist today, it was necessary to identify the toxic factors responsible for the long descent to hell of this sector, which is not the only one in this case. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the financing of the common agricultural policy. while we fully recognise the importance of a supply chain where producers and consumers are no longer the big losers at either end of the chain, and while we have managed to find balanced solutions, it seems that alde and the epp are revising some of the fundamental paragraphs of the compromise amendments negotiated before the parliamentary recess. unfortunately, my speech is too short to give details of the paragraphs which would be rejected in the vote in plenary. but if i have to mention just one, it will be paragraph 21, which considers it necessary to prohibit the sale of goods below cost at union level. i find it scandalous that the alde and epp groups are calling into question this paragraph, which is fundamental for our farmers. how can we allow our agricultural products to be sold to the retail sector and, even more flagrantly, to the processing sector? how can anyone, by rejecting paragraph 41 of the report, question the relevance of the creation of an independent global regulatory agency against speculation in food commodities? i could also quote paragraph 52, which is particularly close to my heart because i carried it in my group with my colleague csaba tabajdi. that paragraph considers that preferential treatment should be granted to producer groups, agricultural cooperatives and smes when awarding public contracts in the food supply chain and therefore invites the commission to propose measures to that end. it was also the subject of a compromise which now seems to be called into question by both the epp and the alde. at a time when millions of people around the world are suffering from malnutrition, hunger, and speculation is aggravating the financial problems of families - speculation on wheat stocks following the fires that hit russia this summer is currently a vivid example - would the agribusiness lobbies have been right about what seems obvious to us all? i wonder what bad play we're playing. will the epp and alde allow the logic of the processors and distributors to prevail over the defence of producers who are now under threat? at a time when food security and food sovereignty are under threat, it is irresponsible towards our citizens and farmers to reverse our original motion for a resolution, which is urgent for our agriculture, a fundamental part of our society, if it is necessary to recall it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i propose that we throw a stone at iran. how can you accept this kind of barbaric treatment of a human being? did you know that in stoning, the man is buried up to his waist, the woman up to her chest, probably out of shame? the projectiles must be carefully selected, says the islamic penal code. average size is the rule. the projectiles must not be too large for one of them to kill, nor too small for them to be called pebbles. and the whole procedure should take a little less than half an hour. what about the reaction of hani ramadan, director of the islamic centre of geneva, who reassures us by saying that it is forbidden to insult the guilty and that after his death, we pray for him? what cynicism! what can we do in europe for the alleged perpetrator, mrs mohammadi? i propose the right of asylum in europe for sakineh mohammadi. i think that has not been proposed by anyone yet and that is something that we could add to the resolution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the debates in the committees on employment and on budgets have resulted in a well-constructed draft report. i welcome the contributions of the rapporteur to the debate on the future of the european globalisation adjustment fund, with, for example, the necessary involvement of the social partners in the preparation of the dossiers or the attention that must be paid to the smes that are subcontractors of the large sites where redundancies take place. i also think it is appropriate that the prospect of an independent fund with payment and commitment appropriations be seriously considered in the future. it is simply a question of providing the social europe we wish to see with the appropriate means. some people don't hear it in this ear. thus, a division vote was called to remove this passage. it would be very damaging to the debate if the report did not mention all the ways in which the financing of these funds could be improved. i therefore call on the members to continue to improve this tool without excluding any possible outcome, by voting in favour of paragraph 16 as a whole on this issue.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the state of the union means first of all looking back and learning the lessons of the past, and then looking to the future. let us be honest with ourselves and say that last year was a very difficult year for the union. it was a difficult year for the union because there were big problems, but little unity to solve those problems. greece was on the brink of collapse, the euro itself was under attack for months, and it took several months for the european governments to finally agree to save a member state and to save our common currency. it is therefore no surprise to me, nor, i think, to others here in parliament, that public confidence in europe has dropped dramatically. you can see this in the latest eurobarometer, which shows that less than half of our citizens think that their country’s membership is a good thing. trust in our institutions dropped last year to 42%. this is the state of the union today. that is alarming, but at the same time we have to recognise that it is not surprising. parliament urged european leaders many times to end the standstill on europe, to move forward, to quit protectionism and nationalism and to work on european solutions. that is also what the european citizens are asking for because, if you look at the same eurobarometer, you see that no less than 86% of the public want european economic governance. they believe that only the union can provide solutions to the financial and economic crisis. however, they do not see this happening today, and that is the reason for their disappointment in our union. i know that for the commission, too, it has been a difficult year, because in fact it has only been half a year. that is how long it has taken our capitals to realise that there is a new treaty and a new way of working, and also a new balance of power in the union. we can therefore say that today is the real start of the president of the commission’s second term. it is a second term that needs a new vision and also new answers. it is in any case time to change into a higher gear, and to realise important reforms now. from the point of view of our group, there are principally seven big, important reforms. the first thing to do is to finalise our response to the financial crisis. we have already produced legislation on capital requirements and on bonuses. we have the stress test, and last week we also reached an agreement on financial supervision, which is a good agreement, not least because leadership by the president of the european central bank guarantees a european approach to supervision. however, that does not mean that we are already there. far from it, i should say. we are not even half way. we still need the commission to come forward urgently with proposals on derivatives, on short-selling, on credit rating agencies, on banking resolution, on market abuse, on trading and on financial instruments. the second big task is that we need genuine european economic governance. last year showed that a common currency without a common economic policy simply does not make sense. that is a nonsensical situation – even worse, it is a dangerous situation. we cannot afford to be one union and at the same time to have 27 different economic strategies, as we do today. (applause)it is crystal clear that if we want the stability and growth pact and the new economic strategy to be a success, we need a serious carrot and stick approach, with proper sanctions. in my opinion – and i think in the opinion of the majority of this house – it is good that the council is thinking about this in connection with a task force, but that cannot replace the right of initiative of the commission, and the duty of the commission to come forward as fast as possible with a global legislative proposal on economic governance. (applause)i am pleased that you have announced that you will do this on 29 september. what happens in the council as well is not important. it is your task and it is your duty to do this on 29 september. that takes me to my third priority: the single market. we have an excellent report on this by mario monti, and our message is very simple: let us act on this report. because it is incomprehensible, for example, that today it still takes more than 40 hours to travel by train from central and eastern european countries to brussels, paris or amsterdam. how are these people supposed to feel connected to the european union? how can these markets be fully integrated? let us invest in trans-european networks. the fourth important priority, and maybe the most important message for today, concerns the budget and the new financial framework. let us be very clear about this. the aim of some national governments to reduce the budget by 20% or 30% is ridiculous at a time when what it needed is more european solutions. (applause)i can fully understand that, when confronted with a huge fiscal deficit, they want to cut their direct contributions to the union. that is a normal, spontaneous reaction. hence our proposal to replace these national contributions with european own resources. that takes me to the fifth priority: our credibility in the world. we have the external action service, but what we need now, and what we have asked lady ashton, the vice-president of the commission (it would be better if she were here), is also to develop a new strategy for the union. our external policy strategy is still based on a paper by javier solana dating from 2003. the world has changed since 2003, and our strategic framework should also be adapted and modernised. that brings me to climate change. in copenhagen we lost our leadership role, and the only way to make a difference in cancún is to regain that leadership. to regain our leadership one thing is necessary: to use one voice and promote one vision, and not 27 as we did in copenhagen. enfin, monsieur le président et mes chers collègues, je dois vous dire mon désarroi à propos de ce qui est fondamentalement, si vous me permettez ce mot, la raison d'être de notre union, c'est-à-dire la protection des libertés civiles et des droits humains, et ceci tant sans doute à l'extérieur de l'union, mais, ce qui est plus important encore, à l'intérieur de l'union européenne également. et je veux dire avec solennité que ce qui se passe en france, selon moi, est inacceptable. (applaudissements)mais ce n'est malheureusement pas un cas isolé. j'observe, comme beaucoup d'entre vous, que plusieurs gouvernements aujourd'hui, alors qu'ils sont confrontés à la crise économique, sombrent progressivement dans une sorte de tentation du populisme, de la xénophobie et même parfois du racisme. (applaudissements)en fait, ils instrumentalisent les inquiétudes et la peur de l'autre. ils stigmatisent les minorités. je dirais même qu'ils font des amalgames douteux autour de la migration. je le dis avec force, je trouve que cette attitude est incompatible avec les principes et les valeurs qui font de notre union une des plus belles et des plus grandes idées politiques que l'esprit et le cœur de l'homme aient fait naître. (applaudissements)monsieur le président, j'entends le dire avec force, les roms sont des citoyens européens, des citoyens à part entière. (applaudissements)nous ne pouvons jamais accepter que leurs droits soient violés, jamais, dans un monde en proie à toutes les incertitudes. je crois que cette europe doit rester un continent de liberté, de tolérance et de justice. et la commission, monsieur le président, gardienne des traités, doit réagir sans aucune concession. ce n'est pas son droit, c'est son devoir institutionnel. (applaudissements)
i voted against the parvanova report on the social integration of women from ethnic minorities because, like almost all politically correct initiatives of this kind, it is counterproductive. the curves that people take to avoid using the term islam, for example, are bordering on ridiculous. for example, it is recognised that women from ethnic minorities are discriminated against by men from the same minorities. it is said that violence cannot be justified on the basis of customs, traditions or religious considerations, but people are afraid to point the finger at the bitter spot and say what it is, namely that many principles held by islam cannot be integrated into our european society. as long as we as a european parliament remain in this phase of denial, all measures aimed at integrating women from muslim countries are doomed to failure in advance.
in writing. - i fully support the report on the development of the employment potential of a new sustainable economy. mrs schroedter refers to the ilo definition that a workplace is green if it contributes to sustainable business and a social europe. the commission's proposal is therefore more broadly based than the high-tech jobs in the energy and environmental management sectors to which the commission is referring. for example, it is an ambitious sustainable industrial policy, aimed at resource efficiency, with decent, well-paid jobs. it is recommended that the involvement of industry be strengthened or that regional authorities be encouraged to adapt legislative frameworks, market-economy mechanisms, subsidies and public procurement to this end. the commission has also proposed that the newly created jobs should be created by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs, by the creation of new jobs. production pressures in the new sectors are quite high and the tendency to guarantee good working conditions is low. this makes it difficult for workers in traditional industries with a tradition of good social protection to be motivated to make the switch. the union has an obligation to combat global warming and therefore a good strategy is needed for a socially responsible transformation towards a greener economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it tackles the problem of unequal distribution of profits in the food chain, with a particular focus on ensuring a fair income for farmers. the average income of eu-27 farmers fell by more than 12% in 2009 while consumers see stable or even higher prices for the final products they buy, reflecting the lack of transparency in price setting along the food chain and the increasing volatility of raw material prices. the commission is therefore calling for greater transparency in the food chain to put an end to the abusive practices of the supermarkets and the processing industry!
in writing. - i enthusiastically endorsed the report by josé bové on fair incomes for farmers and a better functioning food supply chain. there is a huge difference between the price the farmer gets for his products and what the consumer ultimately pays for them. where that difference remains is entirely unclear. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the price of food is set in a transparent manner, both for the farmer and the consumer. the report calls on the commission to identify the real costs of production of farmers and the price they receive for their products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food chain is not affected by the food crisis. farmers must not be the victims of opaque price agreements by supermarket chains. farmers' bargaining power is strengthened when it is clear how much profit intermediaries and supermarket chains make on a given product. moreover, a more transparent system can curb the abuse of power by supermarket chains to set prices. transparency and fair competition also make the food chain more sustainable. what is happening is that flanders is importing tomatoes from spain and spain is importing tomatoes from flanders. a better understanding of prices and profit margins can help to prevent these inefficient and environmentally harmful practices.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of my colleague josé bové's excellent report, through which we are advocating fairer incomes for our farmers and a more transparent and efficient food chain in europe. however, i regret the majority position of the epp and the alde, which, in returning to the compromise amendments negotiated several months ago, rejected certain fundamental paragraphs of this report. in fact, by rejecting in particular paragraph 52 which prohibits preferential treatment of producer groups, agricultural cooperatives and smes in the award of contracts, no doubt is left; it is now clear that the interests of the distribution and processing sectors have been privileged to the detriment of our producers.
in writing. i voted for this report because it is about the value of assessing social inclusion policies in the eu for women who belong to ethnic minority groups and identifying where they work and where there are problems to try to develop solutions. we live in a multicultural society that includes different cultural, ethnic and religious communities. to this end, it is useful that integration policies for third-country nationals include a broader gender perspective, which is necessary to ensure that the specific needs of women from minority ethnic groups are taken into account. a targeted approach to the social inclusion of women belonging to ethnic minorities is necessary to avoid multiple discrimination, stereotyping, stigmatisation and ethnic segregation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the ageing of our societies is too often perceived in negative terms, even though older people are an economic asset and an indispensable source of experience. in addition, older people are at higher risk of poverty than the general population: the poverty risk rate for people aged 65 and over was around 19% in the eu-27 in 2008, compared to 17% in 2000. i believe that a comprehensive and multidisciplinary approach to ageing is needed, as well as the creation of new opportunities, particularly in the area of products and services adapted to the needs of older people and informal family carers who care for dependent people. the commission should therefore be asked to propose an action plan containing these various measures by the end of 2011.
mr president, when i was a correspondent in eastern europe, i saw the problems of the roma. it was a gigantic social problem, for which the socialist regimes of the time had no solution. now europe is facing it. it is too easy to look at the plight of roma through the prism of racism or xenophobia, as the left does now. people travelling in groups in caravans across europe without regular income are causing a nuisance in the long run. that's inevitable, because where are these people going to live? there is free movement of persons in europe and that is a great asset. but those who exercise this right also have duties, and parliament does not speak much about that. the first duty is to cause no inconvenience. roma women are put out on the streets by men to beg. what about women's rights in the roma community? i see children begging. but they have to go to school, and what about compulsory education? when there is crime, ordinary citizens are the victims. political leaders on the left are usually not victims; they live in ivory towers. to understand the problems, i call on them: be hospitable and take a roma family into your home.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, madam commissioner, allow me to congratulate you on your commitment. you certainly lived up to your end of the bargain. that said, there is still so much to be done and there is a kind of divorce between pakistan and public opinion. the picture is blurred, people don't want to give money, and that's a real problem. the audience is pretty much deserted today and i get a response sometimes like "oh, in pakistan, you know, there's nothing left, the water is coming down". well, the waters are receding and yet we are facing one of the most important disasters, as important as the tsunami. there are two things i'm sensitive to. first, improving our early intervention mechanisms. you did the best you could, the coordination, and so on, and with the funds you had. that's not a criticism at all. but i think it is in europe's interest to strengthen its rapid reaction mechanisms somewhat in the manner of the belgian b-fast and i urge the belgian presidency to work on this subject in consultation with the commission. the second point is the problem of women. i have already said, commissioner, that these are often the forgotten victims of conflicts and disasters. we know what the fate of pakistani women is. we know that today, as i speak to you, there are 300,000 women who are going to have to give birth in the next few weeks. we know that 30,000 of them will require surgery, and i implore you, i say to you, "take targeted action on this problem". there are local ngos that have access to pretty much everywhere in the field and for example they are associated with the international planned parenthood federation. look for local agreements and let us know about that. we are not asking you for accounts, commissioner, but we are asking you for news about these women. i hope you can give us some.
madam president, madam commissioner, i would of course like to commend you, madam commissioner, for the considerable work you have done. thanks to your action, the countries of the european union have mobilised eur 230 million in emergency aid, including eur 70 million from european funds. that said, it's remarkable, it's wonderful. your presence there is also a testament to the fact that you have really taken the issue to heart. i would like to begin by joining my voice to all that has been said here: the women's problem, the health problem, also the political problem - because there is also the risk of throwing this country into the hands of extremists. i would like to remind you - and this has been said before, and unfortunately we can only repeat it - that we must urgently set up a european civil protection mobilisation capacity. i have already had the opportunity to say this on several occasions, particularly during the earthquake in haiti. the barnier report is a perfect inspiration for the establishment of this mechanism. i would like to ask you specifically what your intentions are in this regard.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. commissioner, you yourself have provided such a tool, the media pluralism monitor, with objective indicators, which was developed by the european commission. it is now up to the european commission, among others, to implement this monitoring, and we expect you to do the same. the second instrument is the recommendations of the council of europe. the commission has already made a number of recommendations on the standards of freedom of the press, the independent management of public service broadcasting and the stability of funding. all 27 member states of the european union have endorsed these standards, so it is useful to remind member states that they must also fulfil their commitment in this area. it is also our duty to point them out. by 'us' i mean the european parliament. we will do so in the near future, among other things, in a new resolution on the future of public service broadcasting in the digital age, a resolution which we will be presenting to this hemisphere next month or the month after. we shall expressly ask the commission and the member states to examine this specifically. finally, we cannot accept that press freedom is being undermined anywhere in europe, and that is why vigilance is needed, vigilance by this parliament. i therefore think it is useful to remind the member states of this in good time and through the commission and through this parliament.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the conclusions of the special ecofin council of 7 september.
president. - mr reynders, i hope you are well. as far as the bank levy is concerned, i have no problem with it at all. i'm just wondering how that's supposed to work in practice. it reminds me of a bus, everybody's for the bus, but everybody wants to go in a different direction. as for the financial transaction tax, i think it is a good example of a bad idea. it is actually a kind of european tobin tax, we do not call it a tobin tax any more, because tobin is now against his own tax. it drives capital away, and sweden has been a very good example of that. it also raises the question: what do we do with the revenue? are we going to use it for eu own resources? there's a lot of controversy about that, so my advice, mr. reynders, is: it's very well-intentioned, but stop it. put the plan in the fridge, or better yet, in the freezer. we certainly shouldn't have a lone star. and then i come back to what mr schulz said - he is not listening - yesterday he said that he wants to force the european commission to take an initiative on the financial transaction tax, he wants to bring that menschen auf die strasse. i would say, do not do that, we will take a european citizens' initiative against this tax, because it is the ordinary man in the street who has to pay the tax.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading of the committee on agriculture and rural development on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes (06106/1/2010 c7-0147/2010 2008/0211 (cod)) (rapporteur: elisabeth jeggle) (a7-0230/2010).
mr president, i think we can all agree that in an ideal world there would be no need for animal research. but the reality we know is that we live in a world of suffering, where men, women, children, sick, are waiting for treatment and therefore for the results of this research, which is vital, which is crucial. that is why we must support the excellent compromise reached by mrs jeggle of the committee on agriculture and the council. the agreement limits - and this has been said - the maximum possible suffering of animals, while not stopping this research, which is vital for millions of patients in europe and around the world. do you know that 70 percent of the nobel prizes in medicine have been won for work based on animal experimentation? we are not being asked to choose between mice and men here: this directive protects both patients and animals. this directive protects our future.
in writing. i am pleased that this report has been adopted, because from now on experiments on great apes such as chimpanzees, gorillas and orangutans will be strictly prohibited. the text also provides that animal testing should be replaced, as far as possible, by a scientifically satisfactory alternative method. the report also calls for the pain and suffering inflicted on animals to be reduced to a minimum. from now on, the use of animals will be restricted to experiments aimed at advancing research in humans, animals and diseases (cancers, multiple sclerosis, alzheimer's and parkinson's diseases). the adoption of this report is a further step in the protection and welfare of animals used for scientific purposes.
in writing. - i regret that the three proposals by the greens to amend the directive and allow for stricter national rules, to give impetus to alternative testing methods, and to further restrict the use of primates, were rejected by a majority of parliament. the new legislation on animal testing is seriously flawed. member states are no longer free to adopt stricter rules on animal testing. this restriction of national policy freedom serves no useful purpose. animals are the victims of the equalization dogma of the internal market. however, it is important that member states dare to take the lead. without national leaders, many european animal welfare rules, such as the ban on animal testing for cosmetics, would never have been put in place. the new directive improves the control of establishments and establishments breeding, trading or using laboratory animals. however, the requirement to use alternative test methods when available is less stringent than in the old directive. that is a missed opportunity to reduce animal suffering and improve the quality of research. the new rules ignore the progress made in developing alternatives to animal testing, which are often more reliable than animal testing.
in writing. the situation of the labour markets is the major concern of our citizens. the labour market continues to deteriorate with the unemployment rate now peaking at 9.8%. the employment guidelines are an essential instrument for driving forward structural reforms and measuring the impact of the reforms to be implemented, both in the context of the 2020 strategy and in the context of the new economic policy coordination that is being put in place. it is therefore crucial to address these issues but it is also crucial to ensure maximum ownership of the reforms. it's one thing to have guidelines. but it is another thing to see them properly implemented by the member states! to this end, i believe it is essential to reaffirm the role of epsco in the 2020 strategy and in economic governance and to ensure that epsco is fully involved in the reforms to be undertaken to ensure the sustainability of our social model and the optimal economic governance of the eu. i am convinced that there is an urgent need to rebalance the employment and social pillar in european decision-making.
in writing. − despite some encouraging signs of a return to growth, the economic situation remains fragile. europe must therefore ensure a sustainable recovery, strengthen the job creation potential of european economies and help people get a job. the opinion of the report on the employment guidelines is clear: more women, older people and young people in work, less poverty and better education. that is what the eu wants to achieve by 2020. that is why i support the report. it includes measures to better combine work and care, for example through flexible working hours and accessible childcare. that is a concrete policy which will allow more women to enter the labour market. the house also wants eu countries to improve their social security and provide decent incomes so that poverty is reduced and work pays. finally, the further pursuit of the objectives of cohesion policy will eliminate socioeconomic disparities between member states and between regions. if the commission now strictly ensures that countries actually base their policies on the guidelines, the european intentions for 2020 will not be mere words.
in writing. there are times when words are trivial in the face of barbarism, in the face of shame, in the face of contempt for the most basic human values. in the face of the weight of the obscurantists' stones, their weight today brings together the democrats of the world to save sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani. since the mullahs reinstated stoning in 1979, 300 people have been massacred, there is no other term, after mock trials. not to mention the hangings of minors, homosexuals, dissidents. among them are baha'is whose only crime is that they do not share the religion of the regime in power in tehran. the weight of our words, therefore, the weight of this international mobilization to which the european parliament has just joined in voting this afternoon. sakineh's beautiful face now embodies the struggle for women's rights in iran, and beyond that, the defense of all victims of oppression.
mr president, i have no rule of procedure to invoke. i just wanted to inform you, because it is crucial information, that the iranian foreign minister has just announced that he has suspended the sentence of stoning of mrs sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani. we have all fought in this parliament, the democratic forces of the world are fighting for much more than a suspension, for his sentence to be commuted. this is a start and we will continue to mobilize. i'm sorry, but i think this information should have been shared.
author. − mr president, since i co-signed the oral question to the commission on the new israeli ‘ngo transparency bill’ – as it is referred to by the israeli ngo which calls itself ngo monitor – the bill has been considerably softened, as franziska brantner has just explained. my group and i welcome these changes. it is no longer required of all recipients of foreign funding for the purpose of political activities in israel to register under the ‘political party’ register. it seems that these organisations are no longer at risk of losing their tax exemption status, and potential breaches of the law would be punished by a fine. as i said, these changes are to be welcomed. the israeli authorities and a number of israeli ngos may not have liked our reaction to the original bill, but, as we have seen, our actions have had effect. having said this, the aim of the present draft still raises concern. firstly, it seems to be directed at intimidating the eu and its member states. in the background note that we received from the ngo which i already mentioned (israeli ngo monitor), we read the following, and i quote: ‘the eu and the member states channel tens of millions of euros annually to a narrow group of highly-politicised israeli ngos through non-transparent processes. the degree to which european states are using ngo funding to influence israeli political and public debates has no parallel in relations among democracies. therefore greater transparency regarding foreign government funding is central to the israeli democratic process and the public’s right to know.’ needless to say a number of those allegations are absolutely untrue but they are very revealing. they reveal how strong the distrust is between a number of israeli opinion makers and the eu and we need to do something about it. they also reveal how embattled important segments of israeli public opinion feel; that is also a matter of concern. both elements make a peaceful solution in the middle east even more difficult than it already is. my question to you commissioner is: what do you intend to do about this to improve the situation?
author. - mr president, the goldstone report has had an unexpected fate. it was intended to establish the truth about possible war crimes during operation cast lead in december 2008 and in fact it caused an outcry in israel. judge goldstone was personally attacked and ngos who had the courage to testify were targeted. soon after this media storm, a set of bills aimed at giving ngos more control and weakening any opposition to government policy emerged. among them was a draft law on ngos which was originally intended to treat them as political organisations and not exempt them from taxation. secondly, a bill to criminalise the boycott of israeli products, even if they are products from the settlements, including whether the one who initiates the boycott is a government, an association or a citizen of foreign origin. clearly, if a frenchman launches a slogan of boycott of settlement products on the internet, he can be condemned; if the palestinian authority does the same, it will have the same treatment. thirdly, a bill on universal jurisdiction, which gives israel jurisdiction to judge such cases. various other projects restricting freedom of expression or movement are under way. it is impossible to enumerate them, but they converge and they are worrying. they are a direct attack on freedom of expression, an inalienable human right, a corollary of any democracy. that the ngo law has been amended by the knesset to the point of being almost acceptable to the ngos themselves is a good thing. may the other bills suffer the same fate, especially the boycott bill, which will be submitted to the knesset for a first reading on 15 september. i would draw the commission's attention to this: if we can no longer say that we must not buy illegally imported products in europe under the terms of our agreements, it is as if we were prohibiting the purchase of counterfeit or stolen watches, for example, in a market. parliament will be following this matter closely. and in this connection i ask europe: what is it that we europeans are still doing in the israeli-palestinian peace process? where was our high representative? where are we in this important process?
mr president, i am sometimes surprised by the content of some of our debates here in parliament. that is the case today. what are we talking about? what's on the agenda? not the goldstone report. not the implants. not the "lead hardening" operation. but the title of the debate is "bill on israeli ngos", a bill that is still being debated today in the knesset, which has not yet voted on it. our parliament therefore demanded as early as last april that this subject be discussed as soon as it had been brought out of the israeli government's box, and even before the israeli members of parliament had had a chance to discuss it. this is all the more condescending excuse me, but that's the term that this bill is today and that has been said considerably amended. it is an insult to the work of our colleagues in the knesset to think that it was our oral question here in this parliament that made the difference. this is a total disregard for the israeli mentality and the vitality of the democratic process, ngos and israeli parliamentarians. mr. pöttering was referring to a mission he had just completed in israel. i'm also coming back from israel, i came back this saturday. i have met with kadima mps, labour mps, some likud mps and i can assure you that they have been working with ngos on this issue for months. they didn't wait for us. so i don't understand: all the democracies in the world - and it's been said - are moving towards more transparency, more ethics, more accountability of public actors. this applies to governments, political parties - of course - the civil service, the member states too, the commission, our parliament, all follow the same process of transparency, a process which is all the more imperative and understandable when it comes to a region as troubled by the tragic conflict as we are experiencing there. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
mr president, i did not say that there was no influence, nor did mr de rossa think that it was our work and our work alone that had changed the course of events there. i am simply saying, having discussed this with the members there last week, that they had initiated the process of discussing and amending this bill well before and without our intervention. i think some of the comments we make here are particularly condescending and i would be remiss if i spoke for the ambassador who sent that communiqué yesterday. i don't think that's my role.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, as has been said, the situation of the dead sea and the jordan river is extremely worrying, as it is predicted that if there is no change in 2011, the river will simply dry up. if there is no movement at the international and regional level to stop this development, the situation will lead to an extraordinarily significant loss both for cultural heritage, for biodiversity - ms kratsa said - and also for security and economy in the region. i would like to introduce an ngo, which has had an initiative that i think is absolutely remarkable. this ngo, friends of the earth middle east, decided to bring together the palestinian, jordanian and israeli mayors who live along the river, to bring them together and get them to think about what they could do to fix things a little bit. the association and the mayors have produced some interesting studies on what each country could do and what the impact of these measures would be. it's everything from dry toilets to changing methods in agriculture, to changing the types of crops that are grown because they absorb too much water, and so on. there is a wide variety of measures that can be taken. so this is not a political debate, although we know very well that as soon as we talk about water in the region, it is political. i think that everyone can support this and i would like europe and the commission to draw inspiration from the very clear conclusions of this report in their relations with these countries, particularly through action plans. but there is a little paragraph that i care about very much, which is paragraph e, which says that there is over-exploitation of water by israeli settlers. it's true, it's proven by the world bank reports, by amnesty international, it puts us back in the heart of politics, but it's a truth that sometimes needs to be said. we do not make it the heart of the resolution but we do care a great deal about it.
mr president, thank you for allowing me to clarify a point which i did not have the opportunity to deal with earlier in a persuasive manner. on the question of water exploitation and over-exploitation of settlement water, i would like to refer my colleagues to the special report on the situation in the jordan valley of the euromed parliamentary assembly which itself quotes extensively from the world bank report entitled assessment of restrictions on palestinian water sector development and the amnesty international report on troubled waters, etc., which give the exact figures for this exploitation, which is four to five times as high among the israelis. and i have numbers one through six. now, that's factual, i apologize for that, and it's not documented by me.
i am surprised that in your statement - although you have given a very detailed and very interesting explanation - you have not actually said anything about the incident of this summer, which is the cause of the debate. the incident that occurred in scotland: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a number of bulls and cows born from embryos imported from the united states, reports that the meat of at least one bull has definitely entered the food chain and that some of that meat has allegedly ended up in my constituency in belgium. you have not said anything about that and i would actually like to hear your comments on that because this is an important matter. you yourself have said that part of the problem is that consumers have a right to know where their food comes from. well, some of my constituents didn't know that. they have eaten meat from those bulls born in scotland from imported embryos. so i'd like to hear some comments on that in your reply. you know that this whole debate is also connected with the conciliation we started the day before yesterday on the novel foods regulation, with kartika liotard as rapporteur. you know that we are in a great conflict with the council on this. i trust you are also well aware that in the whole conciliation procedure - which is due to end in november, perhaps early december, but at any rate around this time of year - the position the commission will take will be decisive for whether or not the result is good. in a previous debate in july you announced that you would be presenting a report, and i quote you in english: by november 2010; i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i hope, commissioner, that you and your services will be a little more forthcoming in taking a position on this problem, because we as negotiators will need that to reach an agreement with the council. you have also said little or nothing about the position of parliament, which is in favour of a moratorium. there are commissioners, your colleagues, who are currently lobbying our colleagues to say: i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. can you comment on that? finally, to those colleagues who say there is no public health problem at all: i am quite willing to believe all that, but i will stick with the efsa opinion for a moment, which says that there is no reason to doubt it, but that the scientific basis is still very thin, very weak. a piece of advice, i admit, from 2008. there will be new opinions, but i dare not wait for the new opinions before i dare to make a clear statement on this.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to express my deep concern. on the one hand, we europe advocate greater food transparency for consumers, we want to introduce traceability of animal meat from farming to the plate , so we impose very strict breeding and slaughter standards on farmers and controls to ensure the origin and quality of food as much as possible. and on the other hand, we learned this summer that british consumers had unknowingly eaten cloned beef. in my country, belgium, we have even tasted third-generation meat, which, we are told, has nothing to do with cloned meat. what kind of traceability are we talking about here? let me be humorous: as far as i'm concerned, the cloned beef bourguignon with the genetically modified carrots on my plate, i don't want that. and even more so if i didn't choose it. and in this, apparently, i really fit in with the most widespread european opinion, since all the eurobarometers on the question of cloned animals for food purposes affirm and reaffirm the very clear opposition of european citizens. that is the first argument i want to make against the presence of cloned animal products in the food chain: we cannot, on the one hand, advocate for greater consumer responsibility and wish that consumers should be better informed about what they eat and, on the other hand, refuse to hear that they do not want cloned meat on their plate. my second argument is about health. it is true that no scientific studies have proven any negative impact that the consumption of cloned meat, offspring of cloned meat or even milk from cloned meat could have. nothing has been proven, including the long-term safety of this consumption. i think the precautionary principle still applies. my third and final argument is ethical and you raised it yourself at the beginning of your speech. europe wants to be a leader in animal protection. this afternoon parliament voted in favour of limiting animal testing so that the pain and suffering inflicted on animals is kept to a minimum. but it is also true that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is enough to recall dolly, but also to mention the scientific opinion of the efsa of july 2008, which speaks of a significant proportion of cloned animals whose health and well-being are severely impaired, often with serious or even fatal consequences. mrs mcavan also spoke of the opinion of the european ethics group, which doubted that animal cloning for food purposes was ethically justified, especially since it was not justified by a need for food diversification. on the contrary, there is a concern that the promotion of a diet based on cloned animals may have an indirect effect on genetic diversity due to the excessive use of a limited number of animals in breeding programmes. in other food sectors, for example, dozens of tomato species have disappeared. there were 7,000 in 1900. only 150 of them remain today, of which 70 are commercially available, many of them genetically modified. is this the progress we want? that's the question we need to ask ourselves.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, commissioner, thank you for your reply and for your desire to establish a dialogue between users. but we in the group think that more is needed. you should know that we have always been critical of the postal directive. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. the two are closely linked. as regards the social dimension, we find that the ball has been thrown in the member states' court, but that little use is made of the possibilities for creating a level playing field between old monopolists and new players. this is a big mistake because competition is not based on innovation and innovative concepts but on cost reductions in the sector, where labour costs account for about 70% of production costs. in practice, we see postmen and women being replaced by people with precarious contracts, lower wages and greater insecurities. that is not the europe we want. the financing of a universal service, the obligation to guarantee a home order every working day, even in sparsely populated areas, has so far been paid for by the monopoly, in other words: large customers paid for the services provided to ordinary citizens. in practice, this will now have to be replaced by public support, and this in a context which will be very difficult in the budgetary terms in the coming years, and it is feared that this will come under pressure. i would therefore ask you the following, commissioner. would you agree with me that one of the main aims of the directive, namely to achieve greater social and territorial cohesion, will be difficult to achieve in this context? secondly, you refer to a report in 2013, but could you not commit yourself in the short term to a detailed analysis of the way in which the directive has been transposed in the member states and in particular to the two aspects i have mentioned, the social and the universal service? finally, how will the commission strengthen the social dialogue in the sector at european level and take initiatives to create a level playing field in social matters for all workers in the sector?
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, i am of course not disputing the democratic and transparent process which led to the adoption of these various directives on the opening up of the postal market. i do not deny that they must be enforced either, but i think it is equally democratic and transparent to assess the effects of a directive and the effects of its enforcement in practice at a given moment. i think there are probably nuances between member states but i do not think that we can speak of improving the service or making the postal service more accessible to european citizens. you said something about a reasoned and accompanied attitude. i think it is reasonable to say that what we are seeing is a concentration of private operators and therefore a kind of private oligopoly, whereas we wanted to dismantle a public monopoly to organise competition. i'm not sure the outcome is what we expected. you said you were going to be a process partner. what are the regulatory practices? i am glad that there is a group of regulators but i would like to be clear about good practice in terms of regulation, there are many flaws in the system. finally, on the question of european employment, i join my colleague el khadraoui in highlighting how new jobs are created as precarious jobs and job losses are rather the rule. i am glad that you are setting up a round table to have a dialogue between all the actors. if we want, as you wish, to reconcile the large market with the citizens, the post office is really an exercise in style to show that this is possible. but this requires first of all a case-by-case assessment of the results and effects observed on the ground today. these are not the goals you set or that others set. it is high time to assess the situation before continuing to run ahead and, precisely, to make an even greater gap between the european citizens and their postal services.
mr president, commissioner, i myself asked the commission last june about the negative effects of the liberalization of public services on consumers, pointing out that numerous investigations have revealed serious malfunctions, particularly in postal services, such as price increases, a decline in the quality of service and a lack of transparency. i would once again urge the commission to analyse not only the electricity market, as it did in early 2010, but also postal services, in order to determine to what extent consumers actually benefit from a liberalised market in terms of choice, price, quality, not to mention the analysis of the quality of employment in the postal services. it is no longer a question of making grand declarations about the benefits of liberalization. it is now high time to judge the facts before taking further steps to avoid repeating the serious mistakes already made in the other liberalized sectors in the postal services. i note the establishment of the user dialogue group, but as mr el khadraoui said before me, we must go further, we expect more from you, commissioner. the commission must stop this leakage.
i am surprised, mr president, at the frivolity with which the left in this parliament is playing around with terms such as collective expulsions, when it is a question of cases in france which have been assessed on an individual basis and when it is a question of people who have received a reward for voluntarily returning to their country of origin. it is true that a member state has the right and the duty to uphold the rule of law and to act against illegal immigration and the nuisance it causes. the key to solving the problems lies with the roma communities themselves. i refer to a note by the former dutch minister for integration, van der laan, a socialist, who states, among other things, that crime among the roma is disproportionately high, that school absenteeism is enormous, that children are being abused for begging and criminal activities. with this attitude, as the socialist van der laan put it, the roma put themselves outside dutch society. so there's work to be done. i know, mr president, that it is not popular to say this in this parliament, but roma people, like all other people, have not only rights but also duties.
in writing. the debate in the european parliament on the roma issue has turned into a political debate between the extreme left and the extreme right. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it is very clear that the roma community is discriminated against socially and economically in the vast majority of member states which have not necessarily made use of the means of integration which the union makes available. the roma community has rights, which are clearly being violated, but it also has duties, as any european citizen. the same applies to the member states, which have a duty to provide these european citizens with a place of welcome and conditions for their development. as regards the allegations against france, and pending the commission's decision on the illegality of the operations carried out, i condemn any mass expulsion not based on respect for european law. but i refuse to fall into the dubious amalgamations contained in the joint motion for a resolution, which is to compare the events of this summer to deportations. the reference to the nazi period is totally unacceptable!
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the welcoming of the sudanese president by the kenyan authorities last august is an opportunity for the european parliament, through our resolution this afternoon, to reaffirm some very strong principles that are very close to our hearts. kenya, like all other countries, is bound to respect international law. he should have facilitated the arrest of omar al-bashir, a leader - it has been said - who is the subject of an international arrest warrant issued by the icc for crimes against humanity, war crimes and genocide in darfur. darfur - do we need to remind you? - is over 300,000 innocent victims. that said, there are other african countries that have acted exactly the same way with the sudanese president: libya, qatar, saudi arabia, to name just a few. europe must therefore have only one policy, that of firmness, in the face of the de facto complicity of the african union, which has instructed its member states not to arrest the president. our parliament must remain vigilant and call on the european union, and in particular mrs ashton, to put this respect for international law and human rights above all other considerations, making it, of course, a high point on the agenda of the next eu/african union summit to be held on 29 and 30 november in libya.
author. - madam president, i join the voice of all the members who have insisted here that mr al maleh be released immediately. like we said, he's an old man. he is accused of crimes but in the name of articles of the criminal code which seem to us to be greatly exaggerated and, behind him, above all, there are other human rights defenders, there are other lawyers, there are other doctors whom we know well, who have passed through the european parliament and who were imprisoned afterwards, who are prisoners of conscience, and we cannot accept that from syria. i would like to quote because it is important, always, to quote the name the name of mr. al hassani, of mr. al-abdallah, of mr. labouani, who has been here. they're almost all friends. i would like to say very strongly that there are many things in syria that i would like to see shared elsewhere. and it's not a huge thing that i'm saying. there is real freedom of conscience and religion. there is a real effort in education and health. there is a real effort to take in iraqi refugees, palestinian refugees. there are potentials in this country, including on the international stage, that we cannot ignore. i would like to say to president bashar el assad that i know him well "president, you do not need these prisoners of conscience to be strong in your country and to be present on the international stage. you can afford to defend human rights too". i believe that we cannot keep only the face of systematic repression from syria. it exists, ladies and gentlemen, and we cannot deny it. but there is something else in syria and that is why, commissioner, we are so attached to this association agreement. we know that syria, for the time being, has pushed it back. keep us informed of the progress of the negotiations. we would like - at any rate many of us - for syria to play the positive role it is able to play on the international stage and for peace in the middle east.
author. - madam president, one may wonder whether syria is not finally getting used to the reproaches we make to it almost every year about human rights violations on its territory. we do not despair, however, to be heard and continue to expect progress, more progress - i hear that there is progress there - for all syrian citizens who aspire to greater freedom, including freedom of expression. our resolution today is particularly concerned with mr haytham al maleh, a tireless defender of human rights. this lawyer was sentenced to three years in prison after a mock trial for, i quote, "spreading false and exaggerated information that harmed national feelings". it's the text. our resolution therefore calls for the immediate release of mr haytham al maleh for the reasons we have just mentioned and also for what has been said, his old age and the very serious health problems he suffers from. more fundamentally, of course, we want to draw attention to the human rights violations in syria: executions - we mention them in our resolution - arrests, restrictions on a whole range of freedoms and all in the name of a state of emergency, by definition temporary, which has been going on and on for over forty years. we call on the european union to make these demands, which mrs ashton has mentioned and which are fundamental, and above all to use them as a means of pressure, discussion and negotiation in the context of the signing of the association agreement. we are moving away from what was called the "prague spring" more than a decade ago, in 2000, when bashar al-assad came to power, which had, in the space of just a few months, allowed for a glimmer of clarity for syrian civil society. it is time, i think, for syria to continue to implement all these necessary reforms if it is to give a good image of the major role we hope, we want to see it play in the region.
i would like to draw attention to the problem we have with turkey. as you know, the european commission has been trying for many years to conclude a readmission agreement with turkey, but it is facing systematic opposition from that country. the situation is unacceptable for two reasons. firstly, a candidate country should be expected to cooperate rather than oppose. and secondly, turkey is not just a neighbour of the european union. it is a country with a very large common border. turkey is also one of the largest and most important countries of origin and transit for illegal immigration. i can also refer to a recent note from europol, eurojust and frontex, which mentions turkey as one of the main transit countries for heroin trafficking from afghanistan, pakistan and the balkans. it is not just the drug trade that is at issue here, it is organized crime in general. the negotiations on the readmission agreement with turkey are reportedly proceeding somewhat better than in recent years, and yet we have to note that the turkish government is now beginning to put forward certain conditions which are totally unacceptable. wherever the european side talks about 'visa facilitation', the turkish government begins to talk about the opening of the borders, about the free movement of persons for people from turkey, which of course only aggravates the problem rather than offering the only solution to the existing problems.
mr president, if you listen to the members of this house, you will find that there is a great deal of consensus on urgency. that is true, of course, but we must have the courage to get to the heart of the matter. the united nations environment programme has calculated that investing in biodiversity can yield a lot: each euro can be recovered 3 to 75 times. this means that investing in biodiversity can also bring incredible economic value. but then we must have the courage to follow this approach consistently in all our sectors, including fisheries, agriculture and our structural funds. and in the field of agriculture we have made a lot of progress in the last ten or fifteen years, but we are still very far from the final objective. agriculture can, if it chooses, contribute to the promotion of biodiversity rather than destroying it. so not just life, but following this approach consistently in all possible sectors, that is actually the challenge we have to face within the whole european union.
i voted in favour of the amendment tabled by the epp group and against the kazak report, because it is perfectly possible to maintain the best possible trade relations with turkey without the country necessarily joining the european union. the rapporteur seems to be blind when he writes that the result of the recent referendum in turkey will boost democratization in that country. on the contrary, what is indisputable is that the islamists of the akp have finally won over the power base of their party. the islamization of the streets and of public life has opened the way to the total islamization of turkish public institutions. the amendments to the constitution are nothing more or less than a direct attack on the army and the constitutional court as the last secular institutions in turkey.
the report before us is actually quite balanced. i voted against it, however, because even this balanced report continues to assume that if we continue to give more and more money and aid to africa, and in particular black africa, then this continent will eventually make it. it may be politically correct to say this, but i fear it is not. if we look at the resources we have invested in black africa since the 1940s, we see that they amount to many hundreds of billions of dollars or euros, and the result today is only greater poverty and greater misery. i think we must continue to increase emergency aid and systematically reduce permanent aid. we must make sure that we stop the systematic flow of money from north africa to the rich countries. this illegal capital flight of the last 40 years amounts to some $1.8 trillion! what we could do with those resources for black africa is hard to imagine.
in writing. like 385 of my colleagues, i voted in favour of the eu-pakistan readmission agreement which sets out the rules for the return of persons in an irregular situation to the territory of the union. after eight years of negotiations between the commission and pakistan, this instrument is added to the other eleven readmission agreements which considerably strengthen the asylum and immigration policy which europe intends to adopt. a legal framework based on international law, including the principle of non-refoulement, is therefore needed: a person cannot be deported "to a state where his freedom would be threatened because of his race, religion, nationality, membership of a social group or political opinion". i would like to say to those who are against it that this agreement has at least the merit of being consistent and effective at community level. there is nothing to prevent states from concluding bilateral agreements. our migration policy is comprehensive, and includes the fight against illegal immigration which must be discouraged, wherever possible. this is the best way to protect the migrant candidates who want to join the european eldorado and who are most often victims of unscrupulous smugglers, trafficking of all kinds and economic exploitation.
in writing. - i have approved the report on trade and economic relations with turkey. this report clearly demonstrates the importance of trade between the eu and turkey. in 2008, it amounted to no less than eur 100 billion. the report points to the wound and rightly points out that there are still many problems to be solved. the present report summarises them without distinction. it is rightly reiterated that eu policy is aimed at promoting '... democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, ...'. turkey will also have to make efforts to fully respect trade union rights in accordance with eu standards and international labour organisation agreements, especially as regards the right to organise and strike and the right to collective agreements. but on the european side we must also take our responsibility for visa liberalisation, not only for truck drivers but also for business people, tourists, students and the elderly. our relationship with turkey must be fair, just and honest. that means that we must clearly keep repeating that the eu will honour the promise that turkey will become a member of the eu once all the copenhagen criteria have been met.
in writing. stopping the loss of biodiversity is not only an ethical duty the notion of good stewardship requires us to maintain the planet in a state that can meet the needs of future generations but is also an ecological and economic self-evidence. recent studies have shown that the financial cost of biodiversity loss currently stands at around eur 50 billion per year (i.e. just under 1% of eu gdp) and could rise to eur 14 000 billion - or 7% of estimated annual gdp - by 2050. it is essential that the eu can play an active part in global decisions on the post-2010 biodiversity vision and targets; the report also calls for the establishment of a european union vision and targets for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity beyond 2010.
in writing. - i approved the resolution on biodiversity, the diversity of plant and animal species, because it calls on the heads of government to act. 2010 is the year of biodiversity. in the last 40 years, it has decreased by a third. nearly half of all mammals and birds are threatened with extinction. the ep wants to halt the decline in biodiversity by 2020. that is why we must now carry out a biodiversity audit of all european subsidies and policy programmes, so that money flows to measures that have a positive impact on the environment. the tenth meeting of the convention on biological diversity will take place in mid-october. the problem is that the european environment ministers will not be able to adopt the european position until four days before the start of this biodiversity conference. the need for more extensive prior consultation was already demonstrated at the cites conference in mid-march 2010. four days before the start of a conference, it is too late to reach a common position on the eu's position with like-minded countries. the issue of biodiversity must be placed higher on the european priority list. the protection of biodiversity must be integrated into agricultural and fisheries policies and sufficient financial resources must be made available for nature conservation.
in writing. the report voted on today stresses the importance for developing countries of applying international labour standards, providing adequate funding for micro-enterprises, especially in the agricultural sector, fighting corruption and involving the social partners in economic development. it also states that education should be fully accessible as human resource development is indispensable in any development strategy and is crucial for job creation. as regards donor countries, the report calls for the pledges to devote 0.7% of gdp by 2015 to development aid to be kept, as well as for development policy coordination between the commission and eu member states. as a reminder, in 2005, the world bank estimated that 1.4 billion people were already living in extreme poverty, that is, on less than $1.25 a day. sub-saharan africa is the most affected (51%). the south asian population (40.3%) is next. in addition, 2.5 billion people still live in what is called moderate poverty, that is, on less than $2 a day.
mr president, pharmacovigilance must be to medicines what haemovigilance is to blood, and organovigilance to organs, in other words all-risk insurance. having said that, i should say, in fact, almost all risk insurance, since we know - it has been said - that taking medicines, even in strict compliance with the labels, is not without side effects. it is sometimes even fatal, 197 000 deaths a year, as our rapporteur, mrs mcavan, has pointed out in her explanatory statement, as she has also pointed out this afternoon the dramatic episodes which have marked the history of this matter. this statistic is unacceptable. it should be greatly reduced by more effective collaboration between all the actors in the chain. that is why i support all the proposals that go in this direction: better coordination through the eudravigilance database, stronger information for patients and, as has also been said, information that works both ways - mrs rivasi and mr turmes have explained this - and real transparency in the work of the new european pharmacovigilance committee. i conclude, mr president, because the independence of the expertise - and i will always come back to this - is the alpha and omega of all our policies. she's a key player here in building patient confidence.
mr president, in my view amendment no 18 to article 1 sums up perfectly the philosophy we must have: it is a question of ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment and, at the same time, improving the functioning of the internal market. clearly, no one in this house wants to question the use of biocides, which are very useful against rodents, cockroaches, lice - i heard that this is the time for this in schools - and pests in general. the problem is, in fact, elsewhere, and i believe it is in the growing number of manufacturers putting more and more products on the market, reluctant to offer safer solutions. "too much can be bad", said the rapporteur. the other major issue is that of risk reduction policies, which are too often postponed by governments when they are ambitious but essential, because users tend to forget that biocides are familiar substances but dangerous to handle. the european parliament must also spread this warning message.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by mr reimer böge, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a council regulation laying down the multiannual financial framework for the period 2007-2013 (com (2010) 0072 - 2010/0048 (cns)) (a7-0248/2010).
for the greens/efa group madam president, it is true that we are talking here calmly about an adjustment to the 2010 budget and the inscription of a line for the record, a so-called 'technical' amending budget. but we all know that the calmness of this debate compared with the previous one - which was a little less calm - is also due to a courageous and united decision taken at a time of very high tension in the euro zone last may. it was a weekend when the heads of state or government created the famous european financial stabilisation mechanism, which allows the union to borrow on the capital markets in order to be able to grant loans to member states in difficulty, and this on certain conditions. it is this spirit of solidarity which makes it possible to provide guarantees in the interests of europe as a whole and which gives the european budget real added value. that's the good example. unfortunately, the current own resources ceiling of 1.23% of gross national income has not allowed the creation of a single instrument. the budget covers only 60 billion, the remaining 444 billion being provided through an intergovernmental system called the special purpose vehicle, guaranteed by the eurozone member states, a system from which slovakia has recently withdrawn. the present calm, then, may allow us to discuss, but it is above all an obligation to go further and do more in the context of future financial prospects. and in this sense, i think we need to raise the own resources ceiling to create a real macroeconomic function for the european budget, which allows for both a buffer or european investment plans and/or guarantee mechanisms depending on the state of the european economy. we should also be designing new financial instruments. in this context, for example, eurobonds, in partnership with the european investment bank, would be very good tools. finally, we must introduce new own resources - this is urgent - such as the financial transaction tax, the carbon tax or a corporate tax, which will simultaneously reduce the contributions of the member states on the basis of gross national income and remove the famous discussion of net contributors. that is the enormous task that awaits us, particularly in the special committee, but it is also, commissioner, a matter for which we must all be willing to contribute.
mr president, commissioner, a study published yesterday by the national bank of belgium shows the extreme volatility of electricity prices in belgium, but also the serious problems of lack of price transparency for consumers. it fully confirms the many problems that have arisen with producers since liberalisation. the belgian federal regulator has publicly expressed its concern about the lack of competition in this market. all this only reinforces the urgent need for an energy consumer charter - which you have just announced within three years - so that, in the end, liberalisation does not open the door to all abuses to the detriment of consumers. can we hope that you will take a decision to speed up the creation of this consumer charter?
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank you for your clear answer and your very clear views. we must send a very clear message here as a parliament, and that message is one of support for the commission. because whether we think the directive is going too far or not far enough, that it is too late or too early, it is the fact that a majority in this parliament, together with the council and the commission, has adopted something which now has the force of law and which must be implemented. the commission has a duty to ensure that this legislation is implemented in an unequivocal manner. and that legislation leaves nothing to be desired in terms of clarity. it has been referred to at length and i say it again here: from 1 january 2012, all flights departing from or arriving at an airport located in the territory of a member state shall be subject to that directive. so even if they come from third countries, both for the outward and the return flights. the latter is important to emphasize because there are a number of companies that leave it in doubt. it is not possible that third countries should have to pay for only half of their flights, i.e. the outward or the return flights. this would lead to distortions of competition between european airlines on the one hand and between them on the other. that cannot be the correct interpretation. third countries facing problems with this legislation should be reminded once again that their airlines may escape the provisions of this directive if they themselves take similar measures to reduce co2 emissions in the sector. in other words, it is not our business to make potential revenue, on the contrary. if everyone followed us, we would undoubtedly make less money, but we would achieve our environmental objectives, and that is the essence of this legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards the united states, it should also be noted that the second eu-us aviation agreement, which was finalised last spring and is currently in the approval phase, implicitly recognises that market-based instruments on emissions should be allowed. in particular, article 15 of the agreement provides that the joint committee may make recommendations to address possible overlaps or inconsistencies, to avoid duplication of measures and costs. there is therefore no doubt that the agreement negotiated by both aviation blocs provides for mutual recognition of such emissions trading schemes. i therefore urge you once again to keep up the good work, to communicate very clearly and to make it clear that there is no turning back.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, the community trade mark, which was introduced 16 years ago, has been an effective means of combating counterfeiting and providing consumers with the assurance of a quality product throughout the european union. the protection of the trade mark is the same in all the countries of the european union, whether it is the trade mark as such, the goods and services claimed or its proprietor. it is also a genuine solution for the single market, a low-cost solution, especially suited to small and mediumsized enterprises, as you have said, commissioner. this is a real step forward, because in a single market only a community trade mark can guarantee really extensive protection. in addition, the community trade mark is an ideal instrument for widespread protection in europe, as it is easy to administer and low-cost. it is also an important tool for market and customs surveillance authorities. the court of justice of the european communities ruled on 14 september that a sign consisting of the shape of a product necessary to obtain a technical result cannot be registered as a community trade mark. the commission thus responded to a request from the lego company for registration as a community trade mark of its construction briquette. the court therefore dismissed the action, thus demonstrating that the use of the community trade mark must be strictly regulated. this court judgment highlights the new challenges facing regulation 40/94 on the community trade mark. would it not be appropriate for the european commission to update this regulation in the light of new technological developments, in particular the development of the internet and globalisation? it can never be stressed enough that the primary objective of this regulation is first and foremost to guarantee consumers a quality product and complete, clear and comprehensible information throughout the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i wish to thank president van rompuy for the report on this important council. i want to start with the last part of his intervention, on the roma issue. i would say very clearly and personally to my colleague in the ppe group, mr daul, that the commission has acted in the right way on the roma question and we should not criticise it. we have to help the commission in this fight. i call on the commission to stick to its point of view, because what we are facing today is a fundamental question. values are as important as market rules in the european union, and it is important that everybody sees too that the commission treats every member state equally – be they small or big member states. when it comes to values, there is no difference between small and big member states. they all have to apply the same rules. unfortunately, it is true that the european summit has been a little bit hijacked by this issue, but that happens in politics. certainly, in europe, matters are often hijacked by the issue of the day. that is naturally a pity because, on the issue of economic governance, we have no time to waste. we cannot afford to face a new economic and financial crisis without these new instruments on economic governance in place. we know that a monetary pillar cannot work without an economic pillar. if you look at the spreads today, the spreads between the german interest rates and other interest rates are still very high. we need a package on economic governance on the table as soon as possible, and i hope that the commission will come forward with this, as it has promised, on 29 september. in my opinion, to be credible – because that is the most important thing – this package has to respond to and fulfil three primary conditions. president van rompuy, the first condition, which you have always defended, is that this is not only about enforcing fiscal surveillance but also about improving macroeconomic surveillance, because that is the lesson of the greek debt crisis. it is not only about the stability pact, it is also about the state of the economy in that country. the second condition is that the package should contain effective sanctions. i personally think that the best way to do this is, firstly, through progressive sanctions; secondly, there must be a combination of financial penalties and political penalties – not a choice between one or the other but a combination of both; thirdly, in some cases this can also mean suspending the voting rights of those who are breaking the rules. that is so in normal life and that has to apply also in political life, i should say. the third and final condition, in my opinion, is that the trigger has to be in the hands of the commission and the ecb. i believe – and i have said this a few times already – that surveillance by member states simply does not work. it did not work with the lisbon treaty, it did not work with the stability pact and it will not work in the future. we have seen this with germany and france, who did not apply the stability pact in 2005 and simply changed the stability pact at that moment. this will happen again in the future, so the trigger has to be in the hands of the commission. i hope that on 29 september, based also on the work of the taskforce, a credible package will be on the table both of the council and of parliament.
the actual official agenda of last week's european summit was, of course, completely overshadowed by that school of politically correct nonsense, that particularly foolish outburst by commissioner viviane reding against french roma policy. it is high time that the european commission was reprimanded in this respect. the member states have the right, and not just the right, but the duty to act against unacceptable nuisance, against child labour and child neglect, against illegal immigration. they have a duty to protect their citizens. denying the problem of the roma does not solve anything. i wonder what the european commission would say if a roma camp were to be set up on the esplanade of the berlaymont building. president. - mr president, i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to give you the answer to your question. we're used to it. i can only say - and this is a very rare observation - that thanks to france and italy in particular, the european summit last time was a rare opportunity to counter the de facto power grab by those politically appointed officials of the european commission. for once, not a bad thing for europe.
president of the european council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a very brief reply. there's always different ways of putting things. we can be guided by perceptions, we can be guided by achievements and by facts. my character is more about achievement, reality and facts. what has been done in the first eight months of the year, with a new commission and new institutions since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon? we have managed to agree on a major financial surveillance, an extremely important reform, with the cooperation of parliament, of course. after long negotiations, we have agreed on external action, on the external action service, a new ministry of foreign affairs, a new diplomacy for the european union. these are two extremely important achievements, in the context of a complicated institutional architecture, but one that was wanted. we have agreed on a major package to help greece survive. we have agreed on a package of 110 billion, together with such an extremely important reform programme, which is being implemented despite the major difficulties facing the greek government. we agreed on a package of 750 billion in financial support in case - of course, under certain conditions - which calmed the markets and created new prospects. under the union's impulse, major reforms are being carried out, and i am well aware that they are being challenged within the country and beyond. major reforms are under way in a number of european countries. without the pressure from the institutions, this would not have happened so quickly. in foreign policy, i would remind you that we agreed at 27 after the security council on the sanctions against iran, on additional sanctions, which was not at all obvious. we have agreed on a resolution by 27 member states on the dialogue between serbia and kosovo. you know very well that five european countries do not recognise kosovo. this dialogue is of the utmost importance for stability and peace in this area, which is also a european area and must have a european perspective. we finally agreed on a trade deal with korea. we have agreed on a package of support not only financial but also commercial for pakistan. we agreed on a comprehensive approach to the middle east. in december 2009, a common position was reached by the 27 on one of the most disputed regions in the world, the middle east. a new statement was added to it, which was taken up by the quartet a few days ago. all of this has been done. they're achievements, they're facts, and i stick to facts. as far as the task force is concerned, no, we're not working too slowly. we started in may, and now we're in september. in a few months, we made great strides. and we will conclude, not in december as planned, but at the end of october. and i can assure you that i will be able to report here on some qualitatively important conclusions from the results of the task force. there is no problem between the commission and us. we work hand in hand to achieve good results. there is no rivalry of institutions. as regards the roma problem, i would like to recall the five points, which are not council conclusions as such, but on which there is a very broad consensus. we are now awaiting the commission's investigation. we must not prejudge them. and i note, as requested by the european council, that the commission has begun work on a plan for the better integration of certain minorities, including the roma, into the european union. i will add a few words in dutch, which is a minority language, of course, but from time to time we can make it heard. i think that the balance of the first months in extremely difficult circumstances despite everything a positive balance has been. we never thought that economic growth would take place so quickly. in fact, even if it is fragile at the outset, if a few months ago one had said that in one country economic growth would be 3.5%, and today the average in europe would be about 1.5%, no one would have believed it. in a number of countries reform programmes are being set up in extremely difficult political and social circumstances. we are working to create a new kind of economic governance for europe. the situation today - and i am sure it will - in the economy and even in the labour market is better than it was a few months ago. that is not the case. this is a very inspiring moment for the whole community. but the work is glass van af. i think - that is my last word - that many european citizens today are not waiting for a battle over which method is best. i have my own idea about: natural is the most appropriate community method. but they are waiting for the results of our policies. especially if they wait for a perspective. as a better prospect, we must say more loudly, so that the european population can again have more confidence in it. this will be a major contribution not only to the support of european thought, but also to economic growth. i'm someone who keeps to the facts and doesn't let himself be distracted by perception. the facts show that we have made progress in the last eight months with all the institutions, that we are moving in the right direction. we'll be getting closer in the coming months.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, just a quick reaction to the statements by the political leaders. first, the issue of the roma: here again i would like to assure this parliament that the commission will pursue its work according to two strands. the first is very thorough, precise legal analyses of the situation and the second is support for roma integration. as you know, we have all been calling for a european solution for a long time and the commission did a great deal of work with the spanish presidency. we organised a special ministerial summit on this issue in córdoba, though we all know that the attendance was not the best. let us therefore use this opportunity, this debate, to reinvigorate the whole process, to restart the thinking on how we can make better use of our resources and instruments in future. it is quite clear that we need european consensus on this issue; we need the support and commitment of european institutions, of national and local authorities, of civil society as well, and we need to pull with all our strength in one direction. only in this way will we be able to approach a positive solution to the plight of the roma in europe. on proposals on economic governance, i would also like to assure the political leaders that our proposals will address the issue of macro-economic imbalances through greater surveillance. we will propose strengthening national fiscal frameworks and reinforcing the stability and growth pact, in particular by focusing on debt reduction and sustainability and by paying more attention to prevention. so altogether, on 29 september, we are going to propose a package of five proposals for a regulation and one for a directive. the priorities mentioned by the political leaders here will be substantially reflected in the package of proposals that will be presented to you very soon. concerning pakistan, i think we did a lot. we became the major international contributor to pakistan. our role there is very much recognised, but it is very clear that it represented only the first steps in helping pakistan. we need to be involved more, we have to be more consistent, and we have to combine humanitarian aid with development aid, with improving trade access to the european market for pakistan’s products. we now have to concentrate on the measures that we can take as quickly as possible, and for that they need to be compatible with wto rules and we need the support for our wto partners. we are also looking for ways as to how we can evaluate pakistan’s eligibility for gsp plus for 2014. this would then be a measure for the long term that i believe would help pakistan and would help its speedy and successful recovery. concerning the middle east, it is very much recognised in this house, in the council, in the european council and in the commission that this is absolutely a top political priority on the global political scene. i would like to assure all of you that baroness ashton is clearly and very much involved in the process. she regularly briefs the college on how we can cooperate and take even more action in the future, and she is in daily contact with all the principal leaders in this process. as mr daul has said, the eu’s role in accelerating this process is essential. i can assure you, on behalf of the commission – and i am sure on behalf of lady ashton – that we will do our best and that we will play an important role in this process.
president. - mr van rompuy, i have heard you say that the european citizen is waiting for results and for a perspective. the first condition for achieving this is to speak with one voice, especially in view of the upcoming summits with asia and with president obama in the coming weeks. and in speaking with one voice, you can be the necessary hub. one of the absolute priorities in the coming months is, of course, the climate debate. we must have the courage to put forward new initiatives as the european union. i am thinking, first of all, of a joint approach to financial transactions, the so-called robin hood approach. you could be the next robin hood! and that should provide the means to invest in renewable energy and energy savings, not just in europe, but also in africa. because you know as well as we do that we are committed to reducing poverty in africa drastically. the use of renewable energy can also be one of the most efficient tools to achieve this goal. moreover, we must not leave the field to the asians, to the chinese, in africa. i think you've done an impeccable job so far. some said a year ago that they didn't expect much from you because in their eyes you were a noble stranger. today i think we can say - and they agree - that the european union has made important progress in recent months and that we have weathered this economic and financial storm fairly well. i would say: the best is yet to come! well, that's what we expect of you. thank you, and good luck.
mr president, i thank the chairmen. it is true that we were waiting for a council on economic governance and we got the roma. we have already spoken a great deal about the incident with mrs reding, but i would like to add something. we support it, both in form and substance. i'd like to explain the form. we cannot confiscate world war ii indefinitely, because we will not learn from it. it is important to remember that gypsies, like jews, homosexuals and communists, were in the camps. they were exterminated. mrs reding is right when she says that it was from that moment, from that time, that we decided, and europe, and peace, and never again to discriminate on the basis of race. that is what we want. we support the commission, we appreciate the way in which it is the guardian of the treaties and we also say, as others have said, 'big countries and small countries'. but i would like to say that, at the end of this council, the perception of the resurgence of nationalisms was something that was almost terrifying to me. it has a lingering 1930s smell. we'll have to be careful tomorrow. on economic governance, very quickly, as you told us, mr van rompuy, the task force is moving forward and we will have conclusions in october. a quick note: you are going to put in place the monitoring mechanisms in the strictest financial orthodoxy, but you told us "yes, but the social; yes, but the pensions; yes, but the social parameters within this, all this is the business of the states". that is not the view of my group. the opinion of my group is that we must think about surveillance while introducing social parameters. we cannot make europe against the citizens. that too would be dangerous.
mr president, i would like to ask mr verhofstadt to stay in the chamber. the roma are a deep-seated social problem in europe, and i would warn against too much hypocrisy. we heard the sweeping statements of mr verhofstadt at the previous plenary session. he accused mr sarkozy of things that he did himself. in 1999, mr verhofstadt, as prime minister, deported groups of roma back to slovakia. they were dislodged in groups. belgium was condemned by the european court of human rights. ngos protested against it. ladies and gentlemen, the house has a right to know. the people have a right to know, and that is why i am saying this. we have sweeping statements about everything – that is the reason why mr verhofstadt is not listening, because he does not want to be reminded of it. that is precisely what i am doing, and that is why i have been elected: to remind him of what he did. if there was ever to be a nobel prize for hypocrisy i am quite sure that mr verhofstadt would win it outright.
in writing. mr president, this historic agreement was made possible by the excellent work of the belgian presidency of the council, which supported parliament's approach and succeeded where some other presidencies had failed. in keeping with the main points of the larosière report, we in the european parliament have ensured that the new european supervisors have sufficient power. they can impose binding measures on financial institutions if national supervisors fail to act, they ensure greater coordination between national authorities and settle their disputes. fortunately, this goes far beyond the non-binding coordination between national watchdogs, which many member states initially opted for. we have already seen what a lack of european supervision can lead to. the new supervisory structure not only protects the bank's customers but also the taxpayer. there's one small flaw. i regret that parliament's call for supervisors to be housed in one place, in frankfurt close to the ecb, was not heeded. fortunately, parliament was able to insert a review clause so that in three years' time it can be verified whether the european supervisors do not need more powers and whether the spread of the authorities is appropriate.
in writing. the main objective of this draft regulation is to improve the safety of biocidal products used and placed on the market in the european union and to simplify the authorisation process, also at eu level. to this end, the commission proposed in its draft regulation to bring together existing european legislation and update it in the interests of both consumers and manufacturers. it therefore aims to reform the current system by extending its scope to cover materials and articles treated with biocidal products, introducing a european-wide authorisation of known low-risk products, reducing animal testing, aligning data requirements, expanding the role of echa and ensuring uniform application of the regulation throughout the european union.
in writing. the new eu regulation on biocides is not just a question of the internal market. it is also a matter of protecting health and the environment. that is the message conveyed by the european parliament this afternoon. it is true that several requests from industry must be met with regard to these products to combat pests: access to the european market, rapidity of approval procedures, non-duplication of tests, consistency with legislation on pesticides. this is not a blank cheque for the producers. the principle of substitution for the most harmful substances is clearly stated. this is mainly the case for pbt and endocrine disruptors. the responsibility of all actors is enshrined, including the manufacturer placing biocidal-treated articles on the market. let's remember the case of the poisoned sofas! the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. one finding: with limited resources, it will be difficult to obtain reliable tests and thus reduce the health risks to users.
in writing. for ordinary mortals, the term "property" always refers to the possession of material goods. but it is too often forgotten that intellectual production must also lead to property rights: copyright. artists, writers, composers, authors and creators of all kinds should therefore be able to legitimately be paid for the use of their works, while consumers should have access to a legal and diverse offer of content on the internet. the report by mrs gallo, which was voted on wednesday, 22 september, states that the phenomenon of online piracy, against which copyright holders seem to be helpless, is taking on significant proportions. it is therefore necessary to have a system for the protection of literary and artistic property rights which takes into account the rights and obligations of users, fundamental freedoms and stimulates innovation within a framework of legal certainty for the benefit of both consumers and rightholders. i therefore support the text voted on this afternoon.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, it is impossible to speak here on behalf of the raped women who have no eyes, the mutilated babies, the pregnant women with open bellies, the old women raped with bayonets in the vagina, all those whose bodies have become, to their shame, but above all to ours, a devastated battlefield. it is impossible to speak for the children who are enrolled in militias and forced to kill adults and children like themselves with clubs, and who have also become real sex slaves. the ongoing, quiet sexual genocide in the congo, with tens of thousands of victims each year, is now beyond words. we are truly beyond words. but what is clear is that all the instruments are there: legislative texts, plans for reform of the armed forces, international missions, financial support and the mobilisation of the whole community. and the impunity remains. the impunity is appalling, since a criminal like bosco ntaganda, far from being punished, is now back in an important position in the congolese administration. we demand that justice be done. we cannot, in the name of appeasement, continue this culture of impunity. what does it mean to prosecute these crimes? it means investigating, reforming the judiciary, paying the soldiers properly, prosecuting the guilty, including those who inspired the massacres, however high they may be. it also means that our own governments will not supply arms to the rebels and their mercenaries or engage in dubious transactions with them in illegal minerals. that is why we support mrs wallström and ask the commission to consider the possibility of european legislation which would be inspired by the new us law, the conflict minerals act. this means that we can no longer stand to see our mobile phones, our computers and, in the future, our hybrid cars being built with minerals that have been illegally sold and that have been created by conflict. they're blood minerals, just like there were blood diamonds. and our relations with the congolese government will depend, mr president, on the way in which the zero tolerance policy on violence against women, which it has itself decided to implement, is applied. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group mr president, i can of course only agree with what has been said, and perhaps particularly with mrs de keyser, who has used very harsh, very crude words to define violence against women. it is true that all the witnesses agree. they are all unsustainable, unbearable, individually and, above all, collectively. moreover, all this violence obviously has the aim of purifying, humiliating, and ultimately destroying a population, its dignity, its reason for living. so for all these reasons, i think we need to be able to react even more strongly. it is true that the situation in the congo is even more difficult today in all respects, not only in the question of violence against women, which is unbearable, but also in other respects. you have mentioned it, mr chastel, first of all in relation to the daily lives of many congolese, but also in relation to the question of human rights in general and not just women's rights, in relation to the question of human rights defenders. i want to say that i see a direct link, of course, between this violence against women and a series of crimes that also go unpunished. the plundering of natural resources goes largely unpunished. the american law was cited, and it could be used as a model here in europe. but i also believe that the issue of impunity for resource looting is absolutely crucial as well. it is decisive because today even the commitment made by mr kabila, the head of the congolese government, to ban exports is ultimately very harmful, especially for all the small excavators who live only from this. it's bad because it's actually not good for anything. it is a bit of a pain in the ass in that - as we all know - the congolese armed forces are not only, for some of them, linked to the rape of women, but also linked to the plundering of resources and the organized corruption around it. so what matters is not just the laws or the decisions of a government, but also the ability to apply them, to implement them and to actually allow the exercise of a power, of a government. i therefore think that in conclusion - and there will be many of us in kinshasa shortly for the acp meeting - in our desire to help and support the useful, positive forces in congo, whether they be governmental, associative, human rights or other, we will have a double message: a message of support for those who want to develop the culture of justice and the fight against impunity, but also for the political forces and their ability to equip themselves with the instruments that allow real governance at all levels: security, the application of the laws, the serial implementation of a decision, and simply the credibility, finally, of the elected representatives. four years after the elections we all wanted, financed and supported, it is important not only to condemn but also to encourage all those actions which make it possible to implement both the governmental and democratic processes in a concrete and precise way. and i think that violence against women and violence against human rights defenders are two extremely important elements. i will end by saying that in september, in principle, mr chebeya will be tried. i think that, once again, we must be very careful to make this trial, also in view of the suffering of his relatives, a purely symbolic trial of the will to solve the problem.
mr president, in fact, when i spoke today i thought that my previous speech on this subject, almost a year ago, was still relevant. i was referring to the extreme urgency, the fight against impunity, the evaluation of the monuc mission. the findings are similar, the calls for action from the international community and the congolese authorities are similar, and in the meantime, on the ground of violence, nothing changes, everything gets tragically worse. do we realise that we are talking about hundreds of innocent people being sacrificed, humiliated, raped, sometimes even mutilated? all empires and failures add up: the failure of a state whose primary responsibility is to ensure the protection of its population, the failure of monuc and now monusco, which, in view of the mass rapes perpetrated this summer in north and south kivu, seems to have taken neither preventive nor reactive action. how long will the international community tolerate this? the acts of today are the result of a war that has lasted far too long. it is true that the upcoming mapping report of the united nations high commissioner for human rights on the situation of human rights between 1993 and 2003 will confirm what we all know: the massive scale of crimes committed in the drc in the past. but today is about the present. it is high time that we took account of all the crimes and therefore all the acts of sexual violence in the drc, which are also of historical proportions. the zero tolerance promised by joseph kabila must necessarily go hand in hand with zero impunity. all those responsible for human rights violations must be held to account and, in some cases, brought before the international criminal court, and as regards past events, like mrs creţu, i urge again for the establishment of an international criminal tribunal for the drc. it is our responsibility and that of the international community to ensure that justice is done for the hundreds of thousands of victims, whoever they may be - those of today and those of yesterday - who have fallen for so many years in this martyred country.
mr. president, on that day, the military attacked the village where nadine and her family lived. they ordered his brother to rape her in front of the whole village, but when he refused, they killed him. then the soldiers forced her to drink her own urine before killing her three children, aged four, two and one. they raped her one after another, causing a rupture of the membrane between her vagina and her anus. finally, they killed a pregnant woman and then boiled the fetus before forcing the villagers to eat it. nadine escaped and was treated, but how many of them didn't make it? this is not a legend, this is the reality in the land of the summit of horror, this is what has been happening in the congo for ten years now. we have already adopted resolutions on this subject and i also spoke in december last year, but the situation remains unchanged and impunity remains the rule. i call on the un council to act more effectively, and on monusco to really protect civilians. and mr chastel has mentioned this i, like my colleague véronique de keyser, am calling for the european union to adopt a law similar to the one that was recently passed in the united states, to ban the import of goods made from smuggled minerals and, therefore, to stop the financing of rebel groups.
president, commissioner, i think you are being too cautious. you do not want to make a final statement because the final arrangements have not yet been worked out, but in the meantime our citizens are paying that levy. of course you can't! you must intervene and in a very active way. it has been said many times by colleagues before me: it is astonishing to note that the american authorities have found no better answer to the question of how to attract more visitors than to subject these same visitors to an additional charge of 14 dollars. four dollars of that is effectively used to cover the costs of the esta electronic travel authorization system. in other words, the aim is not to shift the burden of regular costs onto the american taxpayer but onto the european one. and that is the first important difference with all the air taxes or air taxes which we have also introduced in a number of member states, for example in germany very recently. i regret these unilateral measures by a number of member states and i am, on the contrary, in favour of a european approach to the matter, which preferably also takes account of, for example, the external costs of the flights in question. but this is not about that. in europe there is no discrimination, everyone pays the bill, whereas in the case of the usa we alone pay the bill. and we are 900,000 europeans who re-register every month through esta. it should also be carefully examined whether the measure is contrary to the letter and spirit of the visa waiver programme. the fact is that it does not require a visa from either side, with the associated costs. esta is becoming synonymous with a visa. that is what mr brok has just said. i therefore ask you not to be frivolous, not to be waiting, but to send a very strong signal to our colleagues in the united states that this cannot be done, that this is not the way to deal with each other. all options must therefore be considered and if there is no flexibility on the american side, then of course reciprocity must also be considered. in this connection, i would like to refer to the efforts of mr tajani to establish a european tourism policy. since the treaty of lisbon we have had more say on this at european level. it is perhaps not a bad idea to discuss this in that context in the coming months.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the public. five months ago, the unthinkable happened. on april 20th, the terrible disaster in the gulf of mexico occurred. it took five months before the leak was finally sealed. it is therefore up to us, as european legislators, to ensure that such a disaster cannot occur in european waters. that's why we're having this debate. that's why we're doing this. the resolution on which we voted in the committee on the environment is very much in line with the analysis and the policy and the willingness of commissioner oettinger. commissioner oettinger has already come to the plenary a few times to explain what he stands for and what he wants to do. our resolution is very much in line with this. i regret that the council says it will wait for commission proposals before reacting. i had actually expected the council to react to the proposals which parliament is now putting forward in the debate. these proposals are important. they come in all kinds. we are actually calling on the member states to put a moratorium on accidents as long as there is no certainty that adequate safety standards are being met. we want a moratorium until we are sure that the liability legislation is in order. we want to see what is happening with the supervision of the supervisors. we want to ensure that action is also taken to dismantle installations which are still in operation and which may have to be dismantled in the near future. we want the mandate of emsa, the maritime safety organisation, to be extended. we want that organization to be responsible not only for pollution at sea from ships but also for pollution at sea from oil rigs in the event of a disaster. these are all very concrete matters which are contained in this resolution. i regret, mr chastel, that you are not responding here on behalf of the council to parliament's proposals and are awaiting the proposals that mr oettinger will present, the first of which will be the stress test of existing legislation next week. the commission has a very good record, a record of rejection of the council.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the visa regime. the explanatory statement by mrs fajon literally says that these are mainly students and young people who are visiting their friends and family. is this real or feigned naivety and a kind of active denial of reality? for example, the report also claims that the abolition of the visa requirement will help to remove ethnic and political instability. now, the only result will be that we simply import a lot of that instability into the european union. let me quote from the report by europol, eurojust and frontex on internal security in the eu. it's a document dated may 7, 2010. 'albania, kosovo, serbia, montenegro and fyrom are transit countries to the eu for illegal immigration and victims of trafficking in human beings for sexual exploitation, cannabis products, heroin, cocaine, synthetic drugs, counterfeit euro and firearms. albanian-speaking organised crime groups are prominent, mainly in the heroin trade and trafficking of women". end of quote. so instead of tightening up the controls, we are now going to simply abolish those visas, we are going to open doors wide and make the problem of imported crime even worse.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow as scheduled. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by othmar karas, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on basel ii and the revision of the capital requirements directive (crd 4) [2010/2074 (ini) ] (a7-0251/2010).
for the greens/efa group madam president, basel iii is intended to be a working base and therefore cannot in any case be the maximum scope that the european union would set itself. to those who say: 'if you go beyond basle, look at the competitiveness of our banks on the world stage', i say that the sustainability of our economy is and must be our primary concern. and if that means stricter rules, so be it. i would also add that in terms of a level playing field, an expression so often used, the united states does not bother to play the lone knight when it can, when it is convenient for it, and so i would not like europe to simply wait for some kind of consensus which will never come. secondly, any transitional period must necessarily be limited in time, and i can tell you that the eight years envisaged for us are too long. moreover, - and this was not foreseen - this transitional period must be accompanied by strict conditions in terms of the distribution of dividends and bonuses. it would be indecent and unacceptable in our view for banks to invoke the difficulty of building up the capital reserves imposed by the new rules while shareholders and managers continue to serve themselves cheerfully in the cash. my last message is to the banks, plain and simple. i say to those banks who complain that it will no longer be possible to make the same margins as in the golden years that all the companies in industry, in the retail sector, which work in the real economy, must be content with annual net margins of between two and five per cent. and there's no shame in that. so, this party's gonna have to end.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the commission's statement on fines imposed by the commission in cartel and abuse of dominant position cases.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues.
that item is closed.
the agenda calls for the report by véronique de keyser, on behalf of the committee on development, on health care systems in sub-saharan africa and global health (2010/2070(ini) (a7-0245/2010).
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, thank you for being here again. this report is in fact a response to a commission communication on health at the global level, but it has taken a slightly different approach and focused much more on the mutual systems that are now flourishing in africa. let me take a little detour. in fact, the health situation in africa is dramatic despite all the international aid and it's due to a significant amount of factors, whether it's climate change, financial crisis, wars or bad governance in some countries, greed that is excited by the very wealth that is found in africa. this, plus the big pandemics like aids, malaria, tuberculosis, etc., all of these factors together make this a real disaster. so, i have to first of all commend the work of ngos and some churches as well, who are doing quite remarkable work in emergency, in conflict zones, but that cannot mean a long-term response, it is not a sustainable response. there are so-called vertical funds, which we have mentioned, and which are used to combat major pathologies, such as aids, malaria, tuberculosis. they drain a lot of money and are quite attractive for private charity because you feel like you're giving to a cause you're really good at. but in reality, these funds, which are doing their job, are also only covering a small part of the problem because, unfortunately, more people are dying in africa today for lack of sanitation, for lack of clean water -- children dying of dysentery -- or for lack of a nearby clinic -- than, alas, from aids or malaria. hence the attention that has been paid to an emerging movement since the 1990s, which are the initiatives of insurance systems but especially mutual insurance companies that have sprung up a little bit everywhere in different african countries. the interest of these systems of mutual health care is, of course, to involve the population in the management of their health. let us not hide the fact, they will not be self-sufficient, they will not be able to cover the entire financing of care or access to medicines, but, combined with other funds, with other subsidies, they do in any case make it possible to ensure coverage of health care and medicinal care with, in addition, participation, a kind of social dynamic that has settled in. so there are hundreds of them, they're in different countries, they're in different sectors. there are women's health insurance, coffee shop workers' health insurance, etc. so the challenge for us is to support this social dynamic, to finance it, to coordinate it, while saying that maybe one day it will be self-sufficient, but it's not today. so if these mutuals can exist, they can only exist if there are, of course, next to them, what are called horizontal systems. that is, why go to insurance or pay for any health accident, for any surgery, if there is no hospital, if there is no doctor, if there is no medicine. so, as a corollary to this, we believe that the european union must not only support, coordinate and support these mutual societies, but also put a very strong emphasis on horizontal systems, on basic health care, even asking the vertical funds to part-finance this so-called horizontal care, this basic care which is necessary, which is the balance for the mutual societies to exist. this is the set of problems that is mentioned in the report. i have no more time, but i may be able to answer some colleagues who have some concerns about reproductive health which is mentioned in this report and which is a point which i hold very dear.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. i support the commission's proposal to abolish the visa regime for citizens of albania and bosnia and herzegovina. the visa regime must not isolate the citizens of the western balkans or divert them from the european union, their direct neighbour. the decision to liberalize visas is a consequence of the progress made by these two countries, particularly in strengthening the fight against organised crime. this is a decision that will have a significant psychological impact on the population, for example on students, who until now have been queuing up at consulates.
in writing. there are no words to express the atrocity of the ongoing violence in the democratic republic of congo. except to describe them, one by one... mass rape, mutilation, gratuitous violence, looting, sordid murder, not to mention the most basic freedoms, daily violated in a state in the midst of decay. in addition to the lack of action and reaction, there is impunity due to the lack of justice. congolese authorities resigning in the face of the indispensable duty to protect their citizens. this resolution, the third of its kind, is addressed primarily to the congolese authorities, but also to the european and international bodies which cannot remain in the background. they have a duty to act and protect the population, in particular through the presence of monusco on the ground. they must help to restore peace and stability in the region and contribute to the establishment of a state which is fully in possession of its royal functions, so as to be able to enforce the rule of law.
in writing. i can only welcome the adoption of the resolution on the shortcomings in the protection of human rights and justice in the democratic republic of congo. this resolution highlights and condemns the countless rapes perpetrated as a weapon of war against congolese women. these atrocities are ravaging the country, and will continue to ravage the country for a long time. i would like to reiterate the need to combat impunity in the region and ask the commission to prepare without delay a legislative initiative along the lines of the us law on 'conflict minerals'.
in writing. i supported this resolution because my conscience as a human being moves me to fight for the abolition of the death penalty. this is the fight of all humanists. its abolition enhances human dignity and helps the progressive development of human rights. there is no justification for the relative value of human life. i would remind you that europe, the land of democracy, was a pioneer in this struggle for abolition. it is his duty to give priority to this legitimate struggle.
in writing. is the european parliament prepared to vote for a moratorium on all new offshore oil drilling? and so we can learn from the human and ecological tragedy of the oil disaster that occurred on april 20 in the gulf of mexico: 11 dead, 800 million litres of oil spilled and a devastated biodiversity. that is the only real political issue at stake in this afternoon's vote. the european parliament's plenary session, by voting no to the moratorium, has sent a clear message which does not respond to the concerns of the citizens. it is clear that drilling on the high seas is a risky activity and all precautionary measures must be taken: reinforcement of the principle of environmental responsibility, creation of a special european fund fund funded by the mandatory contributions of the operators of offshore installations. especially when such drilling is done in the arctic in extreme cold and deep conditions. the european parliament, by refusing to vote for a pause in the exploitation of new drilling on the high seas, is falling short of the position of the european commission, which, on 7 july, announced through commissioner oettinger the de facto installation of a moratorium.
in writing. the european union must adopt the same aggressive attitude on the international scene in the protection of biodiversity as it has in the fight against climate change. the challenge in nagoya is as much to preserve biodiversity as it is in cancun to reverse the hellish trend of global warming. the figures are a reminder of the scale of the challenge: 30% of animal and plant species have disappeared since 1970. in europe, despite the growing awareness of the need to protect nature, which has resulted in the establishment of natura 2000 ecological zones covering almost 18% of the european territory, biodiversity loss continues. what to expect in nagoya from october 18 to 29, 2010? at best, the european union should speak with one voice. it must also have the courage to speak out on the issues that are causing concern, including with the host country, japan, which cannot allow unsustainable and particularly barbaric whaling and dolphin fishing to go on with impunity. and to convey the right message: the best way to protect species diversity is still to integrate this concern in a transversal way in economic activities: trade, tourism and transport.
in writing. i support the report on health care systems in sub-saharan africa and maternal health. health is not a commodity. in the wake of the 2010 report on the millennium development goals and five years from the deadline, it is the responsibility of each of us to support partner countries in implementing their national health policy. health expenditure is not a cost but an investment essential for the sustainable socioeconomic development of these countries.
in writing. in its resolution on health care systems in sub-saharan africa and global health, the european parliament recalled the right of women to control their own reproductive health, whether it be reproduction, contraception, abortion or sexually transmitted diseases, without coercion. i regret, however, that this provision was adopted by a narrow majority (313 to 229). this is a fundamental right for which thousands of women have fought and are still fighting in europe and around the world, often at the risk of their lives. while i very much regret the position of a minority of my colleagues, i very much welcome today's vote.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - mr president, mrs ashton, like many others, my group wants the staff of the external action service to be balanced in terms of geographical origin, gender and the balance between large and small countries. but we're doing intergovernmental crusades and quotas again, and it's ultimately the merit of the candidates that should be the ultimate criterion. so we are aware that neither the current hiring criteria nor the choice of assignment of candidates favours the desired balance and that this cannot be achieved, as you have said, just like that, immediately. but if the possible imbalance worries some - and i admit this, including some in our own ranks - we also know that it risks being exploited by those who want to weaken you, mrs ashton, and not support you in the challenges that lie ahead, and we also know that there are some. that is why my group is very clear about its support for you and its confidence in you, mrs ashton. we must give you the means to succeed, and it is high time to launch the external action service. but it is true that if, in two years, you come back with a major problem of distribution of your employees, it will pose a small problem in the landfill, and i think that for you, as for us, it is better to avoid it. good luck with that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this day in the european parliament is largely about the fight against poverty in the world. this is important, but as mrs figueiredo said, poverty is still too widespread in europe too. the fight against this phenomenon is one of the priorities of the 2020 strategy. but while it is good to set goals that should have been more ambitious, it is better to give yourself the means to achieve them. and adequate minimum income for all in europe is clearly one of those means. the excellent report by our colleague shows its usefulness in this fight and shows real progress. but without a legislative initiative from the commission, which also recognizes the role of the minimum income, we fear that the states will not give effect to our wish to reject poverty. this report must therefore be supplemented by a framework directive which respects national practices.
president, commissioner, one in six people in the european union is at risk of poverty. the majority of the victims are under 17 years of age, but many older people are also vulnerable. poverty is increasing, even among europeans who have jobs. i therefore believe that we must also take an initiative at european level, ladies and gentlemen. economic growth, better education, more jobs. we are all for this, of course, but it is clear that this is not enough and that we need a specific policy against poverty. it is, moreover, - as has already been said here - one of the flagships, one of the priorities of our new 2020 strategy. what is it about, exactly? it is about dignity of life, the right to dignity of life, it is about food, housing, clothing, basic things which in 2010 are apparently not guaranteed in our prosperous european union. i therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we must also take action at european level to achieve this minimum income. it is not an instrument - as mrs bastos has already said - which should be filled in in the same way throughout the european union. there should be sufficient scope for member states to choose their own specific solution. but we must keep up the pressure to avoid leaving vulnerable people behind. we therefore expressly call for a system of guaranteed minimum incomes to be introduced in all the countries of the european union. this would be an important signal of hope for all the weakest in europe, who are today affected by poverty and social exclusion.
a few days after the world day against poverty and just two months before the end of the european year against poverty and social exclusion, the european parliament has the opportunity to make its voice heard. there is one choice we must make here: will 2010 be the year of sweet talk and empty promises against poverty, or will we take concrete action that will help millions of europeans move forward? parliament can choose the latter option by requiring the commission to come forward with a proposal for a framework directive laying down the principle of an adequate minimum income in europe. today, there are too many disparities in the eu, with some countries even lacking a minimum income. but even in the countries which do better (such as belgium), living wages are often still below the poverty line. i believe that everyone deserves equal opportunity. when you push people below the poverty line, you deprive them of those opportunities, and that manifests itself on different levels (health, housing, employment, ...). moreover, if we really want to make a difference in achieving the eu 2020 objectives, we simply cannot afford to give up on people.
in writing. i support the report on women in precarious employment because i cannot imagine that in the 21st century there are still large disparities in employment, quality of work, income and equal pay for equal work or work of equal value for women in the eu. unfortunately, the overrepresentation of women in precarious jobs is a major contributor to the gender pay gap, and i share the view that improving the quality of employment for women will help to reduce this pay gap. i also believe that all workers, including women workers, in precarious situations must have the right to education and vocational training and that girls and young women should have better access to quality education, training and studies. finally, it is essential that the commission continue to support the member states in the development of an action plan to enable the gradual transition from the status of a precarious worker to that of a regular worker.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, minister, i would like to welcome the rapporteurs and in particular the rapporteurs, mrs sidonia elżbieta jędrzejewska and mrs trüpel. i think that the commission has done a tremendous job, a very remarkable job, which has enabled even the old budgetary officers, those who have been making budgets in this parliament for years, to work under the new conditions, those of the lisbon treaty, with a single reading. anyway, it's a great job, thank you. a marathon in which our group chairmen - there is only one more in the room now - have at one time participated. we have sometimes been a little afraid that things might go wrong, but fortunately this has not been the case at all, thanks to our rapporteurs and thanks to our president. it may not be customary, but i would also like to pay tribute to his work. we have benefited from the fact that the group leaders want to bring an ambitious budget with us and, above all, to establish links with the future, with what is coming, in the sure committee, in the next budgetary perspectives. i am glad that we have reached agreement together, the group chairmen and the committee on budgets. we shall see! however, at the moment we have parliament's position and, after hearing what mr wathelet said about the council's views, i have some fears, of course, about the conciliation that awaits us, it will not be easy, because between the council's demands and those of parliament, it will not be easy to reconcile our views. i am counting on you to help us do that and to have a really ambitious budget. those in the council who criticise, for example, the increase in payment appropriations are making a bad case against this budget. these are commitments of the past, it's a question of credibility: when you pay what you said you would pay, you're only doing what you have to do, even if it's over the payment credits. i think we should not make the wrong choice in the debate. if we are to support the resolution tomorrow, i think there are certain inconsistencies in this budget and i would like to highlight two which i think are the main ones. a few months ago, we all voted in this great resolution on the 2020 agenda, in which we decided to include things like greening the economy, support for renewable energy, green technologies, etc., everything that generates activity, employment. and it is with this in mind that, in order to give substance to these intentions, we tabled an amendment so that the criteria for sustainable development would be moved out of the life programme and into all the other areas. i think that amendment will be rejected tomorrow. i would urge you to support our amendment so that the criteria for sustainable development are not just words but also deeds. i come now to the second contradiction, iter. at iter, we cut it by 45 million. i think that's it. but, above all, we wanted to take this money from the agricultural policy; luckily, we didn't catch him there, but we did catch him looking, which isn't much better. i refer again to what mr ban ki-moon said to us this morning. he called on us as europeans to be leaders in renewable energy, to bring new energy with strength and not the energy of the past, not the energy that pays first to shareholders, not to european consumers or to the europeans of tomorrow who will have to continue to deal with the issue of waste. this leakage forward which will ultimately cost 1.5 billion euros on iter is, in my view, a big mistake, and i think we are not doing what we said we would do in the 2020 resolution. finally, a few timetable incidents: we also have economic governance, the council task force which is coming to an end, the commission proposals; there will be a lot of work to do to link this budget to subsequent budgets and to the prospects.
i represent in this parliament the people who pay the most tax money to the european union, both proportionately and net of all. each fleming pays a net annual contribution of some 290 euros to ensure the functioning of the european institutions. we flemings are the champions of european taxpayers. i therefore find it particularly unacceptable that in the first paragraphs of this report we are already pointing the finger at people who dare to ask questions - and rightly so - about the extent of the european union's commitment and the usefulness of much of the european union's spending. it is far from certain that the european level spends tax money more efficiently than levels closer to the taxpayer. - no, it's the opposite. the way in which the gigantic administrative colossus of the eu is being expanded is also unacceptable to me. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. and i am not even talking about the european subsidies. one billion euros a year for ngos, for example, where there are hardly any efficiency criteria. all the member states of the european union are faced with enormous budgetary efforts and savings. we should expect a much greater effort from the european union, but we seem to think we are above the plebs. another missed opportunity for parliament and for the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i just want to say that i think it is a good document produced by the commission, except that it comes 15 months too late. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. indeed, whenever there are negotiations, we are sold a mid-term review, which comes at the end of the term. this is not right at all, and it must not be repeated. secondly, the main point of this dossier concerns own resources. why would you do that? because it is the basis of the european union. the founding fathers of the union created a european union based on own resources, i.e. customs duties, taxes on imported agricultural products and vat. that's it. it is because of the british cheque that we started with national contributions. this is the reality. we must therefore return to these own resources as the basis for financing. it must be done now because it is the only way to move europe forward. it must also be done for democratic reasons. in a democracy, there is a need for people to pay their various incomes directly to europe and thus to be able to contribute and control, through these resources, the functioning of the european union. my second point, madam president, is actually about the things that are being said: that the european budget and contributions at european level must be reduced to clean up public finances is nonsense. the reality is that the fiscal deficits, the budget deficits in europe, are €868 billion today, or 7% of the gross domestic product of the european union. even if we follow the idea of curbing expenditure at european level and having a complete freeze of the european budget, these 868 billion fall to 860 billion. that's the reality of it. what is needed is the reverse, the transfer of powers from the national to the european level to reduce the costs of member states' expenditure. the european union can do better in defence, research, diplomacy and infrastructure, and these can help to reduce budget deficits. and that is how we must act now, mr president-in-office, towards your colleagues: we must really open the own resources gap because otherwise you will not agree on the 2011 budget.
the interim evaluation of the multiannual financial framework which the commission is presenting to us today is both disappointing and hopeful. disappointing because the document does not open any prospect of a revision of the multiannual framework for 2010-2012. the 2011 budget has shown, however, that this is unsustainable. the financial framework does not take into account new tasks under the lisbon treaty, nor the 2020 objectives. that is untenable. at the very least, there should be room for greater flexibility. fortunately, the commission is also in favour of this. this increased flexibility should apply as from 2012. the document is also hopeful, because the commission is finally opening up the debate on own resources. this may well be the great debate of the coming years. a difficult but inevitable debate. the treaty stipulates that the eu budget must be financed from own resources. the current financing is 80% by transfers from national budgets. these are not european own resources. they are part of the expenditure of the national budgets. they are putting pressure on the national deficits which the european stability pact is trying to reduce. member states therefore try to limit these transfers. at the same time, they expect more from europe, as shown by the lisbon treaty and the 2020 strategy. we must break this contradiction. this can only be done by resorting to genuine own resources. these should make it possible to reduce the contributions of the member states and increase the resources of the eu at the same time. the commission rightly points to new forms of taxation directly linked to policy areas which are being developed mainly at european level as possible own resources. i refer to the regulation of the financial sector and climate policy. i hope that the european council and the council will also understand the need to open the debate on own resources now, as a matter of urgency, with a view to the financial perspective beyond 2014.
mr president, whether it is the glass half empty or the glass half full, it is a document that contains useful clues, and what is most important to me is what we are going to do with it. that is what this parliament will do with this document. i think there are some interesting things in it, it's been said, and others have said it long before me. the question of own resources is obviously the big discussion we need to have. i also share the view that it is worthwhile to use these channels to give concrete support to the 2020 option, but i stress that it is not just the 2020 document. we must obviously work on this, but there is of course the agricultural policy, there is of course the question of transport networks and there are two other documents which we must also deal with. i am thinking in particular of the report of the task force chaired by mr van rompuy on economic governance, which also highlights a number of problems linked to budgetary coordination. finally, we must also work on all the possibilities that will be open to us, on the basis of what you have said, and i am thinking in particular of another report, the famous monti report, which presents us with the other side of budgetary policies, that is to say, everything that concerns tax cooperation. i do not think we can isolate this debate on the commission's proposals from all the other questions that are being asked in other european institutions because they are, after all, the different phases of the same debate.
but beyond the figures quoted by our distinguished colleague, mr guerrero salom, in sub-saharan africa, out of 829 million inhabitants, about 240 million suffer from hunger, or 30% of the population. but when we consider that in the second half of the 20th century, agricultural and food production increased by a factor of 2,6, we find that it has increased more in 50 years than in 10,000 years ago. in comparison, i think it is unconscionable to continue to grow cotton as a primary crop, for example in burkina faso, when 49% of the population is hungry. should not development policies, commissioner, put agricultural food production back at the centre of development policy priorities?
you will understand, commissioner, that the adoption of regulations on air, rail and, more recently, sea passenger rights has given european citizens legitimate hope that they will finally find quick and financial solutions to delays, cancellations and other serious inconveniences. their disappointment is all the greater when they learn that thousands of complaints remain unanswered, such as the one you mentioned about the volcanic eruption in iceland. the member states are not putting in place the operational and efficient regulatory services which are required to oblige airlines to apply these regulations and, if necessary, to impose financial penalties on them. one example: since 1 february 2006 in belgium, this economic regulator has not imposed any penalties on airlines, and so obviously this situation does not solve the problem of consumers.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, we express our solidarity and our sympathy with the victims. we have to help people. what happened there was terrible. i have three comments to make after your speech, mrs georgieva. you say that, from what you say, it seems that most of the european legislation has been observed correctly. i would ask the commission to carry out a thorough investigation. mrs lepage pointed out that there is a whole range of european legislation: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. there is an environmental liability directive. this accident could have happened, and yet apparently all environmental laws were followed. this is not possible. so somewhere a mistake was made. have the hungarian authorities taken their responsibility? did they do enough checks? so i think there should be a kind of stress test and research into how european legislation has been applied and whether it has been applied correctly. secondly: our hungarian green friends have insisted that an independent commission of inquiry be sent to the area to establish the objective data on pollution. i do not think that such an investigation can be carried out unilaterally by the hungarian authorities alone. thirdly: the inspections. environmental inspections are vital. we have already debated this in parliament. we adopted a resolution on this on 20 november 2008. we want a legislative framework on this urgently. environmental inspections must be carried out not only by national inspections but also, and above all, by monitoring and supervising the supervisors. a check on the controllers. we urgently need good environmental inspection throughout europe, and above all good implementation of environmental directives.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, perhaps i may begin where mr schulz left off. maybe we could ask for a convention now if they want to change the treaty. normally, what we have to do is to ask for a convention. that is the first thing to do, but things are not that far advanced, i think. what we need now is to make an urgent deal in the european council on economic governance and strengthening the stability pact. it is now nearly a year since the start of the greek debt crisis. it started in december 2009, and it is now time to arrive at a conclusion, an agreement, on this. there are, in fact, three proposals on the table at the moment. let us be clear about that. we have received the proposal from the commission, the proposal from the task force and, yesterday, the proposal under what we call ‘the deal of deauville’. that is the third one on the table. and it is good, i think, that this parliament is analysing the differences between the three proposals to decide if they are appropriate. the commission made what were, i think, good, bold and coherent proposals a few weeks ago. the task force proposal differs from them in that it proposes that the council should act on the basis of recommendations and not proposals from the commission. that is a big difference, because recommendations can be changed and proposals from the commission cannot. in addition, there is a more lengthy procedure for analysis in the task force proposal, which also sets it apart from the commission proposal. however, we have to say that the task force proposal keeps the semi-automatic character of the sanctions and maintains the reverse majority rule that was proposed by the commission. as of yesterday, we have a third proposal, ‘the deal of deauville’. i have to say that an agreement between france and germany can often be helpful for council business, but that this time, on the contrary, it is not. this is because the franco-german deauville proposal simply relies on keeping the old-school qmv within the council, so rather than needing to find a majority to block the automatic commission sanctions, their proposals require such a majority for the sanctions proposed by the commission to be initiated. i think that is an enormous difference, because the semi-automatic character of sanctions in the commission proposal is not present in the deauville proposal. i do not know if you know deauville, but, aside from the beach and some beautiful hotels, there is a casino. we should, therefore, perhaps be speaking not of the deauville deal but rather of the franco-german casino compromise, because a casino compromise is what it is. under this proposal, member states are allowed to go on playing with the euro and the euro zone. if you have enough support in the council, you can go for it, you can do exactly what greece did. if you have enough support in the council, go for it. faites vos jeux! you can go for it. the first part of the deauville deal simply weakens not just the task force proposal but, above all, the commission package. i find this completely incomprehensible, certainly from germany. for ten months they have been asking for bolder sanctions, and yesterday they did just the opposite. it amounts to a weakening of the bold proposals of the commission. and this comes at precisely the time when mr trichet, the president of the european central bank, is asking for bolder solutions, for bolder proposals, even bolder than the initial proposals by the commission. my conclusion is that this parliament has one mission: to reverse the deauville deal, or the casino compromise. let us stick to the good proposals from the commission and carry out our necessary legislative task.
mr president, i would like to address the commission and the council just to point out the three shortcomings that the european governance project presents to us. first deficit, we have extremely strict discipline on what is deficit and debt and we have extremely flexible, or loose, discipline on what is investment, and i am thinking of europe 2020. we really need to have equally strong discipline on both sides, because austerity alone is not going to restore economic activity. secondly, it is clear that if we are to exercise control over expenditure, we must also ensure that we have the necessary revenue. i have often said that there can be no coordination at the budgetary level without coordination at the fiscal level. thirdly, we consider the democratic deficit to be a deficit, and this is particularly striking to me in the proposals of the task force. for the latter, parliament obviously does not exist and i think that is unacceptable.
in writing. mr president, one of the most striking features of the recommendations is the tax on financial transactions. with a measure like this, you can catch several flies in one fell swoop: it is an effective instrument against speculation, and the proceeds can be used to tackle government deficits and finance vital social projects (environment, development aid, infrastructure projects, etc.). parliament has now made it clear that we in europe must continue with this measure, even if the rest of the world is temporarily sitting on its hands in fear of the cold. the next step is a feasibility study by the european commission. what we have decided today is a concrete intervention and a response to the financial crisis. it is also a clear signal to europeans that we are learning from all the mistakes of recent years and that we are also taking advantage of the crisis to make europe stronger, in the interests of european citizens in particular.
in writing. despite the significant measures proposed in mrs figueiredo's resolution on the role of the minimum income in combating poverty and promoting an inclusive society in europe, i regret that the majority of the european parliament was not more ambitious. as a socialist, i believe that a framework directive is essential to combat effectively the poverty which affects 17% of the european population. this framework directive, proposed by my colleague frédéric daerden, would establish the principle of an adequate minimum income in europe, which must be determined on the basis of criteria common to all member states and in accordance with national collective bargaining practices or national law. we must be ambitious for a more social europe!
in writing. eur 142.650 billion, this is the budget for 2011 adopted by the european parliament this afternoon. a narrow budget, almost similar to the one proposed by the european commission, and voted against the background of austerity. yet we all know that europe cannot do more and better with less money! that is why i am pleading with many meps, including the budget commissioner, janusz lewandowski, for the european union to have its own resources: a financing mechanism which would ensure autonomy and room for manoeuvre vis-à-vis those member states which, whether in crisis or not, have long since abandoned the idea of giving europe the means to achieve its ambitions. and i see at least two reasons why the european budget should not be curbed. the first is the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the new european competences in the fields of foreign policy, energy, financial supervision, to name a few. the second concerns the new 2020 strategy, which is supposed to put europe back on the track of sustainable growth, big work and innovation. new challenges and skills that will require a lot of funding! the only solution is direct eu funding.
in writing. this vote by a large majority is a strong signal to me that we are sending to the council: in addition to extending maternity leave from 14 to 20 weeks with full compensation, we voted in favour of introducing paternity leave of 2 weeks. it is our duty to ensure that no one has to choose to sacrifice their children for their work or their work for their children. i also welcome the fact that parliament has voted in favour of provisions which make it possible to equate adoptive mothers legally with birth mothers. a parliament finally recognized equal rights for adoptive and biological mothers. adoptive parents are parents in their own right and deserve to be treated as such. the laws can no longer continue to discriminate against this kind of parenting! so it is a great day for many families who are unable to balance family life and work life. and it is not because the economic situation is difficult that we have decided to leave all these families, who also make a considerable contribution to our society, on the sidelines for decades to come.
in writing. the extension of maternity leave is an important project for the place of babies and parenting in our society. i support the proposal to grant 18 weeks of maternity leave and the principle of paternity leave. the perverse effects of overly generous measures which risk discrimination in recruitment must be avoided. i am also in favour of giving more freedom of choice to pregnant women and women who have recently given birth. they should be able to decide when they wish to take the non-compulsory part of their maternity leave. this should help them to better reconcile their private and professional lives and preserve their employability. it is also important to develop a genuine status for the returning woman who, after a career break, wishes to return to work. i would also draw attention to the fact that the right to parental leave and the guarantee of return to work must be afforded to employers, especially in small and mediumsized enterprises, which may otherwise hesitate to hire or promote women of childbearing age.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report on the proposal for a directive on the implementation of measures to promote the improvement of the safety and health of pregnant workers, workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding at work and measures to help workers reconcile work and family life. we have extended and improved maternity leave and, for the first time in european history, we have introduced paternity leave. this vote will be a milestone in the history of the fundamental rights of european mothers and fathers. i say to all those who want to sacrifice social rights on the altar of the economic crisis that they should go and get the money where it is and not penalize the citizens any further. a more comfortable maternity leave and the creation of paternity leave are also struggles for a society that is a little more humane, where the family is increasingly the last refuge from the torments of life.
in writing. - president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to maintain our prosperity and to be able to pay for pensions, more men and women must go to work and stay at work. we must therefore, even in times of intense international competition and budgetary constraints, dare to take measures which invest in families and which alleviate the pressure of combining work and family life. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. that is why i am in favour of extending maternity leave. but in difficult budgetary times, we must be realistic. twenty weeks with full pay is not feasible for social security and the government budget. although i am in favour of extending maternity leave, i abstained on that basis in the final vote. i do, however, support the original commission proposal to extend maternity leave to 18 weeks, while maintaining the current capped benefit system. i hope that this proposal will have a better chance of passing the second reading in parliament.
in writing. i voted for the estrela report because i do not want to create any misunderstanding about this: it goes without saying that women have special needs during and immediately after pregnancy and that society as a whole has a great interest in this and therefore a great responsibility. i would like to ask a few questions of principle. first of all: is it really reasonable to impose from our european ivory towers mandatory rules that will apply throughout the union, including the member states that have a long way to go economically? and who's gonna pay for that? and that brings us to the second fundamental observation: is it reasonable to place the burden of these measures on the shoulders of employers alone? will this not ultimately lead to fewer jobs for young women - because employers will not be inclined to bear the "risks" of pregnancy of their young workers all alone? it is easy to vote 'social' in this parliament. but we are not the ones who have to bear the burden of this social voting behaviour.
in writing. by adopting by an overwhelming majority the report by my colleague barbara weiler on the proposal for a directive on late payment, the european parliament has created balanced and clear rules that support solvency, innovation and employment. small businesses and public hospitals will benefit from the measures we propose. the former will no longer face financial problems due to late payments and the latter will be able to benefit from an extension of the payment deadline to 60 days due to their special nature, the financing coming from reimbursements under social security systems. the agreement we should have with the council will also allow the directive to enter into force quickly and be transposed by the member states as from january 2011. i welcome the efficiency of this vote.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have just voted on the new directive on combating late payment and i have given my full support to the agreement. excessive payment delays and certain late payments threaten the sound management of a company, affect its competitiveness and profitability and may ultimately endanger the survival of the company. the current directive is not sufficient to reduce the backlog of payments. i therefore support tightening up the existing rules. we are providing additional security for companies in terms of maximum payment periods, since payments must in principle be made within 30 days. this is certainly important for payments between enterprises and public authorities. the member states and their governments must now set the right example. it is a matter of credibility that the european institutions will also respect the same legal deadlines. the fact that the directive clearly states that contractual deviation from standard payment terms is only possible for objective and not unfair reasons will be an important factor in its enforcement. finally, i hope that the fixed compensation for collection costs will put late payers on the right track, or better yet keep them on the right track. our businesses and our jobs will be lost.
in writing. i have always called for, and this was already included in my electoral programme for the 2009 european elections, the introduction of a minimum income equivalent to 60% of the average income for each citizen of the union, but today the assembly unfortunately did not vote on this legislative initiative at community level. in this european year 2010 of the fight against poverty, i am convinced that a framework directive on minimum income could have served as a reference text for national policies and legislation. i think that was the most effective way to reduce poverty and to get 20 million people out of poverty by 2020. it is worth noting that 80 million people in europe live below the poverty line.
in writing. to lift 20 million european citizens out of poverty by 2020 is the ambitious goal of the europe 2020 strategy. this objective may remain a wish if europe does not take action against the growing impoverishment which now affects more than 80 million citizens. this is why it is important to introduce a minimum subsistence income at european level or to make it general in all member states. the minimum income is already playing a role in combating social exclusion, as it is thought to be the "last safety net". the commission's work is now to be made more effective by keeping in mind three key ideas: maintaining the difference between the amount of the wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, since the work must remain attractive and be professionally integrated, is still the best way to avoid falling into poverty. include the minimum income in a coordinated and comprehensive policy of assistance to vulnerable populations (access to housing and care, childcare facilities, home help). the commission is also proposing to introduce a minimum income as a means of providing financial support to a person or family in difficulty at a given time.
in writing. i welcome this vote because it was important to finally raise the issue of sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the stability and growth pact (sgp), which is all too often lightly trampled on by the member states. an effective incentive and sanction mechanism for the implementation of the sgp should be established to help prevent any worsening of the current crisis and to ensure that a new crisis is prevented in the future. that is why i supported the paragraph calling on the commission to establish a binding system of sanctions which is unambiguously within its competence to oblige member states to comply with the rules of the sgp.
in writing. i support the report by mrs pervenche berès, which calls for more europe, not less europe, for more efficiency and less bureaucracy, for the union to speak with one voice on the international scene... despite the return of growth, we must not make the mistake of thinking that the economic crisis is completely behind us and, more importantly, that we have dealt with its causes. one lesson to be learned from this crisis is the absence of global governance (absence of world state). we need a more equitable distribution of wealth between countries and within each country. the real crisis is here. that is why i am in favour of the european council convening a g20 summit devoted exclusively to this issue. on development, i would stress, as stated in mrs pervenche berès' report, the importance for the member states of respecting their 2005 commitments on official development assistance. there is no justification for a reduction in official development assistance. official development assistance (oda) must continue to increase and must not suffer the consequences of the financial crisis.
in writing. the economic, financial and social crisis has shown the limits of the european model of economic governance. that is why we need an agreement at the next european council on economic governance and the stability pact. reforms are urgently needed to make a qualitative leap in economic governance and to establish transparent and targeted monitoring instruments. i am in favour of mr diego feio's report because it supports the commission's proposal, which i believe is a balanced compromise proposal. i am in favour of greater parliamentary involvement in the economic governance of the union and of centralising at european level the exclusive powers of supervision of large crossborder financial institutions. i also think it would be useful to provide the union with its own financial resources to help it plan its actions and activities.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. all these instruments are relatively young, and on top of that, very new. because there was nothing like it before, and there are very few examples of the kind of instruments the european union is working on anywhere else in the world or in other international or supranational institutions. in view of the new nature of the instrument, it was therefore wisely agreed to evaluate it after a few years and to adapt it where necessary. that's what we're dealing with here this afternoon. however, other important changes have taken place. we now have a high representative who is also vice-president of the commission. we shall be adopting during this part-session the basic texts on the european external action service, the diplomatic arm of the european union. that is also a very important innovation. and last but not least, the powers of this parliament have been considerably extended. we have already made full use of them and, as is often the case with young institutions, we are pushing as far as we can to make the new powers as effective as possible. so there is a discussion going on with the other institutions to see where the boundaries are exactly. i am also satisfied with what both commissioner piebalgs and the presidency in office have said about the will to reach an agreement on this. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. i also hope that this parliament will not play its hand too much, as they say in english. finally, with regard to the stability instrument - i have a few seconds left - i should like to say that i very much welcome the statements made by commissioner piebalgs, who says that the intention is indeed to concentrate on the fight against the trade in small arms and light weapons. that the intention is to involve ngos more closely in the operation of the stability instrument, and to make full use of the even newer peacebuilding toolkit. if that happens, you will have the full support of our group.
mr president, i am very embarrassed because i would have liked to have been part of this discussion. i very much doubt that the american model is more efficient than the european model. the american model, when it comes to human rights, is essentially selective and directly concerned because in fact, the american model is first of all active bilateralism. i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr charles goerens, for his work in strengthening the development dimension of the approach and i would of course like to thank commissioner piebalgs for his attentive and favourable listening to this request. i have three quick remarks. firstly, the rapid disappearance of community preferences can and will lead to dramatic consequences in certain acp countries which are still banana exporters. including consequences that will directly affect the ability of these states to participate in sustainable development. i would therefore like to advocate a reasonable and somewhat flexible interpretation of the criteria for granting aid. aid should be given as a priority to acp countries wishing to maintain their banana sector because of its impact on the sustainable development of their country. in this connection it would have been useful - this had been requested but could not be obtained - to have an ex ante impact study on the situation of banana exporting countries. two other general considerations, but i shall certainly come back to them in the coming weeks. in my view, the best way to channel this aid is, without doubt, general budgetary aid where possible, sectoral aid where desirable. it may also have been useful to have a debate on the amount of aid and on the member states' compliance with the commitments made in 2005. it's at the heart of the debate. and what i have heard from some of my colleagues here has me very worried. clearly, selfishness is in the air. i have to tell you, this is quite surprising. finally, to answer a number of questions, i would also like to revive the idea of budgeting the european development fund, which of course allows us to have direct control over the commission's political action.
on behalf of the s&d group, president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group i would like to join the comments and questions put by the chairman of the committee on transport, brian simpson. the loss of containers, and of course of their contents - for we must not forget that this is also what is at stake - is undoubtedly an underestimated and under-exposed problem. as i said, this is the case for as many as 2000 containers in european waters alone, every year. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the current crisis. so it's something we have to address. there are several reasons: bad weather, speed, poor fastening and stacking of containers, overweight, etc. my group believes that there is a european dimension to the commission's initiative. we must not wait passively for imo measures. in particular, initiatives could be taken to record such incidents, to make european ports aware of this problem and in the context of the social dialogue, the european social dialogue in the port sector, the commission could tackle the issue and propose solutions, such as new procedures for loading containers or adapted training. the traceability of containers, as mr riquet has emphasized, is also very useful. not only in this context, but also in the context of the control of the entire logistical process. so, commissioner, i expect some more concrete initiatives in the coming months and years.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs meissner for her excellent work and the way in which she has succeeded in achieving a broad consensus on her report. i would also like to take this opportunity, as coordinator of my group, to pay tribute to our former colleague willi piecyk, who sadly passed away two years ago and who did pioneering work in this parliament to give shape to an integrated european maritime policy - something we can build on today. it is clear that this is a complex sector with many aspects and that we must do many things to achieve our objective. first of all, we must create a new dynamism in the sector, which directly and indirectly creates many jobs throughout europe and is particularly essential for the development of our coastal and port areas, through good structures and appropriate measures. the structure has already been mentioned, and that includes european structures. the european maritime agency should be effectively given a greater role and be strengthened, and given the corresponding competences and resources. the oil disaster and the extraction of oil were also discussed. i think it should be clear that emsa will have to be more explicit in this respect in the next adjustment of powers. emsa should also play a major role in promoting cooperation between national inspection services, coastguards, etc. of the member states. there are also, of course, major environmental challenges. shipping pollutes more than it should. so there is still room for great improvement. we are talking about sulphur standards that should be the same everywhere, about an emissions trading system - and i call on the commission to really keep the pressure on the boiler in the imo. and then, of course, we need a good spatial arrangement. finally, one last word. i think it is also important that social measures are taken to make the profession attractive again to young people.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, in agreement with the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, a slight amendment would be necessary to underline the need for a global agreement within the international maritime organisation on environmental measures. the outcome of the 61st meeting of the international maritime organization's marine environment protection committee a few weeks ago is mentioned. immediately after this, the following words should be added, and i shall reproduce them in english: "and maintaining its call for further substantial progress within the imo".
in writing. it was necessary in exceptional circumstances that the costs relating to taxes, duties and other fiscal charges relating to the financing of actions under the development cooperation financing instrument (dci) be financed from the dci budget. the icd has the overall objective of poverty eradication in the context of sustainable development, including efforts to achieve the millennium development goals (mdgs). this amendment will provide greater flexibility in the implementation of the geographical and thematic programmes. it will help partner countries to achieve the mdgs and better integrate into the global economy.
in writing. the introduction of a european marking system for manufactured products imported from third countries should enable consumers to know exactly which country of origin the products they are buying come from. they will thus be able to identify these products with the social, environmental and safety standards that are generally associated with that country. european consumers have the right to know where the products they buy come from and therefore enjoy the same rights as citizens of other countries. it will also help to establish a level playing field with many of our trading partners who already impose compulsory origin marking on imported goods. it is essential to ensure a level playing field with producers in the union's main partners. i think that these rules could also help to increase exports from developing countries, since many european consumers are keen to defend small and craft enterprises in these countries against multinationals. finally, because of the specific nature of pharmaceutical products, i share the view that they should not be included in the list.
author. - mr president, this humanitarian emergency is taking place against a backdrop of political disagreement between mugabe and tsvangirai, and this disagreement is crystallizing around the request that the european union not accept the new ambassadors who have been unilaterally appointed by mugabe. but this humanitarian emergency is linked to elections and the political gains that can be made by driving people out of the housing estates in which they live. let us remember, in june 2005, as we have said, operation murambatsvina, a city that had seen the heavy intervention of mugabe's bulldozers for strictly electoral purposes and where 700 000 people had lost their homes. bis repetita, today 20,000 of zimbabwe's poorest people living in the hatcliffe extension housing estates not far from harare are threatened with eviction on the grounds that they cannot pay the exorbitant rents that are demanded of them; the manoeuvre is pretty big. we should also remember that the humanitarian and economic situation continues to deteriorate for millions of zimbabweans, that the aids rate is the fourth highest in the world and that infant mortality is steadily rising. there are so many reasons at this time for this urgency and for a strong appeal to the entire international community so that, i will not say this pseudo-reconciliation within the unity government of zimbabwe, but this reconciliation, at any rate, does not dissolve today in these warlike preparations on the eve of the elections.
author. - mr president, this is an emergency dominated by the sometimes controversial personality of sam rainsy, but it must not make us forget the real democratic challenge behind this case. so rainsy, as we have said, is a liberal personality and he is opposed to the leader hun sen. mr rainsy had previously served an 18-month prison sentence and was pardoned in 2006. he accused hun sen of ordering the 1997 grenade attack. today he was convicted of - and this was said to be symbolic - moving the boundaries of the disputed border between vietnam and cambodia and circulating so-called false maps. twelve years in absentia is a long time, but, in fact, the game is clear. all they want is to prevent him from running in the next elections in 2013, and he is the leader of the second largest political opposition party in the country. so we have a tense political climate in cambodia, we have elections coming up, we have electoral maneuvers, but we also have an authoritarian drift, and i would like to mention, beyond the case of rainsy, the case of ngo representatives being prosecuted, the case of the mp sochua, convicted for defamation against the prime minister, the journalist hang chakra, detained for exposing corruption in the entourage of the deputy prime minister, sok an, etc. i would therefore simply like to remind you, as has been said, that we are donors, that we have a cooperation agreement where fundamental freedoms must be respected. i also ask for a humanitarian emergency plan for the people, the populations affected by the construction and textile crisis. it's important too.
in writing. president, ladies and gentlemen, with tomorrow's vote the eu is putting into action what was agreed at the g20 in london. following the agreement on financial supervision, the european parliament and the belgian presidency have shown that they are committed to reforming the financial system. the agreement reached is balanced in that it addresses three concerns: to manage systemic risk, protect investors and ensure a level playing field. it is also important that the eu does not close its market to non-eu capital, which is an absolute requirement to give our european economy the necessary oxygen. the new harmonised rules will ensure transparency, legal certainty and a strengthened internal market. in particular, the european passport will allow administrators to operate throughout the european union without having to register separately in each member state. i also want to stress that i am satisfied with the solution that has been found for private equity. the more flexible regime applicable to small fund managers encourages the creation and financing of new enterprises in innovative sectors, often smes. we must therefore support with conviction the political agreement reached after 14 months of negotiations.
mr president, commissioner, allow me to welcome the single market act, and in particular the inclusion of the social and social economy concepts. i imagine that you have had some difficulties in the current commission. i would like to mention three examples, however, where i remain full of expectations, where at this stage i remain somewhat hungry. firstly, and mrs gebhardt has mentioned this, class actions. because we've been consulting for 20 years. the commission has been consulting since commissioner van miert took the initiative. i hope, of course, that one day we will see this file become a reality. another example is the passengers. you are using the eruption of the icelandic volcano to finally change the rules on air passengers, but for the last ten years we have been asking for a comprehensive regulation on the rights of all passengers. when will we have it? i think that there is a legitimate impatience in this respect. let's not talk about public services. we are waiting for a framework directive. what are we gonna have? you announce a communication and actions. commissioner, i am counting on your pragmatic approach to make the single market act more than a catalogue of good intentions.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative, and i hope that the council will take it up again. a feeling of reading something i've been reading for many years. firstly, once again there are too many material errors in the sectors of agriculture, the cohesion fund, research and development, external aid, development cooperation and education. secondly, the monitoring and control systems are only partially effective in preventing and correcting the reimbursement of over-declared or ineligible costs. the fundamental problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that the member states are not doing what they should be doing, namely, properly monitoring the money they pay out to beneficiaries. this is 80% of the european budget. the fundamental problem also remains that the commission does not sufficiently monitor what the member states do in this respect. that is why i am indeed following the rapporteur's strategy, which will be to ensure that we once again ask for national management declarations signed by the finance ministers. secondly, that the commission should finally take action against those member states which fail to do so and impose severe sanctions, financial sanctions if necessary, and the withholding of subsidies. i think this is the way we should go.
the point is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by kathleen van brempt, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 663/2009 establishing an economic recovery assistance programme by granting community financial assistance to projects in the field of energy (com (2010) 0283 - c7-0139/2010 - 2010/0150 (cod)) ((a7-0246/2010).
- i'm the reporter. - the report by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (91) 0173 - c3-0314/91) for a regulation amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (91) 0173 - c3-0414/91) the report and the legislation it deals with have a history in this parliament. this is mainly due to the recovery plan launched in 2009 in response to the economic crisis. then, at european level, 4 billion euros were released, mainly with the aim of working towards economic recovery. the aim was to finance energy projects in particular. large-scale energy projects, based on carbon capture and storage, based on infrastructure and a number of large offshore wind projects. at that time - and of course parliament approved it - there were a lot of concerns from various quarters and from parliament, particularly as regards the large scale and whether something would generate enough employment. but the main criticism was about energy efficiency. a political agreement was reached then, and what we have today is the result of that. you would think that if there was a political agreement between parliament, the council and the commission to invest the surpluses together in energy efficiency, it would be an easy report and easy negotiations. that's not the case. we have had difficult negotiations, particularly with the council. but i can say that we have - and we have had to compromise, let us be clear about that - succeeded in most respects. and i want to go over them briefly, because they are very important for the proper interpretation of what is available in funds now and how they should be implemented in the very near future. first of all: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm a very big supporter of renewable energy, but we know that if we want to get results really fast, we have to put everything we have into energy efficiency: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of the community's electricity system. unlikely to be important. we are also working on industrial policy and will certainly come back to that. secondly: and that's very much linked to energy efficiency, at the local level. europe very often works almost exclusively with national member states, and the previous one was also mainly geared to large projects. well, this is fundamentally different. it focuses on the local level, on cities and municipalities, on small-scale projects that can be implemented immediately, will produce immediate results and therefore have a huge impact, not only on energy efficiency, but also on employment, and that remains extremely important. thirdly: the commission the last big recovery plan was what we call "upfront" financing. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. that's the way europe works. this fund is not, and that's why it's very innovative. the funds are being used in such a way that there is support to finance these projects through guarantees and other financial means. with the exception of technical assistance, which is still financed upfront, this means that there will be a major leverage effect. you have to multiply that 146 million by about eight to know what the effect might be. i come to the last point, which we have long been baking about: the cap on the money, the money we have available. parliament would have liked to have seen things differently. that was the deal, by the way, let's be clear about that. all the resources that were left over had to be invested in this project. we made a compromise: all the money that is left today is in the account, and i am convinced - and i think that if we continue to work together as we have done, we can also make it incredibly successful for us - that this will mean that this project will have a long life. one more second, mr president, i know i'm late. i would like to thank once again all those who have contributed to it, in particular all the shadow rapporteurs. i found it a particularly pleasant cooperation, and i say this not out of politeness, but simply because it was a very nice and good cooperation. thank you.
i would like to congratulate mrs van brempt and her colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, on this important legislative initiative. i think that this regulation can indeed be a powerful stimulus for energy efficiency projects and the exploitation of renewable energy sources. the emphasis is on renewable energy, and i particularly welcome some of the special accents. accents like: energy saving, micro-coupled heat and power, integration of decentralised and locally integrated renewable energy sources into electricity networks; the commission has also taken into account the fact that the aid is not intended to cover the costs of the operation of the plant. the emphasis mrs van brempt and her colleagues are placing on the efficient outdoor lighting of public infrastructure and, finally, on the search for solutions for electricity storage is promising. thank you for this job. i hope this can be a new step towards a real green new deal.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, as a belgian member of parliament, it was a real pleasure to come here on a day off and to be able to work in the european parliament within fifty minutes of my home town, but this is completely unrelated. i'll be brief, please. let me thank everyone who has spoken today, without exception. there were some comments here and there. there are many good examples. but the red line is the enthusiasm for what's ahead. i am not without criticism, because i can criticise the cap on money that has been set. there is a lot of enthusiasm because this is a good fund, because there is money, because it is about energy efficiency and renewable energy and because it gives us as members of the european parliament the opportunity to work on this project locally. that's what it takes. what is our joint responsibility? of course, the commission, the european investment bank and other partners in this story have the primary responsibility, but the european parliament and we politicians also have the responsibility to ensure that this project is successful, that it is attractive and that the involvement at local level is so great that the 146 million is multiplied, so to speak, not by 8, but by 80, because a lot is being set in motion. i have great confidence in the commission and the commissioner in that respect. i know this is a project that the commissioner cares about. he also has very good staff - i have experienced that in the last few months - and that will be very important in the development of this project. finally - i forgot it just now and it is really not very nice of me, especially as a belgian - i would like to stress that the belgian presidency has made an exceptional achievement in this. in fact, from the very beginning, there was a large majority in the council against this project. it is thanks to the great efforts of minister paul magnette and his team that we now have a very good compromise, which i think we will be very enthusiastic about approving.
i voted against the mann report because it is a politically correct self-deception. although the mass immigration of the last 20 years has had disastrous socioeconomic, social and political consequences, it has chosen to allow even more immigration from outside the european union. i find paragraph 110 particularly cynical, which states that 'the creation of support for legal immigration among the population in the host countries is directly dependent on correct, comprehensive information'. in fact, in plain english, what is meant is that there should be more unilateral government propaganda for the utter failure of multiculturalism and mass immigration. because if you want accurate, comprehensive information about immigration policy, you have to finally do a cost-benefit analysis of it, and that's exactly what the immigration lobby doesn't want.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. i was wrong about the report and i also had a written statement on the eu-us summit, so i would ask you if i could bring it along later.
in writing. the resolution on the forthcoming eu-us summit and the transatlantic council aims to reaffirm the transatlantic agenda and strengthen eu-us cooperation on issues of common interest. this relationship remains a major priority for the eu. in addition to the fact that the eu and the us share a number of common interests and values such as promoting peace, democracy, respect for human rights and a market economy, europe and the us are linked by the world's largest bilateral trade and investment relationship: the $4.28 trillion transatlantic economy. the reality is that we are increasingly economically integrated. this relationship is also very important in terms of development cooperation, since together, the us and the eu provide almost 80% of development aid. finally, our partnership is more than necessary to advance world stability and to discuss the major multilateral issues, namely climate change, energy, the economic and financial crisis, crisis management, development cooperation, regional issues, non-proliferation and disarmament, security.
in writing. i fully share the objective of preventing and combating terrorism and other serious forms of transnational crime. more and more countries are using passenger data in this context. however, in the digital age, it is essential to pay particular attention to the respect for and protection of civil liberties and fundamental rights, including the right to privacy and data protection. the essential principles to be given priority in this area are necessity and proportionality. the collection of transit data must not only be useful but necessary. the principle of proportionality must also prevent the measures envisaged from going beyond what is necessary to achieve the objectives pursued. thus, there can be no question of using the data for the purpose of exploiting it or profiling it. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament has played a major role in the approval of these agreements and should therefore be fully and regularly informed of all developments in the field of pnr data.
in writing. the steady increase in life expectancy of european citizens is excellent news, promoting intergenerational exchange and dynamism. on the contrary, viewed from the perspective of the sustainability of our pension systems, the ageing of the population is a real headache for policy makers and those who are concerned with budgetary balance. if we add to this the low birth rate in many of the 27 member states, intergenerational solidarity is like proust's madeleine of european societies. paraphrasing thomas mann's excellent report, europe must meet the demographic challenge, and jean bodin's famous phrase: "there is no wealth but in men" is now becoming very true! to maintain a just and united society, that is to say to refuse the transfer of public debts to future generations and to promote a balance between the number of pensioners and the number of assets, there is no single solution. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one.
in writing. the thomas mann report on the demographic challenge and solidarity between generations highlights the challenges of demographic change, including unemployment and precarious work, education and discrimination against vulnerable groups. it stresses the need for solidarity between generations and makes relevant suggestions, including an initiative for a european pact for people aged 50 and over, including the fight against age discrimination, the goal of full employment up to the legal retirement age and assistance for the reintegration of older people with disabilities. i abstained in the final vote, although this report was more than satisfactory, because paragraph 24 calling for the abolition of the mandatory retirement age was retained. but if we do not have safeguards to enable our elderly to retire, we will not be able to ensure that they have a happy end to their lives. i refuse to let our elders work until they die like in the 19th century.
in writing. there is growing discouragement from researchers, research institutes, universities and businesses towards the research framework programmes due to the complexity of the calls for tenders launched by the european commission. the 2020 strategy aims to improve the framework conditions and access to finance for research and innovation, to ensure that innovative ideas can be transformed into products and services that create growth and jobs. therefore, in the interests of efficiency and in order to promote the highest quality research, it was highly desirable to simplify the implementation of the research framework programmes. we had to take measures to remain attractive in order to attract and keep the best scientists in europe and to remain competitive in a global economy. i welcome the draft report which seeks to promote a balance between trust and control, between risk taking and risk prevention, while ensuring sound financial management.
in writing. this resolution on the livestock sector is yet another call by parliament to take account of the growing difficulties faced by our european farmers. while the latter have to comply with increasingly stringent rules on traceability, hygiene, animal welfare and environmental protection, they are now seeing their production costs skyrocket: fuel, fertilisers and, above all, cereals now account for 60% of the total cost. we call on the commission and commissioner cioloş to take more measures to curb price volatility and create a safety net. our farmers must survive the pressure of imports and work in a fair and competitive market. because no one pays for work, we simply want to enable them to live from their work.
in writing. i was receptive to the reading of the original motion for a resolution on the current crisis in the eu livestock sector, which denounces in particular the lack of transparency in the food chain, making producers and consumers the weak links in the agri-food chain, the extreme volatility of the eu markets and the eu dairy sector in particular, the distortions of competition between eu producers and those in third countries subject to less stringent regulations on food quality and safety, and calls for the need for effective market regulation and a strong cap budget post-2013. but i would also like to denounce the adoption of this resolution and, in particular, amendments nos 1, 2 and 3, which open the way to the presence of genetically modified soya and maize from third countries on european territory and to the return of animal meal to the diet of non-ruminants when food safety cannot be guaranteed. that is why i have taken my responsibility in voting against this joint resolution, which is contrary to the precautionary principle which should inspire us all!
i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur. mrs evans has a remarkable perseverance, which is why we have reached a compromise today that the s&d group can support. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for the work he has done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thirdly, and this is very important to me personally, a good methodology, which has been heavily negotiated by parliament, which should ensure that substances are reviewed to see what their possible effects might be. in addition, there are a number of substances (hbcdd) - i have to look at my paper for that - one of the most widely used and controversial brominated flame retardants and three important phthalates which will be dealt with as a matter of priority. of course, there are also steps forward with regard to nanomaterials. we would have gone much further, but we are glad that the commission is now coming forward with a statement on this - very important. would we have gone further? yes, of course, we are dissatisfied with some aspects. naturally, we in our group would have liked to see a number of additional substances banned, a more rapid review and fewer exceptions. as for the latter, i cannot fail to return to the solar panels. the s&d group was the only group to oppose to the last moment a totally wrong idea to keep solar panels out of the scope. a special lobby has been set up to this end, and i think it is completely wrong, because this will allow cadmium, a substance which we have banned since 2003, to continue to be used for at least the next ten years. i find that particularly regrettable, especially for a sector which should be taking the lead in this area. nevertheless, the s&d group will be happy to support this compromise. i only hope that the edf group has not got the wrong file, because i did not see much of the edf during the trilogue.
- i'm the reporter. - the resolution which we are hoping to adopt on thursday is a very important signal. it shows that there is a great deal of support in this parliament for our typical european media model, which allows for both commercial broadcasting on the one hand and public broadcasting, public media companies, on the other. that model, mr president, is typically european, because you will hardly find it in the united states or japan, let alone in china. the dual media model has proved to be the best guarantee of media pluralism, of independent editorial independence and of press freedom in general in most of the member states of the european union. but unfortunately, that model is under heavy pressure in the european union. the pressure comes from all sides. this is due to the heavy cuts faced by the competent national or regional authorities, but also to the great pressure exerted by the private media companies on public broadcasters. they consider public service broadcasters to be representatives of unfair competition, especially on the internet. this overall situation means that public service broadcasting in a number of member states of the european union is having a real difficulty in keeping its head above water. this puts the delicate balance of the dual system on the line, and it is compromised. we must now do everything we can to ensure that our european media model survives these turbulent times and that it is anchored in the future. this requires a number of measures, which we shall set out in the resolution. the first point, and i do not know whether this body is aware of it, is that all the member states of the european union formally committed themselves at that time within the council of europe to guaranteeing freedom of the press. this includes a clearly defined mandate and funding for public service broadcasting. long-term funding is important. it is time that we as the european parliament reminded all 27 member states that they made those commitments at the time and that they must also honour them. another point: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the media are free to express their views. that is why we want to use the so-called media pluralism monitor. that is an instrument which has been developed, commissioner, at the initiative of the commission. it is a very useful instrument that can serve as a beacon in a number of member states, in a number of regions where media diversity and media pluralism are threatened. and then, last but not least, i think the biggest challenge for all media is to be online, digitally on the internet. the growing nervousness - we might even say growing hostility - towards initiatives of the public broadcasters on the internet is worrying. some colleagues in politics, and particularly in national politics and also in the media, seem to forget that clear agreements were made last year on the online activities of public broadcasting, and it is important that they are respected. i think that we should also develop models in which search engines and internet service providers also play a part. i'm going round. i think we can no longer sit on the sidelines, or we will wake up at some point to find that google and youtube and apple have taken over our media landscape. that is, of course, absolutely undesirable.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, our sympathy goes first and foremost to the victims. in my country four people drowned, and i hear that in other countries hundreds, thousands of people have suffered enormous financial and emotional losses in their businesses and in their homes. of course, our thoughts go to them first. in the last few weeks, months, even years, many member states have had problems with water, with floods, with floods. i have a question for the commission. do you think it would be useful in evaluating what has happened now to bring together experts from the different member states, from the different regions, and to have those people give an opinion on what has happened? so we can get a better idea of what's causing it. it is a very complex matter, but i think that if we can understand the causes better, we can also talk to those experts about measures. i think that a risk analysis by river basin, as we do for the environment in the water directive, is appropriate here. and also consultation on preventive measures. how can we prevent such a disaster? because it will still rain heavily and very concentrated, because that is the cause. and finally , i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the water is not used in the same way as it is in the past. i would ask the commission to bring together experts to make a proper assessment of the disasters that have now occurred.
for the greens/efa group mr president, on behalf of the greens, i would like to extend my condolences to all the families and people affected by these tragic floods, to all those who have lost loved ones and to all those who have lost some of their property. but i would also like to express my thoughts and my thanks to all the firefighters, rescuers and volunteers who have been very active in the last few weeks in all the affected areas. in the immediate future, and in the months ahead, we must help and compensate the victims. we also need to have a coherent and innovative policy that tackles the root causes of the problem, and i am proposing three types of measures to the commission. first, to implement renovation and construction projects that reduce the water-resistance of the soil, because every time you build an industrial zone, a shopping centre, a housing estate, they have to be apprehended so as not to water-resist the soil a little more. this provision does not apply only to flood-prone areas. secondly, we need to change our farming practices. intensive agricultural policies have made the earth more vulnerable to weather changes. all agri-environmental measures in this direction should therefore be strengthened. finally, the issue of alerting and coordinating local authorities to prepare for and prevent such incidents when they occur. we believe that the information and mobilisation have sometimes been too slow and that more active coordination procedures for the circulation of weather alerts may be needed. i therefore propose that in all its policies - prevention policies and active policies in all other areas - the european union should take stock of this and be able to develop useful policies in this respect, otherwise, in a few months' time, when the next somewhat extreme weather events occur, we will be meeting here to offer our condolences to the victims, to individuals, to families, to businesses. i think we must avoid this and we can do so in all our policies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is now ten years since the united nations security council adopted, for the first time in its history, a resolution highlighting the specific situation of women in war situations and their role in conflict resolution. ten years after that resolution, thousands of women are still being raped in countries at war, such as congo. i myself have spoken out against the impunity enjoyed by the perpetrators of these atrocities for many years. moreover, these atrocities are being committed while un forces are sometimes, and often even, on the ground. i think we are sorely lacking in political ambition and adequate funding. in particular, i stress the need to train the staff of the european and international institutions on the ground and to raise awareness among the victims of the violence. we need to make it clear to everyone that gender mainstreaming improves efficiency in all sectors. we must put an end to the impunity which perpetrators of violence against women too often enjoy and establish an adequate complaint procedure. we also need to increase financial resources within the european institutions for work on gender and human rights, including for implementing mechanisms and assessing the progress of the european union. i note, as minister chastel has said, that efforts have been made, in particular through the exchange of good practice or through participation in a task force. in addition, 10 member states now have a national action plan. i hope that the other 17 member states will do the same soon. i should also like to say that i have high hopes for the future of the foreign service. i hope that it will involve equal participation of women and men, especially on the ground. we must never forget the importance of women in conflict resolution, nor the need for trust-based communication between the forces of international institutions and the people on the ground.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the greens have no objection to public money being invested, provided that this money is the catalyst for the transformation that our society, our industry and our economy must undergo in order to become more just and, above all, more sustainable. and aid to uncompetitive coal mines, let us remember, runs counter to these objectives. it is to keep a business in a state of flux which is not economically sustainable - otherwise it would not need subsidies - or environmentally sustainable. as mrs veldt has just pointed out, the coal industry has been calling for a prolongation of this transition for several decades, with no end in sight. it is also true, ladies and gentlemen, that for several decades many european countries have been trying to put an end to an industry which was not sustainable. this is the case in my country, in france and in many other countries. we therefore support the commission's proposal, with the corollary that the subsidies should be used to enable the workers concerned to undergo a decent and dignified conversion. but now, under the pressure of what you have heard today, the commission is preparing to retire in disgrace, mr almunia. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but that it should be a matter of the member states themselves, and that the commission should be involved in this matter. he's not hiding from it. i would like to say in conclusion that as long as the european union, as long as the member states devote all their energy to supporting the industries of the past with public money which - and i hope the irish crisis reminds us of this - has become something extremely rare, as long as we support with this public money the industries of the 19th century, we will not put europe in a position to conquer leadership positions in the industries of the 21st century. meanwhile, the world is moving, and moving fast.
in writing. the entry into force of the agreement for scientific and technical cooperation between the european union and the government of the faroe islands will allow the faroe islands to participate in all activities under the 7th framework programme of the european union for research, technological development and demonstration activities. despite the small size of the research community, researchers from the faroe islands have already successfully participated in community-funded projects. they have expertise in research areas related to the geographical situation of the faroe islands, including marine resources and the environment. the agreement will allow these researchers to participate in other fields such as energy, food, agriculture, fisheries or biotechnology. regular meetings will identify common research priorities and areas where joint efforts can be mutually beneficial. it will also promote the mobility of students and researchers in higher education.
in writing. - the report (doc. i agree with the rapporteur's position on the directive and also with the explanatory statement in his report. the european union has been operating a transitional vat system since 1993. attempts to move to a so-called definitive system have so far failed. however, this should not be a reason not to keep trying. the vat system is not just a matter of rates or bandwidths, but also of a simple, legally secure system that works well in an internal market, is tailored to smes and is resistant to fraud. the commission's intention to take up this matter again is good news. i would like to encourage the commissioner responsible to work on this difficult dossier.
in writing. should the european union continue to subsidize industrial sectors that are destined to disappear in the long term within the european union? it is this difficult question that we had to answer with the adoption of the rapkay report on state aid for the closure of uncompetitive coal mines. the european commission has proposed a scheduled end to the subsidies by october 2014. a wise proposal that takes into account the negative environmental impact of aid to the coal industry and the need for member states to provide for appropriate measures, for example in the field of energy efficiency, renewable energy or carbon capture and storage. the overwhelming finding is that €1,288 million in production aid for a total of €2.9 billion in subsidies to the coal sector between 2003 and 2008 did nothing to limit the loss of market shares, nor did it allow the 100,000 workers in the sector to be effectively supported in their vocational conversion. i therefore regret that this afternoon the european parliament did not have the courage to say no to the extension of aid to coal mines until the end of 2018 and to turn decisively to new sources of energy, sources of jobs for the european population.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report because the joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) has succeeded, by the quality of its work, in establishing itself as an essential actor in north-south cooperation. the assembly has, for example, played and continues to play a major role in the follow-up of the negotiations of the economic partnership agreements (epas). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by mrs eva joly on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, which is - i repeat - a unique institution in the world in its composition and its willingness to work together to promote north/south interdependence through legislation, but also through democratic dialogue and consultation. i would like to take this opportunity to recall the value of a tax on international financial transactions in helping certain donors to honour their commitments in terms of official development assistance and in helping developing countries to make the necessary adaptations to cope with climate change. i would point out that the monterrey consensus in 2002, the follow-up to the doha conference in 2008 and the high level summit on the millennium development goals in new york in september 2010 all expressed a favourable view of innovative and alternative financing for development and stressed the need for a balanced approach between the economic, social and ecological dimensions of development.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in december 2005 there was a prime minister who sat here in the house. i think one thing we all learned is that we really need to see a seriously reformed budget for the future. let us all together – the commission, the council, member states and the european parliament – work out how in the next few years we can build a consensus for a changed and reformed europe in which the budget is a rational part of the future and not an unfortunate piece of horse-trading. well, that prime minister was tony blair, the man who made the last deal on the financial perspectives. here we are now five years later. what mr blair said is the essential thing that parliament wants to achieve: the engagement of the eu institutions and all involved parties to reinvent the financing of the union and to base this financing on rational grounds and not on a horse-trading competition, which is the case today. on the figures, let us be very clear, it is no secret that parliament could be ready to accept the council figures, of course within a broader deal. but we need also to agree on a second element, colleagues, which is flexibility. let us be very clear on this. that flexibility is not a concession from the council side; flexibility is necessary, indispensable, otherwise we cannot finance a number of important issues. what is more is that flexibility is an ‘aquis’. it forms part of the interinstitutional agreement that we have already. in fact, the council has broken its word by refusing this now in this budget. finally, and this is the most important thing, we must agree on the future financing of the union. therefore the issue of own resources must be reopened; no doubt about it. let me be clear that own resources is not a question of changing the treaties. own resources is also not a question of new competencies. it is a question of applying the existing treaties and it is a question of financing existing competencies, because the union was always meant to have its own revenue. mrs merkel, mr sarkozy and mr cameron do not know this, but the union was founded with its own revenue. that was the basis of the financing of the union by the founding fathers. however, we all know that with time and a contribution from a certain iron lady, the union lost the link to its own resources, so instead we now have absurd discussions about who benefits more and who benefits less from the union. not seeking the eu interest but only focusing on the net payment position of every single member state is what the budget is today in the european union. that is called business for the moment in the budget issues of the union. this way of acting is killing the union – it is destroying the spirit of unity in the union and it is destroying the solidarity in the union. i repeat we can only require genuine own resources which can also lead to what a number of countries want, which is to have less national contributions. if we do not change the system, governments and not citizens will stay in charge. if, on the contrary, we go in the direction of own resources, not governments, but citizens will be in charge. in short, you could say that own resources for europe colleagues means more european democracy; it is the basis for a modern european democracy. so i have one request to you mr barroso. my request is very simple. whatever the format is – a convention, a conference, an igc with or without national parliaments – do not listen to the voices of the past. go for the future, use your right of initiative and put a formal proposal on the table as fast as possible. the pro-european majority in this house is fully behind you and behind that initiative.
it would not hurt, mr president, if the european parliament for once set a good example and thus defended the principle that the european union should put its finger on the pulse. at a time when savings are needed everywhere and citizens need to tighten their belts, it is a completely wrong signal to advocate a large increase in the eu budget. the eu is attracting new powers and wants more money for them. well, there are plenty of opportunities to save seriously. the european court of auditors estimates the financial impact of irregularities in the agricultural policy at between 2% and 5% of expenditure. the financial error margin for the regional funds is above 5%, and that is the case for the two main budgetary expenditure headings. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the matter. instead of always advocating an increase in incomes, we should also talk about saving. a direct eu tax, as the commission wants, is unacceptable for several reasons. it is another step towards a european superstate, it will inevitably lead to ever new expenditure and it will equally inevitably lead - and this is also admitted by commissioner lewandowski - to an increase in the overall tax burden in the net paying countries, and this is not negotiable at the moment.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, like my colleague mr niculescu, i too welcome the commission's intention to continue its efforts to simplify the cap, but i am also concerned about the follow-up to my colleague mr richard ashworth's report on administrative simplification. in fact, given the difficult circumstances facing our farmers today, i would like the cap after 2013 to allow farmers to focus on the main objective of producing safe, quality food, while encouraging them to provide non-market public goods. it is high time to lighten the administrative burden on our producers, to eliminate unnecessary legislation and to give farmers in the 27 member states the same chance to understand what their obligations are and what their rights are. it is a simpler and more responsive cap that they need. at a time when the world is facing competition from farmers, despite successive food and agricultural crises in both the north and the south, and when farmers are fighting for fair prices and fairer pay for their work, the least we can do to help them is to ask the commission to consult regularly with the agricultural sector in order to assess the impact of our regulations on the ground and to define simple, practical and transparent rules for our farmers and our taxpayers. i'll close with a quote from charles baudelaire, who said that absolute simplicity is the best way to stand out. i would ask the european commission to devote itself to this essential task and i naturally place my full confidence in the commissioner to achieve this objective.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have decided to table several amendments to mr paolo de castro's excellent proposal because beekeeping is an essential sector of activity. i am not going to argue with the honourable member, mrs lulling, who has been dealing with this subject since 1994. i think we can pay our respects tonight. we must realize that the disappearance of bees would be a turning point in human history. such a change in biodiversity would endanger the vital diversity of food. this profound disruption of ecosystems would destroy any prospects for future generations. the disappearance of pollinators is a matter of serious concern, as the decline is now being measured globally, in both wild and domestic bee populations. cocoa, vanilla, melon, passion fruit, all these tropical crops are totally dependent on pollinators for their fruit and seed production. on every continent, and increasingly, honey bees are dying in excess of their numbers as winter approaches. many beekeepers in europe have had to close their doors. today, more than 80% of the world's flowering plant species and 80% of the european cultivated species depend directly on insect pollination, mainly by bees. without the foragers, most crops would not be able to produce as well as they should. this is true of many wild species, but also of fruit trees, protein crops and vegetable crops. it is therefore difficult to imagine a meal that does not have bees as a close associate. the causes of their decline are well known: the elimination of their nesting sites, the scarcity of plants that provide them with nectar and pollen, but also diseases, parasites, and especially the spraying of pesticides, and more specifically neurotoxic pesticides, which are particularly destructive to bees. farmers and gardeners must be aware that bees are completely deprived of toxic products and that they are valuable crop helpers who must be protected as a matter of priority. i would like to conclude by saying that we must react because we cannot accept honey from elsewhere - of lower quality and not meeting our strict production criteria - as a fatality, as the only alternative to the slowly developing shortage of honey in europe. i therefore ask the commissioner and the commission to integrate beekeeping into the cap by specific measures.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, first of all i think what has happened is very serious. i also think that the political groups must react today with a common position on this subject and i hope that all the political groups, except of course the member concerned, are very clear about supporting you in the way you have done and that this will not happen again. (applause) i would like to thank i believe what mr daul said about ireland - because he did a whole analysis on ireland - is absolutely true, but i still want to say to joseph that if, at the beginning of the financial crisis, a european rescue plan for banks had been created in october 2008, as proposed by the commission but rejected by the member states, we would never have had the problems with ireland as we have today. this was refused in october 2008, saying "no, it's not necessary. we in germany have enough money to solve our problems ourselves". well, we've seen what that leads to. secondly, on the present problem, because tensions continue. i hope that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow the euro will be able to return to stability, but that is not yet the case. i therefore believe that what was said yesterday by the president of the european central bank and by mr rehn must be taken very seriously. in yesterday's debate - there were not many people present at the debate - it seems to me that what mr trichet said is very important. he said the package was not enough to restore stability to the eurozone. we therefore have a special responsibility in parliament because we are co-decision-makers in all these areas. we have to take this seriously. what is the problem? there is no currency anywhere in the world that is not backed by a single government, a single economic policy, a single strategy and a single bond market. we believe, in the euro area, that it is possible to act with sixteen governments, sixteen bond markets, sixteen different economic policies; i think that is what we have to act on and the conclusion we have to draw. we must go beyond the council's decisions. i think, mr rehn, that we must go further than the commission's proposals and mr trichet must be given the benefit of the doubt. if mr trichet, who is responsible for the stability of the euro, asks the parliament and the other european institutions to strengthen the package, the only decision we can take for the financial markets is to strengthen the package, to make it more community-oriented, to make sanctions really automatic - which is not the case at the moment - and to create a bond market in euros. the gaps between greece and germany, between ireland and germany, will not disappear if we do not have a single bond market. this could be a really effective additional sanction for countries which do not apply the stability pact. finally, i conclude with this, we need real economic governance that stimulates investment. and if the german government asks to change article 136 of the treaty for this, let us do it, but let us also do what is necessary and let us put in article 136 for the future real economic governance, really automatic sanctions and let us make this change in the treaty that is before us a real opportunity to give the euro what is needed in the future, that is to say an economic government in the euro area and in the european union. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
mr president, i think i have more confidence in the intention of the european commission to take measures against countries that do not apply the stability pact than in the council itself where the heads of governments are. i spent nine years in the council, and i have never seen a country pointing the finger at another country and saying ‘you are not applying the stability pact’. we saw it in 2004 and 2005 with france and germany. they did not apply the stability pact, and there was no sanction against either country. that is the reason why the european commission, which is the communitarian institution and really follows the method of monnet and schuman, has to take the lead in this.
president, ladies and gentlemen, the banking crisis, the economic crisis, the crisis in public finances; we have learned and experienced more than ever what crises are in the last two and a half years. so far, the authorities have responded well, not least the european commission. the existence and resilience of the euro and the accurate behaviour of the european central bank have saved us from worse. we have learned in europe that 'together we are strong', and solidarity works. but the present situation proves that we must continue the structural adjustments and that we must really move towards economic governance. if the euro has already put us to sleep, mr president of the european council, let us use the gravity of this crisis as a wake-up call to make full use of our european strength in the future. strict rules and adequate enforcement mechanisms: we need them for the financial sector, for government budgets, for debt, but also for correcting macroeconomic imbalances. they are necessary to restore confidence, increase competitiveness, promote economic growth, and increase opportunities for jobs and prosperity. i hope that no one will be deterred by strict measures for fear that the european union will be portrayed by the member states as a bohemian, because the truth is that the member states need external pressure, if necessary a bohemian, because they cannot cope with the work in times of globalisation on their own. president-in-office of the council, the conclusions we have read, which are very much the work of your task force, are putting the union on the road to the structural adjustments we need, and in that sense we welcome them. but two questions. first of all: more than half of the governance package has to be decided by codecision and you are asking for decision-making through fast track procedures. i wonder if you are leaving enough room for ecofin to negotiate with parliament and to let parliament play its full part, because that is what we want. second and lastly: the european council opposes an automatic sanctions system. no amendment to the treaty, no opening of pandora's box, but on the other hand you propose to amend the treaty yourself in order to create the permanent crisis mechanism - which we need. where is pandora, i wonder? thank you in advance for your answers.
mr president, in too many member states we have lived for the last 25 years on a model of economic growth based essentially on debt, private debt and public debt. the problem is that this debt first financed consumption and financial speculation rather than investment, at the very time when the rest of the world, china, brazil, india were starting to invest. we may read in the history books that this is the moment when europe really lost its footing. but there is no such thing as fate. of course we need robust european economic governance, but we must first tackle the fire caused by this debt, and to think that we will solve the problem by reducing public spending alone is to ignore reality. we will not get out of this crisis without restructuring and rescheduling the debt where it exceeds the sustainable level and the real ability of the debtors to repay. because we need to be clear. both debtors and creditors are responsible for the accumulation of debt. some have borrowed beyond their means, but others have lent irresponsibly, lured by the hope of substantial profits without risk, since the taxpayer would of course always be there to bail them out. so we will have to join the effort, and if we do not do this, we will be condemning ourselves to a japanese-style scenario, that is to say, a scenario of the decline of the european union. i think the citizens of this continent deserve much better than that.
if you listen to the debate today, mr president, you will notice something, in particular the big question - which is important to almost all the groups - of economic governance. the agreement is only apparent, because there is a very big difference in the way you interpret economic governance. if you look at the way the council does that - and you see that in the council conclusions - it is a one-sided focus on what the council thinks is necessary, namely saving, saving and saving again. it is almost an ideology that is elevated to an economic legality: if you save enough, everything will be fine. that is not the way we interpret economic governance. - no, it's the opposite. it will require something quite different, and it is not just our group that is saying that. look at economists, look at yesterday's financial economic times, not a socialist propaganda paper, which says 'if you only save, you undermine already fairly weakening economies and that makes it increasingly difficult to pay back the debt'. what you need is an investment. a very good and obvious example of what is needed is an increase in the level of participation. you can pay off your debts. in all our member states. but then you have to have the courage to invest in education, you have to have the courage to invest in the combination of family and work. if you look at the savings in the different member states, that is the kind of investment that is being cut right now. it is necessary to have a vision, a vision of economic policy, and on that basis you put the resources to do that. at that point, you will see how best to shape the stability pact. i think that is the big difference between how we and the council look at economic governance.
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to protest against your decision to deny godfrey bloom access to the chamber. he did use language that is not parliamentary. this time mr schulz himself has been the victim of such terms. the word fascist he uses himself and to ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. the strengthening of moldova's participation in community programmes will, on the one hand, strengthen ties in the fields of culture, education, the environment, technology and science and, on the other hand, also strengthen political relations through the eastern partnership and the negotiations of the new association agreement. the implementation of the protocol requires, however, political stability and democratic development on the part of moldova. the failure of the constitutional referendum on 5 september 2010 is regrettable. it is essential that moldova applies the european neighbourhood policy action plan and the reforms outlined in the 'rethink moldova' document. the holding of parliamentary elections on 28 november is an essential step for moldova's future stability and prosperity, as well as for the development of its relations with the european union. it is important that these elections take the country forward on this path and are fully in line with international standards for the holding of free and fair elections.
in writing. i voted against this report, which i have always strongly opposed. while i support the idea of better informing patients, i disapprove of the means by which this is achieved. the pharmaceutical industry will never be a philanthropic cause! and the line between information and advertising is very thin. it is true that the text which was approved almost unanimously has nothing in common with the commission's original idea, which would have opened the door to advertising disguised as 'information'. this proposal was in fact a clear expectation of the pharmaceutical industry to be able to get out of the legal ban on advertising for medicines. the report as it stands today contains many more guarantees: that the information supplied by pharmaceutical companies and intended for dissemination will be subject to prior checks and will not be disseminated in the media. however, the authorisation to make summaries of product information public means that there will be elements to highlight and others, such as side effects, that might well be regularly excluded from summaries because they are not very 'selling'. isn't that already a publicity stunt? was that really the goal? was the gamble really worth it?
in writing. advertising of prescription drugs is prohibited in the european union, and so on. pharmaceutical companies must follow clear rules of objectivity in the non-promotional information they disseminate. those are the two important messages delivered this afternoon with the passage of the patient information act. a unanimous vote of the plenary (558/48) which only confirms the unanimous vote, minus one vote of the health committee. there are safeguards in place, and there are many. the european commission proposed a ban on information on prescription drugs on television or radio, the european parliament decided to extend it to the print media. manufacturers are subject to a number of obligations: product characteristics described, enhanced labelling, prior authorization from health authorities. i do not understand all the "noise" made about the matter, especially in french-speaking belgium, by consumer associations and mutual societies, relayed by some european elected representatives who, even before the start of the discussions, had already condemned these two pieces of legislation. it is an easy political stance which i regret, because patients have a long wait for their illness, and without it, citizens would be left to the internet cowboys.
in writing. − in times of self-requested information, patients need to be informed in a clear, objective, reliable and good way about the way medicines work. although advertising for medicines is prohibited in the union, the commission did create an opening. the commission's proposal - which i did not approve - lacked a sound strategy and the distinction with advertising was too vague. the commission has also given too many rights and responsibilities to the pharmaceutical industry. now that parliament has made important changes, i can support the proposal. companies are restricted in the use of official documents (product summaries, evaluation reports) and in the channels through which the information is provided: health magazines, internet sites or letters to patients are no longer allowed. all the pharmaceutical labels must be pre-screened and approved by the competent authorities. this excludes self-regulation, which was still present in the original proposal. i still question the feasibility of this proposal because a binding information strategy from the government is still stronger than the government controlling the policies of the companies. however, i voted for the bill because it does provide better information for patients in the end.
in writing. the fjellner report on drug information raises legitimate concerns about the possibilities for pharmaceutical companies to advertise to patients. my colleagues in the committee on the environment and public health have certainly improved the text by refusing to endorse various forms of disguised advertising and by proposing that the health authorities of the member states should monitor the communications of pharmaceutical companies to the general public about their prescription medicines, but i remain very cautious about the extremely blurred line between information and advertising. i am strongly opposed, for example, to the idea of allowing companies to send patients, through medical staff, advertisements for their medicines. i don't want doctors to be pressured into becoming the salesmen of the pharmaceutical industry. so, despite the strict controls of my colleagues, i abstained on a text which was clearly problematic for me.
in writing. i voted against this report, which i have always strongly opposed. while i support the idea of better informing patients, i disapprove of the means by which this is achieved. the pharmaceutical industry will never be a philanthropic cause! and the line between information and advertising is very thin. it is true that the text which was approved almost unanimously has nothing in common with the commission's original idea, which would have open the door to advertising disguised as 'information'. this proposal was in fact a clear expectation of the pharmaceutical industry to be able to get out of the legal ban on advertising for medicines. the report as it stands today contains many more guarantees: that information supplied by pharmaceutical companies and intended for dissemination is controlled ex ante and that it is not disseminated in the media. however, the authorisation to make summaries of product information public means that there will be elements to highlight and others, such as side effects, that might well be regularly excluded from summaries because they are not very 'selling'. isn't that already a publicity stunt? was that really the goal? was the gamble really worth it?
in writing. in order to ensure that patients' rights and interests are respected, patients must be able to obtain high-quality, objective, reliable and non-advertising information on medicinal products. if we want to protect health, pharmaceutical labels must be as clear and complete as possible, meeting the essential quality criteria. in the same spirit of patient protection and information for the general public, it is necessary to promote the easiest possible access to information, in particular by providing a summary of the product characteristics and a package leaflet in both electronic and printed form. this is why it will be necessary to ensure that certified and registered websites are available which provide independent, objective and non-promotional information.
in writing. almost eight years ago, the european parliament adopted a directive on the reduction of hazardous substances (rohs directive), responding to a strong consumer demand for safe and non-harmful consumer products. this safety approach has been mainly achieved by banning the use of lead, mercury and cadmium in products as diverse as household appliances, radio and television sets, electric trains and video games. i welcome the revision adopted today which extends the scope of the directive to other products. but without initiating a lawsuit of intent with regard to substances as important as pvc. in the same way, it was important to revert to the restrictive position taken in june by the environment committee on nanomaterials. this revolution of the infinitely small deserves better than a simplistic pro- or anti-position, as in the case of gmos. the practicability of the rohs directive is also essential and i welcome the consideration of the potential health and environmental effects of these substances, the establishment of a methodology and the complementarity with the reach regulation.
in writing. - i have approved the report on hazardous substances in electrical and electronic waste. this report is a step in the right direction. the category of equipment is extended to include medical devices. in addition to heavy metals such as mercury and lead, a number of brominated flame retardants are also banned. the report also provides for an open scope so that in future all electronic devices (with a number of specific exceptions) and other dangerous substances may also be covered by this directive. clear criteria have been established for this. i regret, however, that a ban on pvc has not been included in this directive, as proposed by the green group. it is very important that hazardous substances in electronic waste decrease. despite european legislation prohibiting the export of hazardous waste for recycling, studies show that more than two thirds of european e-waste is exported. often this e-waste is dumped illegally in, for example, west africa, where it is very under-processed and causes enormous health problems and environmental pollution. this rapidly growing waste market is a money maker; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would jeopardise the environment.
in writing. - president, ladies and gentlemen, electrical and electronic equipment is an integral part of our daily lives. the european rohs system, which regulates the use of hazardous substances in these electronics, has in fact become a universal system used in no less than 28 countries outside the eu. so far, restrictions have been imposed on mercury, lead, cadmium and a number of flame retardants on the basis of the existing directive. rapid technological progress and improved scientific knowledge require us to re-arrange this legislation. the recasting of the directive is also necessary to make rohs an efficient and flexible instrument. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of these substances. it also sets out how reach and rohs relate to each other, avoiding duplication of legislation. for these reasons, i have today given my full support to the agreement which parliament has been able to conclude with the council. i hope that agreement can also be reached quickly on the directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee). the two legislative instruments are inextricably linked.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the evans report because the overall balance of the agreement reached with the council is positive. nevertheless, as a shadow rapporteur, i would like to express my displeasure at the fact that solar panels are being kept out of the scope of the directive, thanks to intensive lobbying from the industry. as a result, cadmium may remain in solar panels placed on the european market for (at least) another 10 years, whereas other electrical and electronic equipment is not allowed to do so. i strongly deplore the fact that a sector which should be a driver in our evolution towards a green economy has been eager to escape this important environmental legislation and that a majority in parliament and in the council has given in to it in favour of one technology in particular (the use of cadmium telluride thin film solar panels).
the word that has been used most often here today is strategy. you're right to be. we therefore welcome the commission's strategy. we are a little disappointed, however, commissioner, about the strategy, because a good strategy means making a good analysis, which is related to the supply problems, which is mainly related to the ecological problems and to the social problems. and from that strategy, we prioritize. and i'm very much attached to the word "priority", because that means you're making a ranking. at the top of the list is energy efficiency. you have referred to it, but why is it so difficult, if we are so concerned about energy efficiency, to formulate objectives which we want to enforce in our member states? that's the key. we know it works, and it's a way to get where we need to get. so i would ask the commissioner to include this priority anyway. and if you are preparing for the big summit in february, to actually put it forward.
madam president, mr president-in-office, in 2007, we africans and europeans were very ambitious. our joint strategy was based on an action plan with eight very concrete strategic partnerships. a second action plan will be adopted at the tripoli summit. i would like to emphasize four requirements for this strategic plan to be a real success. first of all, i would like to stress the need for greater involvement of national, european and pan-african parliaments in the implementation of this joint strategy. secondly, there must be better coordination between the common strategy and the cotonou agreements. thirdly, the tripoli summit on investment, economic growth and job creation must be tackled urgently if it is to be successful - i have heard this in several speeches, but it is essential - to improve the business climate. legal and judicial certainty for private investment is one of the keys to africa's economic and social development. there will be no other development strategy, mr hoarau, than opening up the market. everything else is charity, and unfortunately, so far, it's not working, at least not enough. finally, commissioner, i would ask you to consider whether it would not be useful to have a quick debate at commission level and to make proposals for our companies active in developing countries, particularly in the natural resources sector in those countries, to follow or align themselves with the dodd act voted by the us congress, because that would be a huge step forward in the fight against the plundering of natural resources and against corruption. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
that would certainly be a possibility. i should also like to say that the commission has for many years been financing the actions and capacities of the national parliaments of the developing countries precisely to equip them with the means to carry out this control. you also know that our colleague, glenys kinnock, in another parliament and at another time, advocated that country strategy papers and regional documents should necessarily be debated, i would say almost pre-emptively, proactively, in national parliaments. you also know that for example, for the so-called budget support, one of the conditions for budget support, which is an act of confidence in the institutions of a developing country, it is necessary that the state budget and, therefore, the use of development finance be debated in the national parliament. i think that, as far as the commission is concerned, a whole series of conditions and methods are already in place in this respect.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, this resolution was difficult to negotiate but i think it finally resulted in something that satisfied all the groups and i thank my colleagues for making this effort because we no longer dare to talk about the sahara because we know that it is a sensitive subject. we shall therefore not be taking a political position on the conflict between morocco and the sahara. the first point, however, concerns the condemnation of the violence that took place during the dismantling of the camp near laayoune. and this condemnation of violence is clear even if, today, we do not have the facts to say who did what. on the second point, we regret - and i would say this with a small voice - that there has been no freedom of the press and no possibility for humanitarian organizations or parliamentarians to visit the region. this does not seem acceptable to us. the third point is almost connected. we note that morocco is going to launch an investigation, but we strongly believe and ask that there should be an international investigation to shed light on this. apart from that, we are leaving the political conflict to the un and urging both sides to resume negotiations.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for clearly being in the appeasement camp tonight. yes, violence on both sides had to be condemned. the european parliament has been calling for a lasting solution to this conflict, which has now lasted for more than thirty years. and yes, of course, yes again, we had to remind ourselves of the indispensable freedom of the press which is the honour of any democratic country, it is essential. but for the rest, i still regret certain points of imbalance in the text. i would have liked, for example, to have also mentioned the fate of mustapha salma, the polisario front dissident who was kidnapped for daring to call for dialogue. we are talking about human rights, of course, but not for everyone, and that is unfortunate. there are not only guilty parties on one side and innocent parties on the other. there are responsibilities, unequal perhaps, on both sides in this conflict which has lasted for more than thirty years. there is above all - and this is essential - a shared responsibility in the search now for a solution that is just, realistic and sustainable, on the part of all the actors, and when i say all the actors, i am talking about morocco, i am talking about the polisario front and also about algeria, a key actor and it is a symbol, which is only cited, which is only mentioned in the very last word of our resolution. and i would just like to say in conclusion, madam president, that i fully support the proposals for the continuation of this constructive dialogue which have just been made by mr panzeri.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 25 november 2010, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149)
the agenda calls for debate on the oral question to the commission on the review of competition rules in cross-cutting cooperation, by sharon bowles, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-0131/20010 - b7-0565/2010).
i have received, in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure, a motion for a resolution (see minutes) from the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 25 november 2010, at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 11.30 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
rapporteur. − i would like just briefly to mention that i think that it is a very important signal that the parliament is sending out today: the fact that we want to foster our dual media system with sufficient breathing space for commercial broadcasters and public broadcasters. in addition, those who thought one year ago that this parliament cannot agree on a text about guarantees for media pluralism are wrong. i want to thank especially my colleague petra kammerevert and, above all, doris pack, because she is the mother of this initiative.
in writing. while resolution 1325 of 31 october 2000 is a testimony to the awareness of states of the impact of armed conflict on women, of the violence against them in wartime and of the important role they could play in preventing and resolving conflicts, the tenth anniversary of the resolution that we are celebrating today is also an opportunity to take stock. resolutions 1820 (2008) and 1888 (2009) explicitly recognize for the first time the use of sexual violence as a tactic of war, requiring specific political and security responses. the appointment of margot wallström as special representative on 'sexual violence against women and girls in armed conflict' is also worth mentioning. this serious problem deserves our full attention. that is why i have personally insisted, as co-chair of the acp, that it should be at the heart of our discussions at the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly's plenary session in kinshasa on 2 december.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this text to commemorate the 10th anniversary of un resolution 1325 on women, peace and security, and moreover on the symbolic date of 25 november, the international day for the elimination of violence against women. i would like to stress the need to develop the participation of women in every field of action, including reconciliation work, negotiation, construction, peace enforcement or peacekeeping, and conflict prevention. it is essential that all parties involved take account of the specific needs of women, and only through an increased presence of women on the ground will we be able to improve the situation. moreover, the visibility of women on the ground would help to raise awareness of the inhumanity of the use of rape as a weapon of war and perhaps end the impunity enjoyed by perpetrators of such violence. finally, this presence will help to build mutual trust between the civilian victims of conflict, the majority of whom are women and children, and the actors on the ground.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the proposal by my excellent colleague and president paolo de castro. indeed, the consequences of the global decline in bee numbers are relatively unknown to the general public, even though bees play a fundamental role in the sustainability of our food chain. we need an ambitious research policy to enable us to understand more precisely the mechanisms that contribute to the spread of these species and to provide us with the means to preserve them. we cannot accept chinese honey, which is of lower quality and does not meet our strict production criteria, as a fatality, as the only alternative to the slowly developing shortage of honey in europe. i regret that my colleagues in the european parliament did not vote for all the amendments i had tabled. i regret that the shameful and unrestrained use of neurotoxins has been hypocritically condoned in agreement with the big chemical industrial groups. einstein said, "if the bee disappeared from the face of the earth, man would have only four years left to live". let's make sure we never have to check that claim.
in writing. the treaty of lisbon provides the european union with a strong legal framework and legal basis article 194 for action on energy policy. a long-term vision and a new energy strategy are needed to achieve the 20-20-20 targets of the climate-energy package by 2020. the european union must be strong-willed and ambitious. today, the union is increasingly dependent on energy imports. it is therefore important that the european union incorporates energy considerations into its external policies and actions. it is also necessary to encourage long-term investment in the community. energy efficiency and energy savings should be given top priority, including through the adoption of an energy efficiency action plan and a european-wide renewable energy incentive programme. the union must also make the most of its research and development efforts. finally, particular attention should be paid to the competitiveness of the european union and the affordability of energy for european industry and private consumers.
in writing. let's say it right away, the cancun climate change conference will not be a success. a pessimism justified by the real lack of will shown in recent months by the main protagonists, the united states and china in the lead, without which a numerical and binding agreement is not conceivable. it is not certain, however, that cancún is the exact copy of copenhagen and is causing so much disappointment among the citizens. in the resolution adopted this afternoon, the european parliament recalled that the objective of a temperature rise limited to 1.5 °c had to be pursued in order to safeguard the survival of all nations, peoples and ecosystems. it is a question of responsibility towards future generations. the resolution recalls that to be credible, the european union must not only honour its commitments to help the poorest countries to the tune of 30 billion for the period 2010-12, but also show imagination to save the planet. and to provide for new sources of financing: a tax on financial transactions, taxes on international trade, national taxes on emissions, contributions to air tickets - all the avenues i supported with 292 meps.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in western sahara. this joint resolution sends a strong signal from the european parliament condemning the recent upsurge of violence in western sahara. on 8 november, the sahrawi protest camps were violently evacuated. several people were killed on both sides and many civilians were injured. the camps were a peaceful protest by the sahrawi against repression, marginalization, the plundering of their natural resources (including fish) and the poor living conditions under moroccan occupation. the resolution calls for an immediate end to the violence and for an independent inquiry into the events in gdaim izik and laayoune. the moroccan authorities are called upon to allow free access to western sahara for journalists, humanitarian organisations, members of the european parliament and independent observers. the increased repression by the moroccan authorities against human rights defenders and sahrawi activists (arbitrary arrests, prosecutions and imprisonment) is very worrying. these events put pressure on the informal talks between morocco and the polisario front, which were resumed under un auspices in early november. however, a just and lasting political solution is necessary to improve the situation of the sahari people.
author. - madam president, since the iraq war, this country, instead of being liberated from a military dictatorship, has been plunged into violence. the spectacle of saddam hussein's hanging was in no way a means of mitigating this violence. on the contrary, it has exacerbated tensions in that country. you know that the european union's fight against the death penalty is a constant battle. we believe that by abolishing the death penalty in europe we have contributed to a step forward in the progress of mankind. that is why the idea of a possible execution by hanging of tarek aziz, who worked with saddam hussein, and two of his deputies, seems to us to be an indignity. not because of the personality of tarek aziz, who was, however, and i knew him very well, a remarkable personality, unfortunately embedded in a totalitarian system. but i think - and i say this in a personal capacity - that he has made, especially at the last moment, major efforts to try to open up his country. but it's not the case of tarek aziz that's important. we cannot have the hanging of tarek aziz as a symbol of the liberation of iraq on our television sets tomorrow. that is why i ask my colleagues to vote for this resolution, which also includes a part on the persecution of christians in iraq, which i support.
the greens/efa group fully supports the two points in the resolution. firstly, the fight against the death penalty must be continued and the call for tariq aziz and two other former officers not to be executed must be continued. secondly, every person in iraq must have the opportunity to practice his faith in the country, and we condemn any attack on this. we are delighted to hear that, but my group is less concerned about what is not in the resolution. the european parliament seems to refuse to speak about the many human rights violations in iraq for which we as european member states are partly responsible. the foreign forces have allowed iraqi security forces to inhumanely treat prisoners, even torture and murder them. the united kingdom was condemned by the european court of human rights in march this year. the recent revelations by wikileaks confirm these practices, and they are unacceptable. we therefore would like to see a strong condemnation of the abovementioned practices, committed by both american and european troops. a reference to the call by the un high commissioner for human rights, navi pillay, to investigate thoroughly the allegations of illegal abductions on the one hand and of ill-treatment and murder in iraqi prisons on the other would also be appropriate in this resolution. the investigation recently launched by the united kingdom should be followed up and member states deploying troops should hold their people accountable for their wrongdoing. the commission and the council should also insist on this. silence is no longer an option.
author. - madam president, there is sometimes good news, even in the case of emergencies. so i would like everyone to remember the emotion that gripped our throats when we saw the release of aung san suu kyi on television. we have a special connection with this remarkable woman who won one of our first sakharov prizes in 1990 and who, in her 20 or 21 years of life, spent almost 15 years in prison. she is a symbol of a political woman who can stay in a country that is as tough as burma, that is, free and always resistant. this is absolutely extraordinary. but this event should not make us forget that its release is fragile. she's already been released and then reassigned to house arrest. secondly, let us not forget that the recent elections in burma were a sham, a sham democracy. before the elections, laws were passed to stifle freedom of speech. people, like monks, were prevented from voting. there are still 22,000 prisoners of conscience in burma today and it remains one of the most terrible dictatorships in the world. we therefore call on the burmese authorities to respect the rights of association and freedom of expression and to release political prisoners, and we trust this remarkable woman, whom we are waiting for in the european parliament or to whom we will go if she cannot receive her sakharov prize, to maintain a spirit of freedom in this torn country.
madam president, on 7 november last, the first elections in 20 years were held in burma. where we could have welcomed such a process finally in place, we are now once again forced to condemn this country, which has nothing to do with human rights and freedom of expression, among other things. elections must be about choices expressed through voting. how can we talk about elections when the opposition parties have no voice, when they cannot express themselves freely or properly represent the entire population? we are talking here again about burma, a country which is not free but which has been in the hands of the military junta for many, many years. as everyone knows, this is a frozen power and it will remain so until genuine free and fair elections are held. the release of aung san suu kyi is a step in the right direction. you have to recognize it and salute it. may it be followed by other gestures, as has been mentioned here earlier, particularly in respect of many other political prisoners.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
it is exactly six months ago today that the federal parliamentary elections took place in belgium. it is worth pointing out that this is the first time that an eu presidency has been entirely occupied for six months by a resigning government. the council is not politically represented here today. that's a bit of a shame, because that surreal state is worth mentioning. the belgian structure is still as unmanageable today as it was six months ago, and there is no other way to do it, because flanders and wallonia have become two different countries with totally different political and socioeconomic cultures. the belgian impasse, mr president, is total, so that the european union can only prepare itself for the emergence of two new member states, flanders and wallonia.
mr president, it goes without saying that every element in the fight against illegal immigration can count on my support. if the immigration liaison officers can make the operation of frontex, for example, more efficient, that is a positive thing. i would stress that we must not be blind to institutional and bureaucratic processes and that we must not lose sight of the larger picture. the problem of illegal immigration is a political problem which requires political will to find solutions. we are now seeing that there are still member states, such as belgium, which reward illegal immigration for political and ideological reasons, by rewarding illegal immigrants en masse with regularisation or residence permits. in this way, illegal immigration is not combated but actively encouraged. we can have as many liaison officers and frontex staff as we want, and the problem will only get worse. what i find irritating in the report before us is that it recommends that we no longer speak of 'illegal immigration' but of so-called 'irregular immigration'. i do not understand this very well, but it seems that people want to solve the problem by giving it a different name or by pretending that the problem no longer exists. this is orwellian, let's just call a cat a cat and be clear and talk about illegal immigration and illegal immigrants.
in writing. the south caucasus is of strategic importance to the european union. the process of deepening relations between the european union and the south caucasus countries, including georgia, will contribute to improving the administration of justice and the level of respect for freedoms. this agreement is an important milestone in eu-georgia relations and an encouraging step forward, given georgia's european aspirations. the agreement is also of regional interest and will contribute to the union's efforts to strengthen cooperation with other countries in the region. for georgia, this is also a step forward and an encouragement to deepen cooperation with its neighbours and with the european union. in addition, this type of agreement will encourage georgia to implement the necessary reforms in the areas of freedom, security and justice, such as the fight against illegal immigration, the development of democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
in writing. the number of major disasters in both eu and non-eu countries is increasing due to climate change and increasing urbanisation. disasters hit the least developed countries more severely, resulting in particularly high loss of life. the economic cost of such disasters is also much higher in these countries. the creation of a rapid reaction force will help to coordinate eu and member state activities better and give greater visibility to eu work. that is why i supported this recommendation. like the author of this recommendation, i would like to call for the many excellent practical proposals made in the barnier report to be taken into account.
in writing. − with climate change increasing the number of disasters worldwide, causing serious humanitarian, economic and environmental damage, it is essential that the european union can respond quickly. the creation of a european civil protection force provides a clear structure for this rapid response. lessons have been learned from the earthquake in haiti to increase the union's effectiveness, coordination and visibility. i am therefore in favour of bringing civil protection and humanitarian aid together in the portfolio of a single commissioner. i also believe that humanitarian aid operations should always be carried out under the coordinating umbrella of the un wherever possible. the report calls on the commission to work with national governments, local authorities and civil society organisations in the affected areas to set up programmes to enable local communities to take on the responsibility for disaster prevention and management. the deployment of military and civil defence means in the event of disasters should be used only as a last resort.
in writing. cbrn risks give a new dimension to terrorist attacks, accidents, natural disasters and/or pandemics because they know no borders and can cause a large number of casualties. the response to this hazard must be considered at the stage of handling, storage, access restriction or control of the materials. interventions following an incident involve extensive cooperation between the different authorities in a member state and between the national authorities of different member states and the european bodies. it is a priority to strengthen the non-proliferation and disarmament regime by ensuring the universal and unreserved application of all relevant international treaties and agreements. it is also important to address the risk of proliferation through terrorist action. in addition, a european crisis response mechanism should be established as a matter of urgency to coordinate civil and military resources to enable the european union to have a rapid reaction capability in the event of a cbrn disaster. finally, european standards for quality and safety must be developed.
in writing. i am in favour of this regulation which aims to adapt the regulation of 19 february 2004 establishing an immigration liaison officer network. these adaptations are necessary as a result of the evolution of european law and practice in this field. the new regulation provides in particular for: • a legal basis between the frontex agency and the liaison officers; • better use of icon; and • greater rationalisation of reporting systems on network activities. with this new regulation we hope that this network of immigration liaison officers will be more effective.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on the european protection decision. i am not in favour of limiting the scope to strictly criminal proceedings, as some of the more resistant member states may be (the united kingdom, the netherlands since the last change of government, etc.), but i am in favour of covering a wider range of proceedings. i hope that the strong signal sent by the european parliament in plenary will not only unblock the current blocking minority in the council but also ensure that the next hungarian presidency takes up the matter.
in writing. any victim of crime who enjoys protection in a member state of the european union must be able to enjoy the same protection when travelling to another member state. although most of the measures concern women victims of gender-based violence, it should be noted that any other victim of violence, including children, can benefit from this initiative. it is also welcome that a protection order can also be sought to protect the family of a protected person. however, protection should not be limited to the physical protection of the victim. the dignity of the person as a human being must also be taken into account. i am well aware of the complexity of the initiative and the challenges it may face, in particular because of the different legal systems and criminal, civil or administrative procedures that may vary from one member state to another. nevertheless, the member states can only be encouraged to move in this direction.
in writing. i welcome the overwhelming adoption of the report on the european protection decision. the measure adopted today will ensure that a person who enjoys protection in one member state will also be protected in any other member state to which he or she travels. the directive covers not only victims of domestic violence but also forced marriages, trafficking in human beings and female genital mutilation. this is a major step forward for the rights of victims and their mobility in the european union. i now call on the council to follow the european parliament's position by massively supporting the european protection decision.
in writing. we have just adopted by an overwhelming majority the report on the proposal for a directive on the prevention and combating of trafficking in human beings and the protection of victims. this is a historic vote for several reasons. firstly, it is the first time in the history of the european union that binding european legislation has been adopted to combat trafficking in human beings. in addition, the european parliament and the council reached agreement at first reading, which means that the provisions of this directive will be implemented as soon as possible. finally, the directive increases the penalties for traffickers (minimum 5 years) and strengthens the protection and assistance provided to victims. the new rules will apply to trafficking in the sex industry and to labour exploitation, for example in construction, agriculture or domestic services. i therefore welcome this historic vote.
on behalf of the alde group. – i have a specific question but i want to say, mr barroso, that you have the right of initiative with the commission. you can come forward with a proposal on eurobonds, and that was what mr schulz was asking. ok, so you do not use that right, and that is a problem for the moment on this issue. i have a specific question on the 2009 discharge. there is a declaration of assurance by a director-general of regional policy, who says, and i quote him, that for 38 out of 79 programmes, the directorate-general does not have reasonable assurance on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in relation to reimbursements in 2009 of expenditures declared. this prompts the question as to who is in a position to provide this reasonable assurance. the declaration continues that, for the 41 remaining programmes, significant deficiencies have been identified at an early stage, before any reimbursement in 2009. so my question to you is, assuming that you take political responsibility for this declaration with all its ramifications, what will be your line of action towards the member states?
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president-in-office, mr commissioner, just a month ago, when we had, in outline, an agreement on the figures for the 2011 budget, the four main political groups were calling very loudly for the belgian presidency to negotiate with the council not just the figures for 2011, on which there was agreement, but a real political agreement for the future, a political agreement which would allow us to work together, in the form of a convention or something else, whatever, but also with the national parliaments and governments, on the future financial framework and on own resources. everyone was in agreement. we asked that question just a month ago because we thought it was necessary to guarantee the future of european finances, because we thought it was necessary to come to the rescue of the budgets of the member states, which are all in difficulty, and because the european union must have its own resources. everyone agreed and it was said in a way that i would say was very manly. a month later, where are we? everyone's back in their seats. the 2011 budget is about to be adopted. it ignores flexibility and iter. i have no regrets about iter, as you know, but on the other hand, today the belgian presidency, although it has made enormous efforts, i agree, it is proposing, a little to make us swallow the pill, that we should be content with a statement from the council, with the wisdom of the commission, but i hope that it will always be on the side of parliament, that is its place, and with the letter from mr leterme, the prime minister, who is finally proposing that we respect the treaties. it is fortunate that he does not propose the opposite, which would be surprising. so admit that this is a rather light proposition, and admit that we are a little frustrated. i am not even sure that the belgian presidency itself believes exactly what it says, whereas, mr wathelet, if we had extended the health walk a little, we might have been able to reach a better agreement, a stronger agreement for the future, which would have given us a better chance of guaranteeing the coming years. you have a taste for too little, i do too. in any case, we shall be correct, we shall vote properly and with these shortcomings, and these shortcomings the resolution, and for the rest we have lost a round, but believe me we shall be at the next meeting, because the debate is not over on the prospects.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i shall try to be briefer than the previous speaker. my group proposes to adopt the budget as agreed by the council. it offers a small increase and that is a reasonable compromise. keep in mind that eu member states and citizens have to cut their budgets. unfortunately, the debate on the budget had a false start. the parliament demanded an increase of 6%, which was ludicrous and showed that this congregation was out of touch. here, the debate was even inflamed by hotheads who wanted to kidnap the budget to force access to own resources, in other words eu taxation. we have always opposed that. lisbon is clear on it. the parliament has a right to advise, not a right to co-decide. the parliament lost this battle, as we predicted. now it is moving to the position which the european conservatives defended all along – a budget of 1% of gdp. the hotheads here must cool down, particularly the greens. just imagine that the eu had no budget next year while the euro was in a tailspin. is that the image you want to offer the financial markets? they would not be at all happy. i would like to congratulate the governments of the united kingdom and the netherlands for their principled position. i thank the belgian government for their role as honest broker and i thank the commission for its knowledgeable and cool-headed work.
in writing. the conclusion of the cancún climate summit is hardly a super-achievement. but it's also more than nothing. there have been some concrete steps forward, on the fight against deforestation for example, and there is a green light for the start of a $100 billion climate fund. but it's all so terribly tiring and slow. a real procession from echternach. meanwhile, the warm-up clock is ticking. and europe in this story? the eu has certainly learned from the mistakes of last year's copenhagen summit. in cancún, europe was at the heart of the negotiations and was acting as one. the eu model is looked to from all over the world because we have the most progressive and binding agreements. europe is a role model when it comes to climate. we must maintain that frontline position stubbornly for years to come. it is a profound and positive difference from almost all other continents, a huge asset in terms of image, and it also has great economic and social benefits.
mr president, commissioner, i thank you for your reply and above all for your commitment. i knew that was one of your favorite subjects. i would particularly stress the need to promote the reconciliation of work and private life for both men and women, and only then will we achieve full equality. more than half of the member states have not reached the target of creating childcare facilities for at least 90% of children between 3 and school age and for 33% of children under 3 years of age. so i wanted to ask you whether you intend to take retaliatory measures, or even to penalize member states which do not achieve this objective.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i believe that in life there is a rule that applies everywhere: when a group is attacked, we must react with unity and solidarity. it is exactly the opposite that happened in 2010 when the euro was attacked, since since the greek crisis, we have witnessed only disagreements in the discussions, but certainly no unity, and certainly not enough solidarity. in fact, we must have the courage now - and i say this also to the president of the commission - to recognise that all the temporary measures that have been taken are not enough. this is not my analysis, it is the analysis of the international monetary fund, the oecd, mr trichet - who is still the head of the euro, the president of the bank - for whom all the measures that are being taken and all the measures that are in the pipeline do not go far enough. everyone says that we need to act in four areas: firstly, a stability pact with real sanctions mechanisms; secondly, an extended and permanent crisis fund - i am not saying this, mr trichet says that we must expand, the heads of state do not want to expand, and we want confidence to return to the markets; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are the four things that must be done, because nowhere in the world, ladies and gentlemen, is there a currency that is not backed by a government, by an economic strategy and by a bond market. it doesn't exist anywhere in the world. and what are we being told here today, in this chamber? we are told, "yes, that's a good idea, but we have to wait a little longer". wait for what? we may have to wait for complete chaos or for the euro to disappear! the time has come to take this decision and i expect the commission, mr president, not to say to us today: 'yes, it will be difficult, we must not continue these discussions on eurobonds; it is a good idea but it is not yet the time since we have the crisis fund, which we are going to make permanent now.' one has nothing to do with the other. the crisis fund is needed now to counter attacks on the euro, but the euro bonds are also needed for the future stability of the euro in the medium and long term. there is no contradiction between the two, both are needed, as is once again the case throughout the world. i therefore believe that, apart from the heads of government who will be discussing tomorrow and the day after tomorrow and who will say 'yes, we are going to change the treaty a little and perhaps make the crisis fund which normally needs to be increased permanent, as everyone else is asking for', i believe that the time has come for the commission to table as soon as possible a much larger, courageous, comprehensive and coherent package on this approach, and containing these four elements. as far as the stability pact with real sanctioning mechanisms is concerned, parliament can do its job, since the package is here and we are going to return to the commission's initial proposals. and as for the other three elements, an expanded crisis fund, but propose it. bring it up! take a stand on this and say that the crisis fund must be expanded. why would you do that? because with that we will stop speculating against the euro. secondly, propose a comprehensive package on fiscal and economic union and thirdly, have no fear, propose a single market for euro bonds because we know that in the end this is what will stabilise the euro in the long term.
mr president, i am very sensitive to martin schulz's call for us to try to restore the confidence of our citizens, and that means telling the truth and avoiding simplistic statements. the first is that eurobonds relieve governments of their responsibilities. this is obviously wrong, because no one has ever asked member states to pool 100% of their debts. in any case, under any eurobond scheme, the states will have to continue to use the direct markets for part of their debts and there they will feel the quality of their signature, which will be reflected in the interest rates they will have to pay. so this is a simplistic view that we must get out of. the second simplistic approach is the simplistic approach of saying: 'we are going to the aid of these greeks, these irish people who are a little incapable'. i would like to remind you that what we do is lend money, and lend money at rates that are particularly favorable to lenders. we're making a good business out of it. and so, one of two things: either we consider that greece and ireland, with our loans, no longer present any risk and we must lend to them at a rate which corresponds to zero risk or at any rate extremely limited or there is a risk that they will default and then, we must puncture the abscess, we must restructure these debts and put an end to the uncertainty. i would also like to end by speaking to our german friends, especially the cdu. mr langen, you spoke of reunification and you are right. when germany was reunified, the entire deutsche mark area, of which belgium was a part and to which france was ultimately largely attached, paid for it in the form of higher interest rates. and it was just! it was both historically right, because the reunification of germany was the reunification of our europe, and economically right, because in the end, everyone would benefit from the additional economic growth that would result. so i say to the cdu today: "take this into account", and we are asking the same of germany today. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the flemish politician bart de wever gave an interview to the 'spiegel' in which he said that belgium had become a transfer community. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. solidarity has become a one-way street. the eu is about to do the same. we're turning a community of service into a community of transfer. the euro is the means to do this. he's creating a path to cheap money in different states. it has become, as eu president van rompuy said, a sleeping pill: competitiveness in various countries has been undermined. now many european politicians are calling for a sleeping pill: eurobonds. you're widening the gap. if we continue in this way, the eu will be in the same position as belgium is now in a few years: a transfer community whose political foundation is crumbling. i shall be reading over christmas the book 'save our money' by mr henkel, former president of the federation of german industries, and perhaps you can do the same, because that way we will know what people in germany are thinking.
madam president, i want to say to mr hökmark, the point that you are making about socialist governments may be true to some extent, but right-wing governments basically choose to do the same thing by piling up private debt instead of public debt. this is no better for the economy and is really a different way of doing exactly the same thing which is unsustainable.
i voted against it for many reasons, but the most remarkable paragraph is the one which, according to this parliament, obliges member states to spend 0.7% of their gross national income on development aid and the commission should ensure that this obligation is respected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. paragraph 52 is therefore again curious, in which the commission is urged to take advantage of the momentum, so to speak, in the enlargement process. may i ask what momentum? is it the continuing provocations by turkey or the massive violations of human rights in that country, not to mention the ever-increasing islamization?
there are certainly some good things in this resolution, such as the condemnation of the participation of the criminal mugabe in the lisbon summit and the pointing out of the dire consequences of the brain drain from the african continent. it is also rightly emphasized that the development of agricultural capacity is crucial. on the other hand, we really must get rid of this absurd 0.7% standard. the trillion dollars in development aid that has flowed to africa over the last 60 years has only led to more misery on this continent. instead of always giving more aid, we must concentrate our energies on combating illegal capital flight, which is rightly emphasized in this resolution. i am also not at all pleased with the migration clause, which is why i voted against it in the end.
it goes without saying that i voted against this politically correct report. as a flemish nationalist, i find it totally unacceptable that this parliament automatically equates nationalism with xenophobia and discrimination. the proposal to supplement infringement proceedings against member states with a procedure whereby certain policy measures are blocked until the commission decides whether or not to initiate a formal infringement procedure is downright dangerous. this is simply putting member states under guardianship and this is an unacceptable situation. the european commission may in future block an effective policy on deportation, and it is going too far in this respect. these are tasks which should be carried out and exercised by the national member states and not by the european commission.
in writing. budget 2011 vote between responsibility, bitterness and conviction. the s&d group and parliament took their part in voting in favour of this budget to avoid institutional deadlock and recourse to the provisional twelfths. the bitter truth is that codecision in budgetary matters is a match made in heaven and earth. despite the concessions made by parliament, some member states, who, unlike me, do not believe in the added value of the european budget, have remained inflexible. conviction: the future of the union depends on new own resources and a financial transaction tax. it is with the commission and its commitment to this matter that we shall achieve this fundamental objective. a ftt is necessary, but also a 2011 budget, so i abstained on the symbolic but irresponsible amendment tabled by the greens on this subject. the ftt is too important a subject to be played with in political strategies of introducing amendments which we are not the original authors of and providing for a zero budget line. this amendment, originally a socialist amendment, was intended to take this debate forward during the budgetary procedure, but to adopt it today would be to choose a union without a budget.
in writing. the european citizens' initiative will be a powerful tool for defining the issues to be put on the agenda of the european union. it was set up by the treaty of lisbon and will allow one million european citizens to ask the european commission to submit proposals in areas within its competence. this initiative thus gives the citizens of the union the right to be heard and at the same time grants them the same powers of political initiative as those already enjoyed by the council of ministers and the european parliament. the citizens' initiative will also have to encourage a wider cross-border debate, as it will have to be drawn up by people residing in several different member states. however, an initiative can only be implemented if certain requirements are met, whether they are administrative or respect for the fundamental values of the european union, to avoid this instrument being used for undemocratic purposes. these requirements guarantee its reliability and thus its effectiveness. it is also essential to ensure that the process is in line with union data protection requirements and fully transparent from start to finish.
in writing. participatory democracy makes its welcome entrance into europe with the adoption of this report on the citizens' initiative, one of the major developments of the lisbon treaty. one million european citizens will now be able to call on the commission to take a decision on a social issue, provided that it falls within european competence. this means that 1 million citizens - only 0.2% of the population of the european union! - are nationals of at least one quarter of the member states and are of voting age. signatures may be collected in writing, as well as on the internet, and must be verified. the authors will have to be identified: who they are, what they stand for, who they work for. this is potentially a giant step for the democratic legitimacy of europe. a step forward to bring the citizens of a europe they sometimes rightly or wrongly consider to be light years away from their daily concerns. but the risk of it being exploited by a few ngos or by one or another industrial sector is not insignificant. to be successful, the initiative will have to be genuinely citizen-driven. it will have to advance the debate, reconcile europe and its citizens, and contribute to the emergence of a european civil society.
in writing. - i voted in favour of establishing the rules of the european citizens' initiative. the ep has made sufficient progress in its negotiations with the council of ministers. the citizens' initiative gives citizens of the european union the opportunity to put a proposal on the european political agenda. once one million signatures have been collected, the european commission is obliged to examine the proposal and to explain why it is or is not an official legislative proposal. the european commission had set a threshold of at least nine different eu countries for signatories, but parliament succeeded in lowering it to seven. organisers who manage to collect enough signatures may also come to the european commission and the european parliament to explain their proposal in person. it is a pity that the european parliament has not been able to prevent 18 countries from requiring citizens to give their identity card number when signing a citizens' initiative. it scares people off. some will fear identity fraud. there are countries where the number of an identity card will not be asked. this creates legal inequality in the eu. it will now be up to the european commission to decide how seriously it will be taken by the european citizens.
in writing. the africa-eu strategic partnership is the only instrument of intercontinental relations of the european union. it marks a shift in relations between the eu and africa, which are becoming true partners, dealing as equals and whose political dialogue covers a wide variety of issues of common interest. it is no longer a relationship between givers and receivers. it is of strategic importance and needs to be revitalised and strengthened to meet the challenges ahead in africa and europe. i am thinking of the achievement of the mdgs, the food crisis, the economic and financial crisis, climate change and so on. the theme of the tripoli summit, 'investment, economic growth and job creation', recalls that peace and security, economic and political governance and respect for human rights are prerequisites for development. legal and judicial certainty for private investment is one of the keys to africa's economic and social development. there is no social, human and economic development without prosperity.
in writing. - the illegal extraction of minerals is already restricted by a us 'conflict minerals' law. the joint resolution on the future eu-africa strategy calls on the eu to do the same. minerals imported into the eu must be traceable. today, illegal exploitation is all too often at the root of civil wars and conflicts in the region, whereas this wealth can be the engine of sustainable economic development. actions in the areas of capacity building, good governance, infrastructure development and investment are crucial. a participatory policy, socially and environmentally responsible and beneficial to the population, is essential. agriculture is also a motor for development. the agricultural and fisheries sectors must therefore be strengthened in a sustainable way, especially for small farmers and fishermen. the debate on agricultural land and land ownership must be conducted in depth. the cancún agreement is vital to tackling poverty in africa, given the enormous potential of natural resources - sun, wind, rivers and tides - that african countries often have in abundance. the text of the resolution does not avoid the hot-button issues and was therefore approved.
in writing. the protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms are at the heart of democracy and the rule of law in the european union. the accession of the european union to the european convention on human rights will bring an additional mechanism to enforce human rights, namely the possibility of bringing an action before the european court of human rights. the european union institutions and the member states should also increase their efforts in the field of awareness raising so that citizens are aware of these fundamental rights and are thus better protected. it is also necessary to ensure better cooperation with international organisations concerned with the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. it is important to develop a european union strategy on children's rights, through practical measures to combat abuse, sexual exploitation and child pornography, to promote safe use of the internet and to eliminate child labour and child poverty. the fight against trafficking in human beings - especially women and children - which is an intolerable form of slavery must remain a priority.
in writing. advertising is everywhere, on the streets, in newspapers, on television, on radio and on the internet... and whether we like it or not, it has a huge influence on consumer behavior. it's a means of communication. while the informative role of advertising is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market, the consumer has a right to be informed and protected. this is why the report on unfair commercial practices in advertising and on the problems associated with the development of new advertising practices and technologies is of great importance. advertising control is essential to keep it healthy and truthful. it is essential to strengthen european cooperation in this field, and it is also appropriate to encourage co-regulation. and online advertising is often aggressive and intrusive. it must be given serious thought.
in writing. until the crazy challenge of space solar becomes a reality and the whole world benefits from this almost inexhaustible electricity supply, the european union has no choice for its current energy policy but to multiply sources of supply and above all to play the energy efficiency card. this is a key priority of the european strategy for the next decade, as reiterated in the bendtsen report approved by a majority of meps this afternoon. i particularly welcome the adoption of the binding 20% energy savings target for 2020, which would save the eu some €100 billion. to achieve this, action will obviously have to be increased in areas as varied as energy services, transport (when will there be a framework for the standardisation of electric vehicles?) and buildings. the latter sector requires special attention when it is known that buildings are responsible for about 40% of the eu's energy consumption and about 36% of greenhouse gas emissions. there is considerable potential for energy savings in public buildings, for example, which would facilitate the transition to a sustainable and green economy.
in writing. − i am pleased that the european parliament has voted in favour of a mandatory target of 20% energy savings by 2020. projections indicate that europe will achieve only 11% energy savings with current policies. meanwhile, households waste a thousand euros a year on energy and we export as much as 350 billion euros of our european wealth to oil-rich countries every year. better insulated homes, more efficient energy transport and cleaner appliances mean lower energy bills for consumers and businesses. there are often barriers to taking these efficient measures, for example, due to the high investment costs of measures or uncertainty about the benefits. if the european ministers support the proposal, public authorities should do more to support energy-saving measures. measures that ultimately make money because the energy bill is lower. saving energy is the cheapest way to meet our climate goal and leads to 560 million tons less co2 emissions. so saving energy makes it even easier to increase our climate target. unfortunately, we are still hopelessly behind, and according to a recent report, european policy needs to be tripled to achieve 20% energy savings. that is why it is so important that this objective is binding on all eu member states.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i will be brief: if you look at the policies that are being implemented today, it is roughly 80% cut in expenditure and 20% new revenue, and i think i am still being generous in saying this. everyone knows very well that when you cut public spending by 80%, those who drink the first toast are the most vulnerable in our societies. i would therefore like to express my indignation at two contrasts: the first is the contrast i see between economic governance on the one hand and the eu 2020 strategy on the other. economic governance is hard, it is immediate, it is strict rules that are binding. the eu 2020 is, of course, a good idea - reducing poverty in particular - but it is soft, it is voluntary, we will do it if we want to, if we have time. there is no compulsion in all this. this is a contrast which i think is untenable and therefore incompatible with the spirit of article 9. the second contrast is between the question of economic governance on the one hand and the question of public spending on the other. if we want to cut public spending, we have to do it quickly, otherwise we are heading for disaster. we must reduce the debt in 20 years at most and, if possible, even faster, no impact studies, no real thinking. when it comes to generating new revenue - because a budget is both revenue and expenditure after all - taxes on financial transactions, taxes on energy, consolidated corporate tax base, we say "wait, we have to study, we have to think about the impact anyway, we have to not overdo it. let us think, take time, study... " and so, i don't really understand why on the one hand, you have to go fast and hard and not worry about the impact, and on the other hand, you go slow and think, and in the meantime, people are drinking. these contrasts, i think, show everyone that article 9 does not carry the same weight as the articles dealing with economic convergence in the union's treaties and i think this is a contrast we must resolve if we want to regain the confidence of our citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, this report is a brick, it is a sum. it is almost exhaustive in terms of human rights and at the same time it has the faults of its qualities, that is to say, it is cumbersome, it is sometimes a little long to read but it is certainly not the fault of the rapporteur, but rather of the 423 amendments that he had to digest. so this is a feat for which mrs andrikiené should be congratulated. but the report also makes a clear demonstration that human rights, at the heart of european policies, are a complex, multifaceted subject and that, therefore, when the european parliament asks you, mrs ashton, a special rapporteur on human rights, a directorate-general for human rights, special training for the staff of the union's delegations abroad, and among that staff, a person who is very specifically responsible for monitoring human rights in the country in question, if parliament wants such structures, it is certainly not to bureaucratize the field, it is that there is really work to be done. the report does not ignore the serious problems and violations that continue to plague the world, but it is not a litany of horrors. it is right to highlight the efforts made, and does not hesitate to recommend actions and topics for dialogue. in conclusion, it reflects the importance and richness of the work done by the european union. the commission has developed a set of tools which can really help to promote democracy in the world. it has yet to convince its interlocutors that human rights are not a brake on growth and international trade, nor a drag in external relations, but on the contrary, an added value in terms of stability and prosperity. and you, madam high representative, have very well taken up the torch of human rights and left your mark at the end of this first year after the treaty of lisbon.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by mr pino arlacchi, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a new strategy for afghanistan (2009/2217 (ini)) (a7-0333/2010).
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i would first like to congratulate my colleague preda and his team on the remarkable work they have done, and also catherine ashton, the high representative, on the determination she has shown with the entire international community in monitoring these elections. for all of us who are absolutely fond of this extraordinary tool of election observation missions to promote democracy in a country, the fact that there is finally such a swift and determined follow-up to an attempt to illegitimately appropriate the election result warms our hearts and we hope that this can happen in other contexts if ever, alas, the situation requires it. now i would also like to say - because i have been told this many times - that ouattara is not europe's candidate. the whole international community has moved - and this is what is extraordinary - that is to say the african union, the economic community of west africa, the united nations, europe, etc., with one voice, and this too is to be marked with a white stone. now, on the question of mr ouattara wanting to take his activists to the streets, i am obviously a little bit more worried because i do not see peaceful solutions in the streets, in the context of the forces present. and i would like to return to a document which is currently being drafted in the acp and which was already discussed in kinshasa at the last acp meeting, where some of us were present. the title of the report is extraordinary: 'challenges for the future of democracy and respect for the constitutional order', and an african and a european representative are responsible for its drafting. and there's a lot of very legal stuff in that text and three pages that are devoted to power-sharing when one of the parties is trying to illegitimately seize power. these three pages of advice outline the course to follow to avoid a bloodbath. for it may not be in the streets, but perhaps through negotiations which would aim - once we have recognised who was the winner, of course, all the pressure is necessary - at some form of power sharing, that we may possibly be able to avoid a bloodbath. i recommend that you read this document. it is very informative and showed me that the african political culture may not know democracy, but certainly negotiations.
for the greens/efa group madam president, like those who have gone before me, i too, of course, point out the seriousness of the situation today, the acute political crisis but also the risk of clashes that could well take place in the coming hours. and so, in this respect, it is obvious that i welcome the unambiguous position taken by the entire international community and i think that beyond the need to give democracy its due, we have a responsibility not only to spare the ivorian people but also to give a signal, a clear signal that change in africa is possible. because, beyond the question of the ivorian people themselves, their security and the tensions that exist in that country today, which could reign in the coming days and months, the questions also concern the neighbouring countries. there will be elections in other neighbouring countries where the question of the alternation of an outgoing president against a new president could also arise. i think it is extremely important that in côte d'ivoire - not only because these people have already suffered enough, but also because it will serve as an example to neighbouring countries, and i am thinking of course of the congo, which will undoubtedly be the case in an election period next year, in 2011 - without any prejudice to the outcome, the question of democratic alternation can be played out peacefully, in a negotiated manner, with the support of the international community and in opposition, in any case, to all those who, on this occasion, would provoke bloodshed or, in any case, take the civilian population hostage. i welcome your statements on how to monitor, exert and maintain pressure in the coming weeks to preserve peace.
draft report by the committee on transport and tourism. - i would first like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this complex and very technical dossier, which is also very important for our future work. the old comitology procedure with the four different options was not unknown to our committee on transport and tourism and we have been familiar with how to deal with implementing decisions for a long time. but as regards the adjustments under the lisbon treaty, i would like to say that we support the compromises negotiated by the rapporteur with the council. however, there are two things we would like to draw your attention to. firstly, we want maximum information to be sent to parliament and maximum involvement of parliament, including in the preparation of decisions of the committee. secondly, i would like to stress the importance of a good approach to the transitional period, asking the commission to be generous in the transition from the comitology procedure existing in the acquis to the new delegated and implementing acts in favour of parliament, when a choice between both procedures may be open to discussion. this means not only the transposition but also the application of the current acquis pending transposition.
in writing. the european heritage label is, alongside other initiatives, an additional means of bringing the union closer to its citizens and of reinforcing the feeling of belonging to europe. it will also improve knowledge of europe's common history and heritage. the label will help to encourage multilingualism and dialogue between cultures, as well as the creation of networks to promote european heritage and stimulate economic attractiveness, in particular through cultural tourism. promoting the label enhances multicultural dialogue.
in writing. although not a member of the european economic area, switzerland has continued to express interest in closer cooperation with the european union in the field of education, training and youth. the conclusion of this agreement on switzerland's participation in the youth in action programme and the action programme in the field of lifelong learning is a very positive consequence. the concept of lifelong learning is essential to the competitiveness of the knowledge economy. it applies to all levels of education and training and concerns all stages of life and different forms of learning. exchanges, cooperation and mobility must be developed and strengthened. in addition, it is important to encourage the participation of young people in public life, in particular the most disadvantaged and disabled, and their spirit of initiative, enterprise and creativity in order to promote a sense of active european citizenship, develop solidarity and encourage tolerance.
in writing. yesterday, the european parliament awarded the sakharov prize for freedom of opinion to the absent cuban guillermo fariñas. an empty chair, because havana wouldn't have let him go home... a shocking, symbolic example, which viciously reminds us that the human rights situation in the world is not improving. the death penalty, which is very close to home in belarus, stoning and hanging in iran, female genital mutilation in somalia, gang rape in the democratic republic of congo, the murder of journalists in russia, 215 million children at work, arbitrary detentions, mock trials, censorship - all these barbarities require the european union to be firm and uncompromising. the report voted today calls for human rights to be at the heart of the european union's external action, in its development, defence, trade, fisheries, immigration and justice policies. the universality of these values must prevail over geopolitics, which was cynically revealed on 10 december last when 15 countries cowardly responded to china's explicit demand to boycott the award of the nobel peace prize to lu xiaobo of china.
in writing. − the report on the 2009 annual report on human rights in the world and the european union's human rights policy provides a near-complete overview of human rights problems in the world. the report also addresses a new set of human rights problems, such as the protection of human rights and the fight against terrorism. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this is very important as the eeas as a new instrument can give us the opportunity to revise the eu's human rights policy and to defend human rights worldwide in a more coherent and effective way. i therefore support the proposal to appoint a high representative to coordinate the union's human rights policy with his or her department on a permanent basis. the message is clear: human rights must be at the heart of the european union's foreign policy. the commission has a long way to go but the ep is keeping its finger on the pulse. that is a very good thing.
in writing. we have a duty to enforce the electoral results of the ballot box, which express the will of the ivorian people. the results proclaimed by the constitutional council are contrary to the will of the ivorian people. we cannot accept this unconstitutional and undemocratic hold up. on 28 november 2010, alassane ouattara was declared the legitimate winner of the presidential election by the independent electoral commission and by almost the entire international community. it is urgent for the stability of the country and the whole of the subregion that the strategy of rotting implemented by laurent gbagbo be brought to an end as soon as possible.
in writing. animal welfare in general and in this case that of laying hens is a serious matter. the evidence is that not only did the european union legislate on the subject by means of a directive in 1999 which aims to ban battery-laying hens by 1 january 2012, but the transposition of this text in 2004 gave rise to a dispute between wallonians and flemings. it is essential in this debate to keep our heads and find a solution which takes into account both animal welfare and the economic interests involved. those who say that the rules of the community game must be respected, that unfair competition between farmers must be avoided and that a transitional period of 12 years is more than enough to pay off the investments are right. but those who oppose the rules, especially in this period of austerity, and who say that the changeover to enriched cages or to land-based farming will cost the poultry sector a lot of money, which does not benefit from direct aid from the cap, are also right. that is why i supported the three amendments tabled by the ppe group which take account of the daily reality of all european farmers.
author. - mr president, commissioner, exactly one year ago we voted in this house on a resolution on gays and lesbians and the bahati law in uganda. why come back a year later with almost the same resolution? because the problem is far from over. first, the evangelical movement the family, which was behind the bahati law, did not give up and we can still see the resurgence of this law in uganda. the second reason is that last october and november, the ugandan newspaper rolling stone made a name and shame and published the list of ugandan homosexuals who were immediately hunted down and raped and are still hiding today as outcasts. the ugandan constitutional court has ordered the newspaper to stop publishing, but the atmosphere is clearly deteriorating. this is a manhunt. third, only thirteen african countries recognize the rights of homosexuals. the rest of the countries have very different laws, but some of them - sudan, northern nigeria, mauritania - still punish homosexuals with death. so, and i'll end with this, there was a very recent statement, i would say a bit unilateral, from the acp countries, saying, "yes, we're bothering you a little bit about this homosexual problem, but it's our cultural aspects". no, these are human rights, these are universal values and we really want these universal values to be firmly defended by the commission and by the whole of the european union.
