mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, the death and disappearance of the body of seyyed ali moussavi, the nephew of the leader of the iranian opposition, is one tragic example among many that show the state of disorder in which the islamic republic of iran is currently found. the legitimacy of the iranian regime that emerged from the highly dubious elections last june is questionable to say the least. so our task is to support as much as we can the iranian civil society in its resistance movement. mrs ashton, you can be assured of the full support of this parliament in condemning this type of action. i would like to stress that the iranian regime will not be able to convince us of its willingness to act for the welfare of the iranian people by continuing to deny the role of the opposition. the right of the opposition to exist and its right to free competition between parties to represent the plurality of opinions in iranian society are positive signs that we have been waiting for for a long time. but we are far from seeing this in iran. it is true that many now believe that it is up to the iranian regime to heed the calls of the protesters and the wishes of the international community for a democratic transition. europe must be the main witness to the rule of law.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate mrs joly on the quality of her report. the revision of the cotonou agreement should provide an opportunity to take stock of the situation and, on the basis of the lessons learned, to propose solutions to improve its implementation, functioning and impact. as such, the clear identification of priorities is extremely important. i would like to stress three points. first of all, we must clarify the content of the political dialogue. we must not lose sight of peacebuilding, conflict prevention and resolution, but making existing instruments operational and adding references to the fight against the trafficking of small arms and drugs are challenges which, once overcome, will have a positive impact on the political, economic and social levels. secondly, it is very important to conclude flexible, balanced and regional development-oriented economic partnership agreements. key sectors such as agriculture, renewable energy and youth employment should be given more consideration. regular dialogue with the local populations will allow for realistic adjustment. finally, the institutional framework is of paramount importance. there is a great need for greater cohesion between the various pillars of the agreement. the strengthening of the power of the app and national parliaments will automatically lead to greater democratic control and, above all, greater transparency. in conclusion, any instrument, whether new or revised, must preserve the fundamental principles and spirit of the agreement and, above all, we must not lose sight of the central objective, which is the eradication of poverty, while contributing to sustainable development and the progressive integration of the acp into the world economy.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, the commission and the spanish presidency on their courage in finally finding a serious solution to this problem. when we talk about trafficking in human beings, it is extremely important to consider establishing a permanent platform at the level of the european union. such a platform will contribute to the coordination and greater impact of member states' actions in terms of enforcement, protection and assistance provided to victims of such trafficking. the designation of a european union coordinator for combating trafficking in human beings, working under the direct authority of the commissioner responsible for justice, fundamental rights and citizenship, will ensure a unified and consistent policy approach by all member states to combat this serious crime. the role of the coordinator will be to identify the problems and sources of trafficking in human beings, to carry out prevention, to develop and implement strategies at european level involving active cooperation and consultation with civil society structures, to organise information campaigns and to put in place measures to strengthen the protection and assistance of victims and their support in the recovery process. successfully addressing this global, transnational problem requires a coordinated strategy at european level to guide and support member states in their combined efforts to effectively combat trafficking in human beings. thank you very much for your attention.
thank you, madam chairman. the danube strategy can provide the potential for the effective implementation of cohesion policy in this geographical area. the member states are interested and will make proposals for it by the end of the month. but how many of them are publicly discussed? how many countries have started the public consultation process? i explicitly emphasise the central role that the danube regions and cities should have in the development of the strategy. i mean local governments, ngos, businesses, citizens. their involvement can ensure that the strategy will respond to needs, solve problems and contribute to the development of both the settlements and the macro-region as a whole. i am confident that the european commission will provide an opportunity to be involved in the strategy-making process. i would like to warn you about the danger of meetings, conferences, information, generally speaking, and then participation, being concentrated in a few central cities, and the rest being left out of the processes. now they too can take their place in the decision-making process and participate in decisions that affect them. smaller settlements will also be able to identify the steps for change, develop conditions and resources and contribute to the achievement of the objectives. the public will contribute to integrated, intensive and simultaneous development in the different sectors, which in turn is a prerequisite for rapid and qualitative growth. this should be the ultimate goal of the danube strategy, given that the lower danube also contains the poorest regions of the european union. in the year of combating poverty, we are obliged to state that tackling poverty and inequality in the danube region is a challenge that must be addressed through the strategy. the situation in poorer regions, the disparities in opportunities and resources also raise the particularly important question of investment. the establishment of a specialised european danube bank with the participation of the countries concerned should also be considered.
madam president, i strongly support the elaboration of this eu strategy for the danube region. historically, the river danube has connected western and eastern europe and belonging to the danube region has evolved a sense of community among people. we can say that this facilitated cultural and economic cooperation long before the idea of european integration was born. this strategy is an opportunity to put into practice the valuable principles of solidarity and cooperation. the document should be based on a bottom-up approach, as some colleagues, including mrs hyusmenova, have already pointed out. its priorities should come from the danube municipalities, districts and cities and it is very important that regional authorities and civil society recognise the strategy as their tool for better cooperation and coordination. so real ownership of the process is needed here. the danube countries face similar environmental and infrastructural problems. they aim at strong socioeconomic development and endeavour to have higher living standards for their citizens. i am convinced that the danube strategy will contribute to achieving these aims and resolve common problems by more effective and efficient use of available funds, that it will facilitate the realisation of common projects and that european citizens will then benefit from its results. i agree also that a common approach which does not have too many priorities is needed. the danube strategy will be an excellent instrument to considerably enhance cross-border cooperation in this region, and i strongly believe and hope that the commission will do its best to fully support its implementation, including by allocating additional financial resources.
i would like to begin, madam president, by quoting erhard busek, the coordinator of the stability pact, who said a while ago - and i quote from memory - 'we will not allow any citizen along the danube to develop a sense of provincialism.' the truth is that a long time has passed since then and the construction of the european strategy for the danube region is still a project whose current status is still very little known. in fact, the danube strategy aims to make the municipalities, regions and danube countries develop together. the initiative involves 14 countries with a population of over 200 million people, but these are countries that differ in their economic development. the lowest economic status is the lower danube countries. i would like to draw attention to three important problems for my country bulgaria, which we believe must be solved along with the need for rehabilitation of... the toll for crossing the bridge and the expansion of the roads biella-russe and ruse-shumen envisaged by the bulgarian state. the bulgarian part of the danube, excluding the towns of ruse, where the only bridge connecting the two banks of the danube, vidin and silistra, is perhaps the part with the most economically backward municipalities. these communes, 39 in number, are peripheral and for them the danube is not an opportunity but still an insurmountable barrier. by comparison, the city of budapest alone has nine bridges that connect the two banks of the danube, and bulgaria has only one. this analysis is the basis of the proposal launched by the mayors of the danube municipalities in bulgaria to implement a project to build a panoramic road connecting the cities along the danube river. this project has already been submitted to the regional development ministers. the second issue is related to solving the geoecological problems of the danube river and the cleanliness of the water. thank you, sir.
madam president, mr commissioner, over the years there have been many initiatives to develop cooperation on europe's largest river in the fields of transport, the environment, culture, education, trade and many others. today, these many projects are a problem. they don't give a solution. the result is the opposite of what we expected. there is insufficient effective cooperation, there is no coordination, there are no common goals, there is no synergy of efforts. what we are insisting on, in order to be seen in the synergy that will be prepared by the european commission, is that it should not become just another instrument for cooperation on the danube, but that it should actually be the instrument that creates a common synergy, that coordinates, that brings together the possibilities of the various initiatives that exist in this region. in this way, and only with the participation of the widest possible range of stakeholders in both the european parliament and citizens, synergy can be achieved in the interests of all citizens in the fourteen countries along the danube. and that's the message i want to give you from a big conference of students at the university of rousseau, which was held a few weeks ago. thank you, sir.
my dear mrs. president. - ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr tarabella, on his report. i am firmly convinced that this report is the answer to the need to combat stereotypes and gender discrimination. for many of my colleagues it may be another, but for me it is a renewed and more effective commitment to gender equality at european level, to raise the socioeconomic status of women, and especially of the new member states, their wider representation on the political and business scene and to promote their career growth. given that social, legal and economic institutions determine women's and men's access to resources, their opportunities and their relative power, it is of paramount importance to me that women are guaranteed equal rights in terms of political participation, holding important political and managerial positions in business, representation at the highest level on company boards, and higher educational attainment and equal opportunities for career growth with men, especially after long maternity leave, while always taking into account the issue of maintaining a balance between professional and family responsibilities. we need to build an institutional mechanism that will initiate a consistent policy on this problem, because the fight against gender discrimination is achieved through the introduction of positive and encouraging measures in the long term, legislative reforms, increasing incomes and quality of life, otherwise we would not be talking about this issue in this chamber today. to make significant progress on equality before the law, equality of opportunity, including equal pay for equal work and equal access to human resources, and other productive resources that offer more opportunities, we - the european parliament, the european commission - have the opportunity and must encourage member states and civil society to take effective measures. i am convinced that women's equal participation in resource management, economic opportunities, power and political voice will have a positive impact on the economic development of our societies, strengthening the capacity of countries to develop, reduce poverty and be governed effectively and better. in this sense, promoting gender equality is an important part of the strategy to emerge from the economic crisis and to respond adequately to the demographic crisis. it will empower women and men to overcome poverty and improve their standard of living.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr füle, i would like to join in congratulating you as a new member of the european commission and to note that it is perhaps a really important signal that today, the first debate in this parliament of the new commission is precisely on enlargement. indeed, it goes without saying that enlargement has proved to be one of the european union's most successful policies. i wish you luck. our parliament will do everything it can to support you in these efforts, because we here in the european parliament are the strongest supporters of the expansion of this area of security, of prosperity, of citizens' rights, which is the european union. in this sense, i think that the statements of the three rapporteurs have demonstrated the serious work that has been done by the foreign affairs committee and by them personally. i would like to congratulate them on this and say that these three reports which we are discussing today were adopted by a large majority in the committee on foreign affairs. i believe that will happen today. i want to emphasise that with our reports we want to send a very clear signal to all three parties, although the general debate will probably somewhat blur our messages, that we remain committed to the process, but there are issues that cannot be circumvented and the three parties must fulfil. they are primarily related to the fact that the european parliament cannot turn a blind eye, will not turn a blind eye, to the whole range of issues relating to the implementation of the copenhagen criteria, to respect for fundamental rights, freedom of the media, freedom of association, protection of minority rights, good neighbourly relations, etc. i would like to focus briefly on three issues which i believe are essential for progress on the accession of the three countries. first, as regards croatia, it is clear that the path to membership for that country is now open. the agreement reached with slovenia is very important, but we call for it to be ratified as soon as possible so that negotiations with croatia can be concluded as early as this year. as regards macedonia, we hope that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia will show the necessary flexibility and we hope that the new greek government will find a solution to the name issue so that macedonia will receive a date for the start of negotiations this year. as for turkey, the cyprus question cannot be avoided, it cannot fail to be developed first, and only then can turkey hope for substantial progress in its integration process.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his meticulous work. i think there is a difference between the text adopted last year and the one now proposed on turkey. in its 2009 resolution, the european parliament had focused on the cyprus negotiations without setting any preconditions related to the settlements or the situation in famagusta. these issues are being addressed in the six chapters of the negotiations, which are continuing under the auspices of the united nations. i therefore believe that taking such a strong and biased position in parliament could damage these negotiations and make us biased. as the former commissioner pointed out on 16 november 2006, the return of famagusta to its rightful inhabitants is a matter which will have to be dealt with under the auspices of the united nations, as part of a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus question. i would also like to quote another conclusion of the council. in 2004, the turkish cypriot community made clear its desire to have a future within the european union. the council is determined to end the isolation of the turkish cypriot community and to facilitate the reunification of cyprus by encouraging the economic development of the turkish cypriot community. (applause) i would like to thank
madam chairman, mr. füle, welcome to the club. i wish you success in your work. i would like to thank mr swoboda and mr thaler and mrs oomen-ruijten for their balanced and objective reports. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its political will for the accession of the so-called western balkan countries to the european union and its readiness to provide assistance to these countries so that they can meet the membership criteria quickly. croatia is in the final stages and i very much hope that the accession treaty for that country will be signed this year. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has made progress in fulfilling the criteria for the opening of the pre-accession process. the european council is expected to reaffirm the european commission's decision at the end of last year and to launch an accession process. for this to happen, i think that burm should make additional efforts to solve inter-neighbourhood problems in a european spirit. given the political will on the part of the authorities in skopje not to use history - whether ancient or more recent - to argue current political or national issues, a compromise can be reached. history should unite us, not divide us. let historians draw their own academic conclusions, but they should not be a hindrance to the european future of any candidate country. so-called hate speech should not be tolerated. i want to focus specifically on the textbooks that children learn from. they must not contain qualifications which would provoke hostility towards other member states. the instrument for building confidence in the balkans is not only visa liberalisation, which is a fact and for which i am very pleased, but also, in my view, the joint celebration of historical dates and heroes that are common to some balkan countries. i hope that the recommendations of the reports will be taken into account by the relevant institutions in the member states. i wish croatia, macedonia and turkey success on their european path.
madam president, we should continue to support the eu membership perspective for the countries of the western balkans. the whole process supports stability and we should keep up the momentum. as the rapporteur for visa facilitation in the delegation to the european union-former yugoslav republic of macedonia joint parliamentary committee, i think that introducing the visa-free regime in the country was a very important encouragement for its people. the last commission report points out that fyrom has achieved progress in many areas, and this is commendable. i come from a neighbouring country, bulgaria, and we, as neighbouring countries, see some worrying trends. in my opinion, the name issue should not come first. macedonian nation-building started after the second world war and now a big part of the population identify themselves as macedonians. however, we have to stick to our values: we cannot tolerate nation-building being confused with nationalistic rhetoric or with gross manipulation of history, going back to ancient times. secondly, affirming national identity should not lead to xenophobic feelings towards citizens who declare themselves to be of bulgarian origin. these people are subjected to verbal and physical abuse and even legally persecuted for fabricated reasons.
in writing. the resolution on equality between women and men in the european union seems to me to be very balanced and i welcome the work done by mr tarabella to achieve this result. there are still glaring inequalities between men and women in the employment sector, particularly when it comes to pay gaps and reconciling work and family life. efforts are still needed in this area. in addition, in terms of the protection of sexual and reproductive rights, women's access to contraception and abortion is paramount. women must be able to exercise their full physical autonomy. that is why i voted in favour of the provisions on the protection of these rights. finally, i voted against the proposal to create a european charter of women's rights, because since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the charter of fundamental rights, which includes women's rights, has been an integral part of the treaties. the charter is legally binding and provides equal protection for women and men.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, one of the inconveniences of being responsible for both enlargement and neighbourhood policy is that you will spend more time in this room. now for the gist. we must say that the elections in ukraine were highly rated by international observers, despite the instability of the legislation surrounding the elections themselves. the fact that changes were made at the last minute, it can be said that they did not directly affect the outcome of this election. in fact, we can say that democracy has won in ukraine above all, because when a sitting president who is running again and only gets 5 percent, that seems to me to be a very clear signal that democracy is working. one of the rules of democracy is to accept the outcome of an election as it is and to recognize the victory of the opponent when the evaluation of the election itself is positive, and therefore our message to the losing candidate must be very clear: ukraine needs political stability, ukraine needs to be given the opportunity to finally launch long overdue reforms. and here, in addition to these messages, we must clearly say that through our policy, through our neighbourhood policy, through the eastern partnership, we will help ukraine to move forward again.
on behalf of the alde group. mrs the chairman, mr. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis has indeed had a detrimental effect on trade in the member states of the european union. for example, in countries like bulgaria, exports in the first 11 months of last year were down by a whopping 24% compared to last year, and imports by 35%. sectors particularly affected are real estate and tourism. this has a very strong employment impact. a significant increase in inter-company indebtedness, non-payment of public procurement by state and municipal organisations, etc. is taken into account. the problems presented above are common to other countries and require a complex solution at community level, which requires close cooperation between the different directorates in the european commission. commissioner de gucht stressed the importance of supporting the expansion of european companies' activities and capabilities, the application of clear trade safeguards, the successful conclusion of the doha negotiations, the use of new opportunities for foreign direct investment and their protection, and a new investment policy in the context of the financial crisis. the achievement of these objectives, as well as the successful conclusion of economic cooperation agreements with african, caribbean and pacific countries, are also closely linked to the recovery from the financial crisis. but a number of issues are on the agenda, and some of them have already been raised. are we using european funding effectively to combat high unemployment, what can the european union do with the current deficit, currency devaluation and high inflation that have a direct impact on trade? what are the european union's trade policy instruments to deal with the financial crisis and its aftermath? what measures should be taken to avoid a recurrence of a crisis of this magnitude and to continue the development of trade? what will be our strategy towards countries like india and china that threaten to change the entire financial system? i am counting on this europe 2020 strategy to provide those answers.
ladies and gentlemen, the crisis has inevitably led to a significant reduction in the volume of world trade, which is also reflected in a contraction in production and investment, as well as in limited opportunities for growth. at the same time, national governments are strongly tempted to impose barriers to preserve native production. in the past year, 2009 has seen a worrying increase in the various forms of national protection, both in individual member states of the european union and in new emerging economies. for smes, the backbone of the european economy, this protectionism makes access to international markets more difficult and imposes additional burdens and restrictions. to overcome these problems and to stimulate entrepreneurship and trade, i believe that europe needs above all a strong internal market. this can be achieved if the european economy is sufficiently competitive, innovative and based on high quality standards. as the european commission notes, despite the progress made, we must continue to work on increasing the capacity of education systems to contribute to an innovative and dynamic knowledge society. i believe that a prerequisite for overcoming trade imbalances is the need for sound public finances in the european union to ensure the sustainability of national economies and the european currency. the stability of the euro is crucial to the confidence of our trading partners. the timely implementation of the necessary structural reforms to lay new sustainable foundations for growth is an additional stimulus to the revival of trade and investment. last but not least, i believe that the internal market would be strengthened by a sensible and timely enlargement of the euro area, which would contribute to the economic integration of european countries and make the european economy even more influential vis-à-vis its international partners.
in writing. i voted against the swift agreement between the council of the european union and the united states, as i consider that the guarantees provided in the area of data protection are insufficient. without questioning the necessity of the fight against terrorism, given the very real threat it poses today, i remain convinced that the security of european citizens cannot be guaranteed without ensuring full respect for their personal data. the current swift agreement is too vague about cases where the us could transfer european data to third countries. a clear mechanism for regulating such exchanges of data must be provided for. as for the possibility of appeal by citizens or businesses who feel that their data have not been properly processed, article 11 of the agreement is largely insufficient. while it ensures data protection when processed on eu soil, what about european data processed in the us? the negotiations will have to be conducted in a transparent and democratic manner, with the full support of the european parliament, as provided for in the lisbon treaty for this type of international agreement.
mr president, mrs georgieva, mr lópez garrido, i would like to draw your attention in this resolution to paragraph 13 concerning iran's candidacy for the un human rights council. on 15 february, iran was subjected to the universal periodic review, which reviews the situation of the protection and promotion of human rights in the country. the iranian regime has claimed that there is no lack of respect in the country. i would like to draw attention to a few different facts in relation to these claims made by the present regime. yesterday in this parliament mrs maryam rajavi gave us an account of the arbitrary arrests and torture of iranian women and opponents of the regime. the political conditions of the prisoners are also deplorable, and the ashraf camp has become a symbol of the lack of respect for human rights. several of my colleagues in parliament gave their views during the january part-session. today we cannot accept that iran should become a member of the highest human rights body. i wonder what message we are sending to other states which actually respect human rights. europe must speak with one voice, showing continuity and, as mrs ashton said in her statements, let us say that the candidacy of iran is not even conceivable at this stage.
mr president, let me on behalf of the group of socialist and democrats express our concerns about the human rights situation in belarus, and particularly with regard to the recent developments with the union of poles. we would like also to express our solidarity with all the citizens of belarus who are not able to enjoy their basic civil and human rights. this is in a european country in the 21st century. i think this is an issue which is not acceptable and we can all agree on that. this is the starting point. the main questions we have to pose now are, first, where we want to bring belarus and, second, how we can do it. on the first question i think we can all agree: we want to see belarus democratic; we want to see belarusian authorities democratically elected – parliament, president, governments, and local representatives; we want to see these authorities creating a free and creative atmosphere in belarus; and of course we want to see the country moving closer to the eu. the second question is how we can achieve this. the european union has changed its policy towards belarus from isolation to engagement, and it seems that this policy is producing some results. of course it is not enough, it is not being done quickly enough, and the developments we see, as in the last two weeks, show that we have to be much more committed. what i have discovered as chair of the euronest delegation and chair of the delegation that is going to belarus tomorrow to see the situation on the ground is that we lack a joint strategy between the three main institutions: council, commission and parliament. we need such a strategy in order to reinforce each other’s efforts, and we really need a political dialogue; we need a road map for belarus which is very concrete, not just general recommendations but an action plan – a road map – which belarus should adhere to. this is the way to continue and it is not enough to do it only under the economic cooperation and the eastern partnership.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, looking back at what has been achieved since the adoption of the declaration and platform for action in beijing 15 years ago, one cannot deny that a lot remains to be done. we are still far from beijing’s strategic objectives. inequality and gender stereotypes persist in all the world’s regions, including the european union. if we want to make progress on this agenda it is crucial to have, at national and eu level, reliable and comparable data on the beijing indicators. we then also need to make sure these indicators are monitored in a timely fashion in order to update our eu strategy on gender equality accordingly. here in europe we still have a lot to address. let us take the situation in the labour market: we need to fill the gender pay gap while also looking at the place and the representation of women in leadership positions in both public and private organisations. going more deeply into social considerations, inequalities and discrimination affecting women lead to exclusion and poverty most of the time. poverty is the greatest single determinant of health. the feminisation of poverty has a real impact on the physical and mental health of women. minority women are experiencing poverty, exclusion and discrimination. their needs are largely unknown and ignored and their voices are not heard. for roma women, life expectancy can be up to 10 years less than those of the majority. infant mortality is three to four times greater than the majority population. discrimination, exclusion and poverty also need to be considered in the light of the ageing population. the differences in life expectancy between men and women will entail increased economic and social difficulties for single elderly women. this is the new rising phenomenon and a serious one which has to be closely looked at and properly addressed. finally, madam commissioner, i would like to strongly encourage you to come up with a directive on violence against women. all of us will be behind you.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i would like to congratulate eva-britt svensson on the drafting of this resolution on the united nations programme of action for gender equality. even today, inequality between men and women persists in many sectors. i am thinking here of the employment sector, where the pay gap is glaring and where the balance between work and family life has yet to be defined. i could name many more. despite efforts to tackle gender inequality, not all the objectives of the beijing 15 action programme have been fully achieved. it is not a question of redefining our objectives indefinitely, for we know them well. we must look at the means by which they are being achieved. it seems to me therefore essential that the european union should define its strategy in the context of the objectives of the united nations programme of action, and that it should do so along three main lines. our strategy must be structured around the short, medium and long term. in the short term, a thorough examination of all sensitive areas in the context of the economic and financial crisis must be carried out. the aim is to define precise indicators to assess and measure the impact of the crisis on women's employment and economic situation. these indicators should focus on economic, social and environmental aspects. in the medium term, the aim is to ensure that the statistical data we have are regularly monitored and updated at national level. the series of indicators already developed in the beijing action programme will therefore have to be reviewed regularly in the light of the political, economic and social context. taking these two aspects into account will ensure the european coherence needed to achieve our common objectives. finally, in the long term, we must ensure that gender equality policies are mainstreamed, but also encourage the exchange of good practice between states and, of course, ensure that the european commission's roadmap is consistent with the progress made. by adopting this three-tier structure, we significantly increase our chances of finally achieving our initial objectives.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the need to develop a common energy policy for the union quickly has so far been held only when a crisis has arisen, such as that of the winter of 2009. we can say with concern that this cannot continue, and i therefore welcome mrs vaillant's report and regard it as an important step towards the construction of a pan-european energy policy. it is clear that the adoption of a series of directives and regulations in the energy sector will create the necessary conditions for the development of such a common policy. i believe that the time is not far off when we will also be talking about a treaty to create an energy community of the union. the introduction of a system for the notification of investment projects in energy in individual member states will allow the commission to have a complete picture of the development of energy infrastructure in the union and to guide the countries towards addressing the weakest and most problematic points. this will provide an adequate and reliable infrastructure both for the functioning of the internal energy market and for crisis mitigation. most importantly, an adequate pan-european energy infrastructure is a prerequisite for a common eu external energy policy, which the ep has called for in a number of its documents.
for the first time since the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, we have formulated a common fisheries policy, conscious of our great responsibilities as a result of the increased powers of parliament. the green paper was a very lively debate and i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work. i would like to stress one feature of the proposed reform which is essential for the development of the whole sector. it must take account of the changed situation following the 2004 and 2007 enlargements of the european union and the new member states. the existing system of research and analysis, of decision-making, must take account of the new water basins and their specificities, and here i would like to stress the need for special attention to the black sea and the creation of specialised bodies for its management. we have to take into account the interests of the people in these coastal areas, environmental issues and the fishing industry. i say this also in the context of the next financial framework 2014-2020, in which this reform must be secured. finally, i do not think it is appropriate to support the proposal to reduce the overcapacity of fleets, which could have negative consequences for fisheries in the context of a severe financial and economic crisis.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr coelho, for the work he has done and to welcome the cooperation that has been established between parliament, the council and the commission in the consolidation of the two reports and the first reading, which should also be the last. it was crucial that this report be adopted before the end of april 2010 so that it could be implemented at the same time as the visa code. it is of great importance that anyone living in the european union can travel to all the member states. in this way we can solve the cumulative problem of applying d+c visas and rules for residence permits. the report will allow anyone from a third country with a long-stay visa to travel anywhere in europe for six months a year. all persons concerned should be given all the necessary information when they receive their visa and, above all, they should be informed that this visa will automatically become a residence permit before the expiry of the first year. finally, it is important to emphasise that for security reasons, every person applying for a d visa will have to be investigated but not registered in the sis. the contracting party shall take due account of any information already entered in sis by another contracting party. furthermore, if sis ii is not implemented by the end of 2012, we call on the commission and the council to present the necessary legislation to ensure the same level of data protection as that established by sis ii.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, thank you very much. i am delighted to be with you to discuss the big questions on europe’s international agenda. i want to begin by thanking mr albertini and mr danjean for their excellent reports. you have underlined, if i may say, the number, range and urgency of the challenges we face. from strengthening the rule of law in kosovo to working with the emerging powers to share responsibility for global governance, from promoting peace in the middle east – and may i join vice-president biden in condemning the decision to build 1 600 new houses in east jerusalem – to providing shelter to the surviving victims of haiti’s earthquake, which i visited last week, from dealing with proliferation problems such as iran, to devising effective answers to ‘new’ challenges such as energy, climate change and cyber security. europe is going through a phase of building something new, where people have to adjust their mental maps and institutions have to find their new place. doing so is messy and complicated – but also exciting, for it is impossible to overstate how important this moment is. right now we have a chance to build what many across europe – and many in this house – have long wanted: a stronger, more credible european foreign policy. of course the european external action service will be key to delivering this. we have to build a system that is robust, that will enable us to deal with the problems of today and the new problems that will arise tomorrow. for years, we have been trying to frame and implement comprehensive strategies but the structures and the systems we had made this difficult. with the lisbon treaty and the external action service we should now be able to achieve this. at the heart of everything we do lies a simple truth: to protect our interests and promote our values we must be engaged abroad. no one can hope to be an island of stability and prosperity in a sea of insecurity and injustice. ours is, if i may say, a world in flux. to engage with it effectively, we need to frame it first. to me the most striking features of today’s world are twofold. one, a deep interdependence in political, economic and security terms: technologies, ideas, diseases, money – everything moves. we are connected in ways we have never been before. two, the fact that power is shifting, both within political systems – roughly from governments to markets, media and ngos – and between political systems – roughly from the old ‘west’ to both the east and the south. both are the outcome of globalisation which is not just an economic but also a political phenomenon, both in its manifestations and, of course, its consequences. think of the rise of china and others as major political players, or consider the political impact of the financial crisis. the debts are in the west; the surpluses are in the east. this redistribution of financial power is also shaping our political discussions. or consider climate change, which is not just an environmental problem but also one with security and geopolitical ramifications. so we have to deal with complex problems and we do so in a new geopolitical landscape. we need to adapt. this is not a time to fly on auto-pilot or to stick to the narrow defence of national ways of doing things. it is a time to be smart and ambitious. let me give you some figures to illustrate the point. europe’s share of the world’s population is 7%, down from 25% a century ago. in the last 60 years, our share of global gdp has shrunk from 28% to 21%. the economies of china, india and others are racing ahead at 10% per year. economic weight is translating into political clout and self-confidence. you feel it everywhere: from negotiations on climate change to iran, to big energy deals in africa or central asia. if we pull together, we can safeguard our interests. if not, others will make the decisions for us. it is that simple, really that simple. my preference is clear. we should respond as europeans. firstly, by pulling together, because unity is a pre-condition for influence, and, secondly, by taking action, because the answer to a problem cannot be a paper or a meeting. if you want results, you have to act and sometimes take risks. and yes, there is a tendency in europe to put process ahead of outcomes. thirdly, by being both principled and creative because we must be both: principled in the defence of our values and creative in how we forge bespoke solutions to complex problems. as mr albertini’s report rightly points out, ‘a new approach is needed if the eu is to act collectively and meet the global challenges in a coherent, consistent and efficient manner’. out of that general picture come several core objectives: firstly, to ensure greater stability and security in our neighbourhood, by promoting political and economic reform. this is important in itself for reasons which are very self-evident, but our wider international credibility also depends on getting our neighbourhood right. secondly, to address global security challenges, the challenges of our time. for this, we need comprehensive strategies, strong international organisations and the rule of law both within countries and between them. thirdly, to build a network of strategic relationships with key countries and organisations because the problems we face cannot be solved by any single actor. on top of all this comes the creation of the european external action service – a means to achieve the other three objectives and a way to deliver the promise of the lisbon treaty. those are the core tasks to which i have devoted my time since i took on this role. i first went to washington and new york, which was the right way to start our important relationships with the united states and the un. i have since been to moscow, kiev, the balkans and haiti. i will go to the middle east next week and again to new york at the end of the month. in between, i have chaired the foreign affairs council three times, attended the informal european council and met with the college of commissioners. i have worked hard to build the necessary internal consensus, visiting various eu capitals: berlin, paris, london, vienna and ljubljana. naturally, i have spent a significant amount of time on the creation of the external action service and that will continue in the weeks ahead, including working with you. that is also why, because of the interests of this house, i have ensured involvement from the european parliament in the steering group that i set up. i will also discuss it this afternoon at the conference of presidents. when i come to the foreign affairs committee on 23 march we will have an opportunity for in-depth exchanges in the presence of all the relevant committees. any time you create something new, there will be resistance. some prefer to minimise perceived losses rather than maximise collective gains. i see it differently, and i hope the parliament does too. this is a once-in-a-generation opportunity to build something new, something that finally brings together the instruments of our engagement in support of a single political strategy. a huge chance for europe. we should not lower our ambitions but, rather, give ourselves the means to realise them. a moment to see the big picture, to be creative and take collective responsibility. if we get it right – and we must – then we will be able to shape a european foreign policy for the 21st century with an external service designed to achieve it: one where we mobilise all our levers of influence – political, economic, development and crisis management tools – in a coordinated way. a service that represents the european union in geographic and gender terms too. i believe that is the only acceptable way to go. let me illustrate what i have in mind when i say ‘comprehensive approach’ with a couple of examples. the western balkans – i was pleased to travel to the region recently. in a way, the balkans is the birthplace of eu foreign policy. more than anywhere else, it is where we cannot afford to fail. my purpose was to establish good working relations with political leaders, engage with civil society about what belonging to europe could mean, and ensure coordination among the different eu actors on the ground. one conclusion i drew was that the region is making progress, even if it is uneven and incomplete. the european perspective remains the overarching framework – both as our objective and as the main incentive for reform. as i stressed everywhere, progress on the path to the eu depends on the commitment to reform at home. on human rights, the rule of law and regional cooperation. we are backing up our strategy with available foreign-policy tools. in kosovo we have our biggest civilian mission and it is a success. in bosnia we have adjusted althea as the situation has stabilised and developed a training programme. we are pushing the european message hard in the run-up to the october elections. throughout the region we are making progress on visa liberalisation and people-to-people contact. so our balkan strategy is what it should be: strategic in its objectives, multi-faceted in terms of instruments and tailor-made in terms of implementation. the second example is the horn of africa. it highlights the interplay of state fragility, poverty, resource competition including water, with piracy, terrorism and organised crime. the only possible answer is a comprehensive one, which is exactly what we are doing. our naval operation atalanta has been widely hailed as a success. our next step is to further develop our options for the transfer of suspected pirates for prosecution in the region. we are adding a training mission for the tfg in somalia, with deployment expected in the spring. through our stability instrument we are funding flanking measures to build capacity, to train the maritime authorities and moving ahead with long-term development work in yemen and somalia on poverty, literacy and health. the way we are engaged in georgia follows the same script. when a frozen conflict erupted into open conflict in august 2008, we responded immediately. we took the international lead, we brokered a truce and deployed a 300-strong monitoring mission in record time. since then, we are engaged across the spectrum of community and csdp means of preventing a return to violence and building stability in georgia and in the region. with the un and osce, we lead the geneva talks, the only forum where all concerned meet. we hosted a donors’ conference for reconstruction and economic support in georgia and we included georgia – together with armenia and azerbaijan – in the european neighbourhood policy. we continue to promote those reforms and closer ties. we work on trade and visa liberalisation and we support confidence-building measures to rebuild ties with the breakaway republics. there is more work to do in georgia, and we have a full agenda when we discuss it with russia, as i did only 10 days ago with sergey lavrov. in this case we demonstrated what the eu can do when we fully mobilise the resources we have. those who were involved in those incredibly hectic weeks have told me that what was done in this case was exceptional. so we need stronger structures, more flexibility and better preparedness if we want georgia to be the benchmark for our action in the future. let me turn to our common security and defence policy and say that i agree with the broad thrust of the danjean report about how important our missions are. they save lives, create the space for functioning politics to work and they mean that europe can draw on all its instruments of power to meet its responsibilities. it is striking to me how far we have come in the last ten years. more than 70 000 men and women have been deployed in that period in more than 20 missions. we do crisis management in a european way with a comprehensive approach in support of international law and agreements and in close cooperation with our key partners. we work well with nato together in bosnia and herzegovina and along the coast of somalia. in kosovo and afghanistan it is more difficult because of the political issues. we need to get this right so i am working with the nato secretary general to improve eu-nato relations in practical areas and set a positive climate. let us see how we can develop our relations pragmatically. the un is another key partner. there are many good examples of eu and un cooperation on the ground – the democratic republic of congo, chad and indeed kosovo. in recent times we have got to know each other better, but we can and should strengthen this by focusing on areas such as planning and the sharing of best practice. in the danjean report, and more widely, people raise the question of whether it is time for the eu to have its own permanent operations headquarters. it is a serious issue that needs a serious debate. no one contests that we need a headquarters able to plan and conduct military operations. the question is whether the current system, relying on shape or national headquarters, is the most efficient way or if something else is better. we often find ourselves approaching this in terms of structures. i think we first need to do the analysis of what functions we need to perform. i see three main functions from which the decisions should flow: one, the ability to plan and conduct military operations, including advance planning, and to be able to react quickly when there is a need; two, the ability to develop civil-military coordination in a more structured way to maximise our capacity; and, three, the ability to establish links with others, to optimise the overall coordination and what we loosely call the ‘international community’. if we use that analysis as the starting point for our discussions, we should be able to establish the necessary common ground and move forward to determine what we should do. the report also calls for the establishment of a defence council, an idea that i know has been around for some time. the next meeting in april will follow established practice but at the informal defence ministers’ meeting a consensus emerged based on my proposals to hold foreign affairs councils in ministry of defence formation. that would enable defence ministers to come together and take decisions, for instance on capabilities development. my last point on that relates to the suggestion of a civil protection force. let us start with the haiti lessons learned exercise which is now underway. then let us apply the spirit of lisbon and see what options we have to mobilise assets of member states together with eu instruments to support either the un, ocha or to act as the eu itself. the watchwords ought to be maximising synergies and avoiding ‘hard’ or artificial splits between how we handle eu internal and external crises. let me, finally, turn to the question of non-proliferation, given the oral question that has been raised. i want to mention briefly the two most significant items: first, the non-proliferation treaty review conference scheduled for may in new york. i will be participating with the aim of ensuring that we do get a successful outcome. we should make no mistake: the entire treaty-based non-proliferation system with the npt as a cornerstone is under growing pressure. to respond we need to be ready to make our contribution: on access to the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, in particular for developing countries, while avoiding proliferation risks, and that includes work on the multilateral nuclear fuel cycle approaches – i think 84 countries have benefited from eu assistance programmes; with progress on nuclear disarmament – politically, this is fundamental to create a constructive atmosphere; and by addressing regional proliferation crises, in particular with iran, which has the potential to derail the conference. as you know, the eu is leading the efforts to find diplomatic solutions. we fully support the security council process on further restrictive measures if – as is certainly the case today – iran continues to ignore its obligations. secondly, there is president obama’s nuclear security summit. we share the goal of the summit, namely to strengthen the security of nuclear materials and prevent terrorists from getting access. i think that the eu has been providing support to the iaea since 2004 to assist countries in this area and we will continue to do so. finally, let me come back to where i started. the demand for european global engagement is enormous. we have to ensure that supply matches demand. the lisbon treaty gives us that chance. we should act in line with the letter and the spirit of the treaty, remembering why european leaders negotiated the treaty in the first place. i think the reason was clear: to build a stronger, more assertive and self-confident european foreign policy at the service of the citizens of the european union. i know many in this house share that goal, and i count on your support to make sure it happens.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. − mr president, i want to congratulate mrs ashton on her encouraging statement. at the same time, as the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets on the cfsp, i want also to underline that it is of core importance that she initiate an audit of past and present cfsp operations and csdp civil missions in order to identify their strengths and weaknesses. this way the european union will be more effective in providing security, will increase its autonomy and will most notably make wiser use of the relevant budget, which regrettably continues to be underfunded.
the report of the foreign affairs committee on the council's annual report was prepared in the spirit of cooperation and dialogue, which is our approach to all strategic issues. an important part of the report is devoted to the consequences of the lisbon treaty. in this connection, i would like to draw attention to an important aspect of our joint work. the success of the common foreign policy and the real results of institutional innovation are becoming a major factor in determining how european citizens will view the european union's ability to protect their interests, to change and to develop. justified or not, expectations of a sharp increase in the european union's role on the world stage are high and we have no right to disappoint the european citizens. unfortunately, in recent weeks the european press has rightly portrayed foreign policy in a highly negative light: as a race between member states for positions in the new external action service, as a competition between institutions whose hat will baroness ashton wear more often - that of the commission or the council, as an unequal struggle of the european parliament to gain more influence. you understand that this is bad for us internally, but it's especially bad as a message to our external partners. our separation makes us weak in their eyes. that's why i'm taking the liberty of making an appeal in this debate. all of us who are concerned with the construction and development of the common foreign and security policy should concentrate on the important strategic issues and try to show real results as soon as possible through more dialogue and constructivism. we owe it to european citizens to feel that they are part of a union whose voice is heard and weighs in global politics.
i believe that the reports by mr danjean and mr albertini are a step towards our much needed common vision of the european union as a strong global actor in peace and security, for which i congratulate them. with defence budgets shrinking and the current economic crisis, it is abundantly clear that if we want europe to speak with a unified voice in the world, with strong and respectful messages, we need to use the means at our disposal more wisely and more effectively. the role of the european defence agency, which was strengthened by the treaty of lisbon, is crucial to optimising our capabilities through collective procurement, pooling of resources and joint training. the interaction between the civilian and military aspects of the common foreign and security policy must be used to enhance the capacity and effectiveness of our union. i look forward to seeing the active role of the head of the european defence agency, high representative mrs ashton, in this regard. finally, mrs ashton, i wish you success in setting up the joint external action service and i expect the principle of geographical balance to be respected in the appointment of the staff of the service so that it can really represent the union as a whole. europe needs your success.
mr president, mr šefčovič, mr lópez garrido, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens' initiative is a further step towards building a genuine european civil society. it is a new opportunity for european citizens to have a greater say in the decision-making process. i hope that its implementation will help to strengthen the feeling of belonging to a single entity, our europe, because this feeling of belonging to europe is unfortunately very weak and is too often lacking. apart from the technical, administrative and practical aspects of the practical implementation of the initiative, it seems to me that our message must be above all political. we must not lose sight of the underlying principle behind this initiative: to bring citizens closer to the institutions, to stimulate their interest in europe, to encourage their participation and to make them actors in community policies. we must keep this constantly in mind. whether it is the minimum number of member states from which signatures originate, the collection, verification and control of signatures or the admissibility of initiatives, we must ensure that citizens are not prevented from submitting an initiative. as an example, however, i would like to point out that the costs of notarial certification must be reasonable. some member states, which already have such initiatives at national level, sometimes apply excessive charges. these are the kinds of obstacles to citizens' initiative that we must avoid. finally, we must not lose sight of the increased role of our parliament. as the depository of the democratic will of the european citizens and the guarantor of budgetary transparency, it is necessary that its participation in the process of implementing the initiative be increased. only then will we make the union's soul supplement a genuine democratic heart.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr scotta on his report, which is a clear signal of the will and determination of the european parliament to be a strong player in the forthcoming debate on the future of the cap. i welcome the proposal to create a logo that clearly shows that a product is produced and processed only in europe. i think this will be another sign of support and a kind of guarantee for the high quality of our products. the application of a system of protected designations of origin and geographical indications is, in my view, necessary. it is the way in which we preserve the identity of the regions and their appearance, and give people the confidence that their products are recognised and valued in the market. i therefore believe that we should keep the tool of 'food with a traditionally specific character' and i see it as a good example of our diversity in unity. it's not a bad thing to know that we're eating feta from greece, white salami from bulgaria, or mozzarella from italy. food quality and safety is one of the major challenges we have to face in the future. let us preserve the quality of our products and their competitiveness, and let us guarantee a decent income and a decent life for our producers and farmers. thank you for your attention.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, one of our main tasks as politicians and citizens today is to preserve our european cultural heritage for future generations. the europeana project is one of the leaders in this field and it helps to accelerate the processes of digitisation of cultural heritage in the individual member states. however, cultural and legal challenges related to the mass digitisation of books, including those from european library collections, remain to be overcome. copyright and its regulation in the member states is one of the most important challenges facing europeana. competition with google also brings to the forefront many issues that will need to be addressed. in this context, all possible means should be found to support national libraries, museums and archives so that the europeana project can become a true mirror of the richness and diversity of europe's cultural heritage. during the debate in the committee on culture, i proposed that the european parliament should have some control over the project, but i realise that under the current rules this is not possible. however, i hope that the european parliament, as the only eu institution whose members are directly elected, will one day be able to exercise control over european affairs. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam ashton, colleagues, i would like to begin by expressing my admiration for the enormous contribution made by mr salafranca to the development of relations between the european union and latin america and for his outstanding role in this report. the strategic partnership between the european union and latin america for the period up to 2015 will develop in the context of agenda 2020, the global agreement to combat climate change in the making and our aspirations to build a green and environmentally friendly economy. i would therefore like to stress that latin america is a strategic partner where europe must further expand its economic and cultural influence. especially in the context of the global financial crisis, this partnership can be a priority and open up greater opportunities for trade, science and technology exchanges, through which we can emerge stronger and more stable from this crisis.
mr commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate mr kirillov on his report. i welcome and support any step that ensures and facilitates the legitimate use of european solidarity funds. the european union cannot afford to be likened by its citizens to a volcano, spewing bureaucratic ash, which is sprinkled with the desire to reduce the disparities between europe's regions. it is difficult, if not impossible, to use the structural funds with which we want to achieve our economic, social and political objectives. in my view, the changes towards simplification of procedures should not only be seen in the light of the current crisis, but also facilitate access to the european union's solidarity instruments in the long term. i believe that despite the delay, the proposal made by the european commission, as well as the amendments made in this report, will present a better opportunity for member states and final beneficiaries to improve their situation in the current crisis. i would like to stress the importance of the amendment concerning the deferred expenditure of the appropriations for 2007. this amendment will give a second opportunity to all member states, including bulgaria, where the absorption of funds is still very low, to implement projects with funds that would otherwise be lost. we need to reach out to regional and local authorities, to all other stakeholders, and urge them to take this second chance. i believe that the flexibility that the report shows, taking into account the implementation of the programmes for the absorption of funds, is the right approach in shaping privatisation policy in the future. as regards the simplification of the administrative rules for the use of the structural funds, the report is a step in the right direction towards finding a balance between making it as easy as possible for the european funds to coordinate projects and controlling the use of these funds. the reform of the rules should be an instrument to ensure greater transparency for european citizens and taxpayers and to help set enforceable conditions for member states. the final objective, which is to achieve comparable conditions for social and economic life throughout the european union, must be kept in mind throughout the process.
mr commissioner, mr secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, i will be taking a position on the discharge to the european agencies. let me first of all express my apologies to my colleague mr georgios stavrakakis, who was unable to come to the debate on this matter, although he worked as a shadow rapporteur for the socialist group in the last months of it. he can't come, due to all the well-known transportation problems. for the socialists and democrats, the issues of the transparent and lawful use of the eu budget are a priority and the management of public finances as a whole depends to a large extent on their successful solution. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, mrs mathieu, as well as the members of the european court of auditors and the heads of the agencies with whom we have worked very closely. i would like to point out that the audit of budgetary agencies is an extremely complex and burdensome procedure, as they differ considerably in their practices and competence. let me start with the general finding that 2008 has proven that agencies are performing better and better each year. i will open a bracket and tell some colleagues who are not expecting any comments from the court of auditors to support the budget that when the court of auditors stops giving comments, then confidence in it will fall. the fact is that they reduce errors and increase transparency and discipline in budget implementation. this progress is also being taken into account by the european court of auditors, and the management of the agencies is making increasing efforts to improve accounting and control systems. of course, there are disadvantages. they have been noted by both parliament and the court of auditors. these shortcomings are both objective and subjective. the good news is that they can all be overcome, and that's what we're working towards. the main problem arose with the european police college (epco). the problems have been going on for several years and are due to a variety of reasons: the change in the accounting system, unresolved issues in relations with the host country, shortcomings in the procurement process and the misuse of public funds. although concessions have been made for several years, yielding some result that is much slower than expected, i am in favour this year of postponing the discharge for the implementation of the agency's 2008 budget until a new audit has been drawn up and the new management of the college has taken clear responsibility, although irregularities and legal irregularities will be corrected as soon as possible. the second problem was related to frontex and in particular to the agency's capacity to absorb the funds allocated to it. the agency's management gave satisfactory answers to this question at the commission's hearings. what needs to be done in the future in the area of budgetary control in the agencies is a few things. i'll narrow it down to three. first, continued efforts to strengthen the management's adherence to budgetary discipline. secondly, to take measures to simplify accounting rules, especially for agencies that are co-financed and self-financed. finally, let us consider a proposal made by the court of auditors to introduce criteria for the success of these agencies in carrying out their tasks.
mr president, mr lópez garrido, mrs malmström, i would like to congratulate the authors of the motion for a resolution on the conclusion of the us-eu agreement on the exchange of financial data for the purpose of combating terrorism. this resolution takes up, in a balanced way, both the security requirements and the guarantees of data protection and respect for the fundamental rights of european citizens. as such, the designation of a european public authority of a judicial nature, which would be responsible for receiving requests from the us treasury department, seems to me to be the key to the balanced approach we are seeking. this will help to resolve many of the deadlocks in the principles of necessity and proportionality which have arisen, particularly in the case of bulk data transfers. this would also allow for the establishment of genuine reciprocity, i.e. it would make it possible for the european authorities and the competent authorities of the member states to obtain financial data stored on the territory of the united states. it's our credibility that's at stake here. the swift agreement is a kind of democratic test which we must all pass for the good of our fellow citizens.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the use of cyanide in the mining industry is clearly a matter that leaves no one indifferent. we are aware of the legal measures taken by the european union. they have a clear message to continue to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment through appropriate means, structures, control mechanisms and management systems. continuing to activate public opinion in europe is part of our mission. but when that happens by playing on people's fears and using the environmental map to protect other types of interests, the dignity of the position disappears. according to a report by sre consulting, the majority of cyanides currently used on an industrial scale are used for the purposes of the chemical industry and metal surface treatment. this means that even if we ban them for use in gold mining, they will continue to be used for other purposes and our ban will not lead to a significant reduction in their use overall. i fully support the mandatory need for environmental impact assessment and the exercise of prior and ex post controls by both operators and control authorities in our countries. at the moment in my homeland, bulgaria, there is no explicit ban on the use of cyanide in gold mining. in this case, the use of other technologies, even in times of crisis, has not been proven to be more effective. this does not mean compromising, but listening to reason and not going to extremes. because the path from one group of deniers to the group of people with a different view is through you - that's a bridge that, i urge you, we should not burn.
i must engage your attention with a national problem. bulgaria is ruled by an incompetent but populist government that uses methods typical of the 1930s. it is significant that the most popular politician at the moment is the minister of the interior, followed by the former chief secretary of the ministry, now prime minister. after the elections, hundreds of opposition representatives were dismissed for political reasons. the mainstream media is under pressure. arresting politicians in a brutal and showy manner or raising absurd charges. prosecutors publicly trample on the presumption of innocence, ministers pressure the courts and hand out sentences from the screen. a new law allows sentencing to be based only on wiretapping and the testimony of an anonymous witness. an extraordinary tribunal is being set up, officially called the specialised court. it's a fear. for years, bulgaria has been calling for more efforts to combat crime. today, the effort is there, but the fight against crime is turning into a fight against democracy. the european parliament is sensitive to the trampling on of democracy, freedom and human rights around the world. it should be so when it happens in member states.
thank you, mr chairman. i take the floor to denounce an injustice. my fellow citizens, let us not deceive ourselves that ordinary greeks are not to blame for what happened in greece. what happened, and the financial crisis there, is because of the 14th, 15th, 16th salaries and pensions and benefits that don't exist anywhere else in the european union, they're unknown. for 10 years, greece has lied to the european central bank about its state. and now, at this moment, for this, for these lies and this deception, the european leaders voted to reward greece with 110 billion. at the same time, financial superstars like bulgaria, like estonia, will be punished for what happened, this crisis, and their entry into the eurozone will most likely be postponed. this is a double standard that is not worthy of either the euro area or the european union. it is only right that those responsible be punished and that the leaders of the eurozone invite greece to leave the eurozone.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am very pleased to see that parliament continues to be enthusiastic and supportive of the commission’s work in the field of cancer prevention and control. i am grateful for the efforts that have been made in preparing this report, in particular by the rapporteur, mr peterle. strong action at european level can have an important knock-on effect at national, regional and local level. this underlines the potential of the european partnership for action against cancer. the success of the partnership largely depends on the active participation of its numerous and diverse partners. so far, member states, health professionals, cancer institutions, ngos, patient organisations and industry representatives have taken part in the preparation of concrete proposals for action to be carried out by the end of 2013. it remains to be seen, however, whether this new means of cooperation will result in more sustainable action to tackle cancer. i sincerely hope that it will. the broad aim is to achieve more long-term goals and to make better use of available resources. this depends on the commitment of all partners and of course on adequate financial input. parliament’s support for the necessary resources to be secured in the future community budget for health will be crucial. the report refers to a range of actions for a comprehensive approach towards cancer prevention and control, many of which have already been taken into account in the development of the partnership, based on the commission’s communication. the partnership has five main pillars: health promotion and prevention, including promotion of the european code against cancer; screening and early diagnosis aiming at improved implementation of the council recommendation on cancer screening; exchange of best practices in cancer care; cooperation and coordination in cancer research; and making available comparative information and data on cancer. a key task of the partnership will be to help member states improve the development and implementation of their cancer plans. by the end of the partnership, the objective is for all member states to have integrated cancer plans. some actions will build on the result of the good work done so far. other actions will require additional help. the commission stands ready to provide all the necessary support. in addition, the commission will continue its close collaboration with the international agency for research on cancer as regards its contribution to the partnership. i should also mention the overarching objective of seeking to ensure better integration of health concerns into all our policy initiatives, which i shall take forward with relevant colleagues within the commission. of course we will continue our strong focus on prevention through our policies on health determinants as part of the fight against cancer. we will try to achieve the maximum possible with the limited resources available and i welcome vey much the strong support of the european parliament for these efforts.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all let me give my congratulations to mr peterle for his great work on this report, making sure that the fight against cancer remains a top priority on our public health agenda. there is no need to repeat the figures; we all know what the public-health, social and economic costs for the union will be if we do not address this issue consistently and make the appropriate resources available, especially in order to overcome the disparities between the member states. the burden of cancer is a threat for the sustainability of our public health systems, and the eu should definitely take the lead in responding to it adequately. whether we speak about prevention, diagnosis, treatment, research or information, of course we speak about partnership, but we will manage to combat effectively the burden of cancer in europe only if we make sure that all stakeholders – and particularly patients’ groups – are involved in the long run, if we ensure an efficient exchange of good practices between member states and if we guarantee that the functioning of such a partnership will be closely monitored and supported. i hope that the commission will play its role and make sure the partnership delivers its objectives. i would like to stress one particular point: the call on the commission to use the existing ecdc and to add non-communicable diseases to its mandate. i believe this could definitely strengthen the expertise and recommendations. finally, the issue of timely and equal access to prevention, diagnosis and care should be closely looked at if we want to ensure that the fight against cancer also contributes to the objective that we should all keep in mind the reduction of health inequalities in europe. commissioner, i look forward to seeing you tomorrow at patients’ rights day, because this is extremely important for all patients’ groups, and your commitment matters to all of us.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, democracy requires that the bodies that are called upon to look after civil rights be independent of state and party power. the requirements in the union directives for regulatory authorities are the same in terms of full independence and strong powers, impartiality and transparency. unfortunately, in bulgaria, the established achievements of our democratic system are being changed, such as a mandate of more than 5 years, the possibility of re-election, a rotation mechanism for changing the composition - all measures that guarantee independence. the change is made without analysis, without perspective, with a departure from good european practice. cost-cutting is the only argument for crippling the bodies that fight discrimination, that regulate the media, that protect competition. there is already a trend towards action targeting financial and audit institutions. i am alerting the european parliament and the european commission, hoping that this will act as a deterrent to such intentions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, volcanic ash in the air over europe has delayed the life of the european institutions and, in particular, has disrupted the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg, as almost 50% of the members were unable to travel. strasbourg is by definition a difficult destination, and in an emergency it is simply impossible. and i would like to ask you on this occasion: is this not yet another signal for the european parliament to decide that there should be only one seat, and that seat should be in brussels? i think you'll all agree that in a financial crisis, establishing a single seat for parliament would save taxpayers millions of euros and the travelling circus, as we're often called, moving once a month, would be a thing of the past.
mr president, i would like to take note of the statements made by some colleagues from the socialist group and the liberal group who have made unfounded attacks on the bulgarian government. for the first time since the beginning of the transition, bulgaria has shown political will not only in words but also in deeds to fight corruption and organised crime. the concrete results achieved in this regard are confirmed by both bulgaria's international partners and civil society in the country. the support for the prime minister and the minister of the interior is 56 and 60 percent respectively. but the question remains why bulgaria has been so far behind the european union in terms of living standards. the answer must be sought in the self-serving intentions of the communist nomenclature of the late 1980s, which succeeded during the 20-year transition, using the repressive apparatus of state security and its touch in the then state economy, to convert its political power into economic and hand it over to its sons and grandchildren, keeping its agents in key ministries, banks and industry in the country. the current government is fighting against the unregulated link between politics and economics with all the legal means permitted in a european rule of law. i would just like to make one final appeal to my colleagues in the socialist group to draw on the experience of their german colleagues in dealing with the successors of the former communist party in the gdr. the bsp is the direct successor of the communist party in bulgaria like the left in germany. the difficulties in forming a government in north rhine-westphalia show how urgent the problem is in europe today.
mr. chairman, on thursday night, may 14th, in the town of kardzhali in southern bulgaria, i was handed 54,000 signatures collected by citizens who want normal working conditions and strong local government. this subscription was collected from the seven municipalities of karnali in just 10 days. people support the fight against corruption at all levels of government, but they are against the use of force and against the spectacular actions by which the executive power usurps the functions of the court and the prosecutor's office, undermining the authority of local authorities and repressing them. the mayor of kardzhali alone, for example, was audited 138 times in the last year, 13 times on a single project. in the 30 municipalities with dps mayors, there were over 700 inspections in less than a year, and in the municipalities with gerb mayors, such inspections were spared. moreover, the district manager of karjali didn't even allow the signing ceremony to take place in the administration building and we were forced to meet in public. i have committed to informing the european institutions of this civil protest.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mrs lulling for the endless hours she spent to reach a good compromise and a good agreement with the council. despite the different views on the key points of the directive and given that it is now being considered at second reading, i can confidently say that the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe supports the compromise solution reached so that this legislation can be introduced as quickly as possible by the member states. by updating this legislation, we will ensure equal treatment between men and women, paying particular attention to the issue of social protection, especially for the protection of self-employed women. with this new legislative framework, we will ensure equal protection in both cases, both for self-employed women and when they are only the spouses and partners of self-employed workers. with this amendment to the directive, member states will provide standard social security rights including 14 weeks of paid maternity leave for self-employed women and for the spouses or partners in a family of self-employed persons. the amendment to the directive is a sufficiently modern and constructive solution to enable self-employed women and the spouses or partners in a family of self-employed persons to enjoy the same social security rights as employees. the spouses and partners are not employees, but it must be borne in mind that they usually help the self-employed worker - a practice that is widespread in my country in agriculture, small businesses and the professions. with this updating of legislation, member states will be able to decide and enable self-employed women as well as assisting spouses of self-employed persons to join a social security scheme voluntarily or compulsorily. it should guarantee equal social protection and rights for women when they are engaged in family business and, alongside the risks of the market, production and the financial crisis, should provide for an optimal regime for their own social and health care. only in this way will a real improvement be achieved, both for self-employed women and wives and for women partners on a family basis, especially in terms of their social and property protection, independent of that of the husband and partner. i consider this comprehensive legislative text to be a small step, but one of the utmost importance for equal treatment between men and women. it is a pathway to the strategic goal of gender equality and to the programme we have recently updated beijing +15. by taking this small but important step, i believe we will move forward towards better reproductive health programmes, towards a common european health and social care market, towards the protection of motherhood and the quality of our lives, regardless of geographical, socio-cultural and ethnic differences. this direction leads to our liberal priority, to a useful reconciliation of professional and family life and this is the solid foundation of harmony towards the sharing of equality and responsibility between the sexes
dear mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all congratulate the rapporteurs, mrs trüpel and mr maňka, on their excellent work in preparing the solutions we are discussing today. we must admit that this was no easy task and today's discussion proves it. on the one hand, we must set an example of economy and efficiency in spending the money of european taxpayers, and on the other hand, we must enable parliament to fulfil all its obligations and responsibilities which those same taxpayers have assigned to it by the treaty of lisbon. the fact is that the new treaty on european union places the greatest number of changes and new obligations on our institution. one of the most serious issues that has generated much debate has been the extent to which the european parliament has taken account of the difficult economic situation in europe and shown leadership in reducing costs and increasing their efficiency. the parliamentary decisions we are discussing today are in line with the economic situation. with a minimum increase in expenditure of 5.5 percent, we are enabling the european parliament to be enlarged by 18 new members, we are requiring the administration to provide expert support for the vastly increased areas where the european parliament's decisions are decisive. we are enabling members of parliament to have more contact with their constituents, to provide expertise in more areas and to fulfil the new responsibilities that the treaty of lisbon has given them. we are setting an example of economy by accommodating all new functions within a margin of just 0.28% of the agreement reached many years ago that expenditure in the european parliament should not exceed 20% of the administrative expenditure of the european budget. at the same time, we must make it very clear that the old agreement must be renegotiated in the future, reflecting the substantially changed functions of the institutions and in particular the increased role and, accordingly, the expectations of the european parliament. fellas, there are still reserves. in future, we must increase our efforts to make parliament's work more efficient, by focusing not on buildings but on new technologies, by setting an example of institutional and environmental standards, by carefully analysing the effect of each expenditure and not allowing the usual bureaucracy of each budget to automatically grow. we must not forget that with every action we take we are responsible to our constituents who are living hard today.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, we are discussing a subject which in itself directly affects a limited number of people compared to other important health problems in the european union. on the other hand, it is of increased interest for two main reasons. first, because transplants are considered the crowning achievement of modern medicine, and second, because virtually every citizen is a potential donor, this raises many questions of a different nature. at the same time, i want to emphasize that human life is priceless and every effort that can save such a life must be made. statistics show that the situation varies widely from one member state to another. there are countries where good organization is established along the chain, there are other countries where health systems are experiencing enormous difficulties and transplants are more in the "medical exotic" column. there, those in need are forced to resort to transplant tourism with a clear awareness of the high risk, the violation of law and ethics, because their lives are often saved at the cost of another life forcibly taken or destroyed. it is important to avoid the commercialisation of donation and to ensure that organ donation from living donors is completely free of charge, while of course ensuring all necessary care and compensation for lost income. it is of particular importance that a clear system of tracing organs within the european union is established, including after transplantation. i believe that the proposed directive will improve access to transplant organs for european citizens in need, increase trust in the donation system and encourage the exchange of good practice to be applied at a supranational level.
mr. chairman, i want to say that i supported the reports on organ transplantation, the action plan, and the report on organ quality and safety. but i would say that there are great differences between member states in this respect and i hope that this action plan and the report on quality and safety will help member states to harmonise their criteria and be used as a precedent for the future. i say this because my country, bulgaria, is the country with 35 times fewer donors than spain, and the problems are related to the whole chain, from information to citizens, to the transplantation itself and post-transplantation treatment. there's no donor database network, there's not enough equipment, there's not a reliable database of donors. bulgaria is not a member of eurotransplant, and there is no provision for post-transplant treatment, no built-in dispensaries for hospitals that perform transplants. i therefore hope that this report and the decisions of parliament will be an incentive for this directive to be implemented as soon as possible.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say a few words on behalf of the commission, on behalf of president barroso, on the 2020 strategy and to echo the very interesting reports by mr grech and mr hoang ngoc. then my colleagues and friends, hahn and andor, will take turns speaking in this debate in which we are taking part on the other oral questions which concern other sectors: cohesion, employment, the social dimension, research and development. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs and parliament on behalf of all three of us for this initiative, which comes at a very difficult and demanding time for us all, that of an economic crisis, with the recent difficulties of the euro, which clearly highlights the interdependence between all our member states and the need to coordinate the economic policies of our countries. it is time to react and act, and as much as possible together, in a context of uncertainty and crisis. the decisions taken in the last few days have been - we believe - very important. i shall not go back to the long debate which took place this morning with my colleague olli rehn. it is clear that we must put in place the instruments for a stronger coordination of our economic policies and we believe that this europe 2020 strategy is probably the first instrument for a new, stronger and more coordinated economic policy. in its proposal for this strategy, the commission had already stressed the need to clean up our public finances at the beginning of march. the euro crisis we have just experienced shows how relevant this position is. i have taken note, as has my colleague olli rehn, of the proposals in mr hoang ngoc's report on these matters. and then, ladies and gentlemen, a second prerequisite for success in 2020 is to get our economy, our economies back on a sound or healthy footing. i am thinking, of course, of the need to supervise and regulate the financial market so that it serves the real economy and not the other way around. the commission, on these subjects, i promise you, will keep to its road map. within a year, we will have put on the table all the legislative proposals needed to implement the commitments made together at the g20 around four main pillars: transparency, accountability, supervision and crisis prevention. i hope that parliament and the council will soon be able to overcome their differences on texts under discussion. i am thinking of the financial supervision package and the alternative funds dossier. we need to restore trust. we must also do everything we can to unlock the growth potential of our economy. this work naturally has many aspects. the debate this afternoon shows that: the revival of the internal market, territorial policy for all regions, including the most remote ones such as the outermost regions, cohesion, economic governance, the sustainability of public finances, employment, education and research. when we talk about europe 2020, what are we talking about? i believe that this 2020 strategy should enable us to put the economic policies of our member states in a better perspective in order to avoid certain imbalances and even competition in the future. these imbalances have been well felt in the current crisis. but while responding to the urgency of this crisis, we must prepare the economy for the medium and long term. that is why, on the basis of the commission's proposals, the european council adopted five common objectives: an employment rate of 75%, 3% of gdp invested in research and development, but also the limitation of school drop-out, increasing to 40% the number of people with a university degree, as well as the 2020-2020 objectives on energy, climate change. and finally, the promotion of social inclusion through the fight against poverty. at the june european council, it will be necessary to set quantitative indicators for education and social inclusion. this work is in progress in various council configurations on these two objectives. it is very important to understand that strategy 2020 is not just a vision. it is above all a concrete programme of reforms to be implemented and that is why we are proposing seven flagship initiatives under this strategy. beyond these flagship initiatives, european instruments, notably the single market, financial levers and foreign policy instruments, will also be mobilised to remove certain obstacles. i would also like to welcome the report by mario monti presented a few days ago, and i would also like to pay tribute to the intelligent work of louis grech, who has given the internal market a humanistic and more concrete dimension, as i myself would like. there are also requirements in terms of implementation. therefore, more effective governance mechanisms have been proposed, which involve member states at all levels, but also the commission for monitoring. europe 2020 also means adopting reforms to be implemented within the member states themselves. they will have to submit national reform programmes by the end of the year, in a coordinated manner, with a stability and convergence programme, while respecting the stability and growth pact. mr hoang ngoc, i would like to point out that this pact has been supported for the last ten years by governments of both the left and the right. finally, the commission calls on the european parliament to play its part even more fully in this new strategy, as it is doing so well. in times of crisis, we want to send clear messages to the member states. this is the aim of the integrated guidelines proposed by the commission. these will not be adopted until you have given your opinion. but given the urgency, we need to put this strategy in place. we must aim for a political agreement at the european council in june. let us be clear, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, in the rest of the world, medium-term socioeconomic strategies are already being put in place. europe cannot remain in the shadows. in conclusion, the european parliament is playing its part, and we thank it for this, in mobilising citizens, particularly through national parliaments. i was very impressed by the initiative taken by the committee on the internal market and its chairman, malcolm harbour, on the services directive, which brought together national parliaments and the european parliament. there are other examples and this is a very important commitment. in conclusion, i would like to confirm that the commission will play its part, as you wish, in a voluntary way, to implement this strategy and build with you the new growth that citizens expect, which is of a higher quality, more sustainable and fairer.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on budgets. - mr president, commissioners, if we had discussed the europe 2020 strategy without the economic crisis, everything would have been fine. the problem is that in these conditions of crisis and after what has happened, the europe 2020 strategy is not ambitious enough and not active enough. the problem that all the questions that have been asked in the last few weeks are about is whether the coordination that has been happening in european policies so far is sufficient to move the european union forward, and we see that this coordination in conditions of growth is good, but in conditions of crisis it does not meet the requirements, or is it necessary to transfer many more functions, not just coordination, but decision-making at the european level, so that europe sets itself much more ambitious tasks and has much more leadership in it. this is the fundamental question, and until we answer it, we will not be able to draw up the 2020 agenda properly. i think that's what we should be focusing on in the next few weeks.
mr president, european cohesion policy has proved its essential role over the years and has become a key element for the community. for european citizens, it is the visible and quantifiable expression of solidarity. it is also recognised by its inclusion in the objectives of the treaty of lisbon. all this gives it its rightful place in the europe 2020 strategy. the draft strategy did not give the necessary space to this policy, so i highly appreciate the report on the contribution of the cohesion policy to the lisbon objectives and the strategy 2020, which provides valuable guidance. we need a strong cohesion policy today, when the economic crisis is reducing jobs and weakening competitiveness, and in the future, to establish the european union as a strong global player. there is a need for reliable metrics to show the effectiveness and efficiency of the funds invested in this policy. as the report states, the impact of cohesion policy expenditure on regional development must be assessed on the basis of specific indicators. in order to develop evaluation indicators, the commission should consider and propose a clear definition of the concept of 'territorial convergence', because it is this concept that appears in the lisbon treaty. objective and precise evaluation criteria can only be derived after a consideration of the concept itself. it will give concrete policy for both institutions and citizens.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the third evening of this plenary week will again be marked by an energy issue on your agenda: the renewal of eu financial support for the decommissioning of the kozloduy power plant in bulgaria. a sensitive issue, an important issue. i am all the more grateful for the constructive working atmosphere. the subject was discussed in a very substantive way with mrs harms, the rapporteur, and the shadow rapporteurs and committees involved. i am also pleased that the commission's report largely follows and supports our proposal. i would first like to mention your support for the implementation of the additional funding of eur 300 million from the european budget in line with the eu's interests and thus contributing to the maintenance of nuclear safety. secondly, i would like to emphasize that the focus should be on further assistance for decommissioning and that the amount of eur 180 million needed for this is appropriate. and thirdly, i would add that, because of the historical lack of financial resources in the republic of bulgaria, european funds help to ensure a high level of safety during the demolition works, in order to protect people and the environment. as regards the amendments which are before us, i would like to stress that the commission can accept most of the proposed amendments. i'm afraid i can't go into all of them for time reasons. i would like to make public the commission's position on two subjects which are very important to us, two subjects which have been dealt with directly in the report by amendments and in mrs harms's explanatory statement. i am speaking first of all of the continuation of financial support for measures in the energy sector. in addition to the express wish of the bulgarian government, several arguments justify accepting the need for further financial support for energy sector measures. this includes equal treatment with lithuania and the slovak republic, where we are supporting measures until 2013, and further measures to create replacement capacity, including further investment in energy efficiency measures. the existing coal-fired power stations in bulgaria have enormous potential for energy savings. the focus of electricity generation capacity in bulgaria has changed with the decommissioning of nuclear reactors. this poses significant challenges for the bulgarian transmission system, which can be addressed with further assistance to stabilise and secure the electricity grid. the commission therefore considers it appropriate to continue to guarantee support for measures in the energy sector, including measures for network infrastructure. the second point i would like to make is to support the development of a geological repository for spent fuel. the commission supports the rapporteur's view of the need to develop a solution for the safe disposal of spent fuel. however, the development of such a necessary solution cannot be considered in the context of financial assistance under the kozloduy programme for the following reasons: it would distort competition, since the development of such a solution is an obligation for all member states with a nuclear energy programme. although the final disposal of spent fuel elements is part of nuclear waste management, it goes beyond the scope of decommissioning and is not relevant to it. the need for safe interim storage of spent fuel is already covered by the current financial support. the development of a final repository, which we consider to be consistent, is not, however, a consequence of the closure and decommissioning of the four units of kozloduy. i would like to stress that the commission is taking the issue of final disposal seriously, as has just been mentioned, and will be presenting a proposal on the management of radioactive waste later this year, which will include the development of safe final disposal sites for spent fuel. i am counting on your constructive contributions. i too look forward to the exciting debate. let me sum up today as follows: the commission welcomes the agreement of parliament with the commission to provide eur 300 million in support for bulgaria over the next four years. we welcome the continued focus on support for the continuation of safe deconstruction and we welcome the fact that projects in the energy sector are also eligible for support. i see the approval of the refinancing and its implementation as a sign of the european union's solidarity with bulgaria and as an important contribution to nuclear safety in europe and beyond. thank you for your attention.
rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur on the committee on the environment, i would like to express my support for the european commission's approach to this proposal and for the report as voted in committee. i am very pleased to see that the line i defended in my draft report is presented in the final text and that the european parliament can now give a clear signal for the extension of community financial assistance in respect of the decommissioning of units 1 to 4 of the kozloduy npp. bulgaria has demonstrated good faith in the use of decommissioning assets up to 2009 and the extension of the community assistance is necessary to ensure the safe and timely completion of decommissioning activities carried out with the highest level of transparency and environmental protection. the extension of the financial assistance for the mitigation measures for the premature decommissioning of the four reactors is of particular importance, taking into account the impact and consequences on the environment, energy prices for consumers and the security of energy supply in the region. there have been some attempts to press this dossier for political and ideological reasons, but we must bear in mind what the ultimate goals of this programme are - namely to ensure safe decommissioning and fair compensation for bulgaria, to support the efforts made towards a more sustainable energy policy and to provide transparency in the management of projects and funds. i would like to say to mrs harms that the issue of the final disposal of radioactive waste is a very serious one and needs to be given special attention, but it is not a question that bulgaria alone will face. it is a common challenge, which is why we need a specifically designed european strategy and programme, and also, mrs harms, i would like to assure you that bulgaria has no intention of using these funds to further develop lignite-fired power stations. you can rest assured that we intend to comply with all our requirements and to be fully in line with european legislation and with european advanced technology. bulgaria is a very responsible country and will try to always be a good and fair partner.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, during the accession negotiations with the european union, under pressure from certain political forces, bulgaria agreed to close four of its nuclear units at the kozloduy nuclear power plant and to fulfil this commitment within the time limits set. for its part, the european union provided financial assistance, limited to the period 2007-2009, in the accession treaty to support decommissioning and to deal with the consequences of the premature closure of the blocks. the european union also provided political assurances for the continuation of community support for the period 2010-2013. this would achieve, at least in terms of financial support, equal treatment of our country with lithuania and slovakia, which are also committed to the early termination of nuclear power. the european commission therefore, following the explicit insistence of the country, and in accordance with the principles of solidarity and equal treatment of the member states, has come up with this proposal. the amount of the additional funding cannot in any way compensate for the billions lost to the country from the premature closure of the blocks. at the same time, this aid is essential for the further decommissioning process, for which the bulk of the amount is planned to be used. the commission has also proposed to increase the number of projects in the energy sector by increasing the number of projects in the energy sector. the report, which was voted by a large majority in the itre committee, fully meets these needs. we therefore find it unacceptable that attempts are being made to introduce new amendments in the chamber to push through texts against coal-fired power stations or to resolve the question of the direct burial of spent nuclear fuel. the debate on this issue is still ongoing in the european union. on this basis, i propose that we support the itre proposal and reject the new five amendments of the greens.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank the commission for its extremely competent work and commissioner oettinger personally for the document he is proposing. i also thank the rapporteur, mrs harms, for the efforts she has made in discussing this document to raise issues of the utmost importance to european citizens. the main objective of the document is to support bulgaria's efforts to decommission 4 of the 6 units of its nuclear power plant. i will not comment on the reasons for this decision, but once it has been included in the accession treaty, this obligation must be fulfilled by the bulgarian authorities. and they do whatever is necessary in that regard. at the same time, the closure of such a huge facility before the deadline foreseen in the economic calculations implies a huge direct and indirect cost. part of this cost is compensated by the european union. with this decision proposed today, the european union is aligning its approach to bulgaria with that applied to two other countries - new members of the european union who have made and are fulfilling the same commitments. it is very important to follow the same approach, because it is our duty to preserve the coherence of european policy. 60% of the funds allocated will be used directly for decommissioning the facilities of the kozloduy nuclear power plant and the remaining 40% for improving energy efficiency and reducing carbon dioxide emissions in bulgaria. i would like to draw particular attention to some very relevant issues which were raised by the rapporteur, mrs harms, in the course of the committee discussions and which were discussed very extensively. firstly, there is the question of the fate of spent fuel and irradiated elements. this question was also raised today by commissioner oettinger. this is a very important issue on which we expect the european commission to propose a specific directive in the autumn. the european parliament will then have the opportunity to discuss this matter in depth, which i am sure is of importance to many european citizens. i do not therefore think that parliament's decision on the question we are discussing of compensation for kozloduy should prejudge our debate this autumn. i also fully share the commission's argument that if a precedent is set for funding such a programme, then this will pose a threat to the entire budget of the european union. this, of course, in no way cancels or reduces the responsibility of the governments of the countries that have such facilities to find a final solution to the issue of spent fuel. second, the use of the funds. there is no doubt that the funds received from the european union should not finance projects that increase carbon dioxide emissions. incidentally, experience so far in bulgaria and the other two countries receiving similar funds shows no such abuses. but what i think we should see in this text is coherence of european policy and a one-size-fits-all approach. it is of paramount importance to european citizens that their funds are used for their intended purpose in a transparent and efficient manner. the funds that the european union allocates to bulgaria go to a special fund, which also includes amounts from other donors. under pre-approved programmes and under the control of the european bank for reconstruction and development, the funds from this fund, together with the corresponding national financing, shall be directed to the projects concerned. the european court of auditors is about to audit these funds, including the one in bulgaria. i am sure that the european parliament will continue to monitor closely how these funds are used.
mr president, i have a very brief and specific question, because the honourable member has raised safety issues, and i would like her to answer: is it known that before the four small units of the kozloduy nuclear power plant were decommissioned, they were declared the safest reactors in the european union by the european atomic energy agency?
mr president, the words 'blackmail' were used here, and my colleague vălean has just mentioned that bulgaria has misused and not used in good faith the funds from the previous tranche, which was used for compensation. i have a question - let the commission representative be here, let the commission confirm: are there any signals or not?
mr. chairman, we're here tonight to discuss the compensation that bulgaria should receive for the closure of the kozloduy nuclear power plant. this compensation is correct, fair and timely because experts have calculated that the losses suffered by bulgaria from the closure of blocks 1-4 are much greater than all the compensation paid to it so far. but here's the question: why did it have to come to this point at all, why, as i said a moment ago, the safest blocks in europe, declared as such not by anyone but by the most prestigious agency, the international atomic energy agency, had to be closed. and here i wonder at the folly of how this compensation report ended up in the hands of the greens, who, like senator mark cato, began and ended their speeches with how "kozloduy" should be destroyed. and here i want to address my colleague tremopoulos, please, have a little eye not to speak in this way, because it is precisely his country that very recently, thanks to blackmail, got a much larger fortune than bulgaria currently claims. so let him not be so belligerent to explain what bulgaria should have gotten and what it shouldn't have gotten. now we see the greens making changes that have one purpose. because the greens have a problem right now, and their problem is that they've been stimulating carbon dioxide emissions by shutting down the kozloduy plant. and now with these amendments, with which they want to take money from bulgaria even more arrogantly, to redirect it in another direction, they actually want to cover up their own guilt. because they can't explain to their constituents why their constituents, the citizens of the european union, have to pay to have more carbon dioxide emissions in the union. the opposite of the green position is the case here. there's also an amendment that says that goosebumps should be an example. but the one thing that kozloduy was an example of is how old reactors can be safe and function perfectly. and the only thing that it can be an example of going forward is a lesson example: how a great, working and profitable industry for a country can be eliminated thanks to political madness.
rapporteur. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all the colleagues who contributed to the elaboration of this important report which outlines the need for an eu strategy towards the south caucasus region. the south caucasus is not only a region in the immediate neighbourhood of the union – romania and bulgaria have a sea border with it – but also a region of great strategic importance for the union in political, economic and security aspects. therefore, the european union’s main objective there should be to participate actively in its stabilisation and to encourage the development of armenia, azerbaijan and georgia towards stability and democracy; to establish good neighbourly relations and integration in eu policies. the european parliament supports strongly all the initiatives which increase the eu presence in the region and in particular the most recent one, the eastern partnership. it offers a valuable framework for increased regional cooperation, introduction of visa-free travel to the union and conclusion of comprehensive free trade agreements. this is a two-way process that requires efforts and dedication from both sides; it is in the vital interests of the three countries to continue their efforts towards further democratisation. good governance, political pluralism, rule of law and respect for human rights are of paramount importance for determining their future relations with the union. therefore the european union should continue providing financial and technical assistance to them in order to promote these principles within the framework of political conditionality. the region’s strategic geopolitical location, its increasing importance as an energy, transport and communication corridor connecting the caspian sea and central asia with europe and the growing eu preoccupation with energy security suggest a more active participation in the energy projects of the region, including the completion of the nabucco pipeline project. however, these ambitious eu policies can hardly be achieved when there is a big shadow over the region: the unresolved conflicts in georgia and the nagorno karabakh. they are also a serious impediment to democratisation, political stability and social and economic development. unfortunately, it was owing to the 2008 war in georgia that the union realised that it needs to play a more active role in the region as far as conflict prevention and conflict management are concerned. the deadlock situation due to these conflicts and the entry into force of the lisbon treaty justify an increasing pro-active eu policy. this is particularly valid for the nagorno karabakh conflict where the union has been practically absent. simply stating support for the work of the minsk group at this stage is not enough if the eu takes seriously its new, more active role in foreign policy. the union is the international mediator that is accepted by both sides and whose presence does not raise controversies. there is a need for the union to lead the international efforts for rehabilitation and reconstruction in this conflict area by initiating reconciliation projects, people-to-people programmes and contacts and by sending a mission into the region once a political solution is found. the conflicts in the region also demand a special effort with regard to the situation of the hundreds of thousands of displaced persons, which has serious humanitarian consequences. the european union has the means and experience to contribute to the creation of a more tolerant atmosphere in the south caucasus. it should also draw from its own historical experience and show to the people of the region that they can live together in peace and prosperity and can restore the good relations and trust which historically existed. it is a main task for the union to try to convince the leaders and the people – the hearts and minds of the people – in the region to support the peace initiatives, not the threats, not the tensions. so there is a good future if we try to do it all together.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am pleased to participate in this exchange of views with the european parliament on the european union’s relationship with armenia, azerbaijan and georgia, the three countries of the south caucasus. i already had a very good discussion on the south caucasus with the members of the foreign affairs committee on 28 april, shortly after my visit to the region. i welcome this report as a valuable contribution to the reflection on how the european union can build an even stronger and broader relationship with armenia, azerbaijan and georgia. let me recall that we have a solid framework of engagement, namely the well-established european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership launched last year. the former continues to be one of the european union’s top priorities for its external relations. successful implementation of the latter, with the active engagement of the partner countries, will further strengthen our relations on the basis of shared values. let me underline two very important milestones along this road. last week the commission published its third annual progress report for the south caucasus countries. the enp action plans and the regular assessment of their implementation remain an essential tool to advance political and economic reforms in those countries as well as their cooperation with the european union. this time we have chosen a five-year assessment for the european neighbourhood policy package. the main objective is that we want to use the findings as a basis for extensive consultations with the member states, with you here in the european parliament, and with our partners in the neighbourhood, to get your – and their – feedback as to whether we have the right tools and instruments in place, whether the amount and the allocation of resources is appropriate, and whether the speed and the scope of our efforts are right and are going in the right direction. the results will be presented in the framework of next year’s package, which should make our policy more coherent and which will, without doubt, lead to a higher degree of ownership by our neighbours. it will also be an ideal opportunity to make our case for the provision of adequate resources by the next financial perspective very strong. the second milestone is the authorisation by the council, again last week, of the opening of the negotiations on association agreements with armenia, azerbaijan and georgia. the adoption of these negotiating directives is a clear signal of our strong commitment to further deepening the relationship between the european union and the countries of the south caucasus on the basis of shared values and principles including democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. the commission is already preparing for such negotiations, which are expected to start within the next few months. these two areas clearly demonstrate that the eu already has a well-established and comprehensive strategy for the south caucasus, whose potential we are seeking to exploit to the fullest extent, a strategy to bring this region closer to the european union. in the light of the report by mr kirilov, which is a very valuable and much appreciated contribution, i conclude that the european parliament’s views converge very much with those of the commission on number of points. the stability and security of the south caucasus have a direct impact on europe. therefore the european union shares the responsibility for supporting the peaceful resolution of conflict and confidence-building. the south caucasus matters to the european union, not least due to its energy and transport links. improved governance and a stronger system of the rule of law will facilitate trade and investment as well as mobility of persons. the new association agreements will expand the trade provisions under the partnership and cooperation agreements. i believe that the european union is on the right track in strengthening relations with armenia, azerbaijan and georgia. let me stress, however, that the responsibility for the establishment of a constructive framework for engagement is a joint effort. the commitment of our south caucasus partners to approximation with europe needs to be translated into further progress towards democracy, market economy and political stability on the ground. i thus call on armenia, azerbaijan and georgia to move forward in their efforts towards a modern, inclusive, pluralistic democratic and prosperous society at peace with their neighbours.
rap avis inta. this is the first time i've seen you. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as alde coordinator i had the opportunity to present an opinion to the committee on international trade on the need for a european union strategy for the south caucasus and i know that this report is complex and sensitive in many areas. the strategy is vital for a consistent good neighbour policy. it consolidates the role of the european union as a global actor in the region in the field of common foreign and security policy. cooperation with the south caucasus in the field of energy, in order to promote democracy and good governance, should be included among the union's main priorities. this is important for regional cooperation, and also because of the geopolitical position of armenia, georgia and azerbaijan on the one hand, and of russia, iran and turkey as candidates for membership of the european union on the other. trade barriers need to be removed and trade and economic relations between the eu and the south caucasus need to be strengthened. this will foster political stability and respect for human rights, and lead to sustainable growth and prosperity in the region. the conclusion of association agreements and comprehensive free trade agreements must therefore become a key objective in our foreign policy towards the south caucasus. this will contribute to the resolution of frozen conflicts, allow azerbaijan to join the world trade organization in a short time, improve the administrative and institutional capacity of these countries. i therefore call on the commission to be more committed to achieving these objectives.
mr president, i would like to start by informing you, ladies and gentlemen, that the rapporteurs kirilov and kazak belong to parties which in the bulgarian national assembly systematically vote against the recognition of the armenian genocide. in this context, it is not surprising that, as mr tannock said before me, this report deviates from some of the positions previously taken, and quite serious armenian organisations have contacted me, particularly on the issue of nagorno-karabakh, and informed me that the report, for example, was not communicated to and consulted with leading figures in the minsk group. and that although he's referring to the madrid criteria, he's actually deviating from them. and that is why i would like to make this constructive criticism to my colleague kirillov, because i believe that unilateral intervention by only one side will not improve things, will not lead to resolving conflicts. there has to be a flexible approach that sees absolutely all points of view, otherwise we're just going to deepen conflicts rather than resolve them.
mr president, i welcome mr kirillov's report, which stresses the need for the european union to play a more active role in the south caucasus, a region of major geopolitical importance. the positive development in the south caucasus is in the interest of both the neighbouring black sea region, for which the european union unfortunately does not yet have a clear strategy, which we hope to discuss here shortly, and the european union as a whole. i would like to express my concern at the delay in the ratification process of the protocols signed between turkey and armenia last october. i believe that neither party should make ratification of these protocols conditional, which are in the interests of both the turkish and armenian peoples. as the report rightly points out, the negotiations between armenia and turkey on the opening of the border and the establishment of diplomatic relations and those in the osce minsk group dealing with nagorno-karabakh should be treated as separate issues. the european union must undoubtedly engage more actively in the future settlement of the nagorno-karabakh conflict. with our experience in the balkans and soon in georgia, the european union is well placed to play a leading role in this region. a stable, secure and prosperous south caucasus is in our interest and it is high time we took responsibility. the lisbon treaty provides the framework for the european union to become a truly global actor. a concrete example in this regard would be the participation of the european union as a formal member within the minsk group, rather than just some individual member states being such members.
member of the commission. − mr president, the last speaker, mr paška, made a very important point. i would like to make three very short remarks. firstly, i believe that we have a strategy, through the eastern partnership, to get these three countries closer to the european union – and in fact they are saying ‘as close as it gets’. secondly, i think we have instruments for that: association agreements, economic integration agreements, mobility (the visa issue) and, last but not least, a different european union – a european union which could combine the community approach with the common foreign security policy approach. my third remark is that i am looking forward to a discussion with honourable members on the neighbourhood package, where we could also discuss the question of whether the concept ‘as close as possible to the european union’s needs to have some institutional definition.
rapporteur. − mr president, once again thank you very much for the comments and for the fruitful cooperation we had in the process. thank you for all the comments and for the support i received from the majority of the colleagues who spoke. i would like to thank the inta draftsperson, mr kazak, for the constructive ideas presented by his committee, and the contribution of the itre committee many of whose suggestions found their place in the report. my gratitude goes also to the afet secretariat and for the numerous experts, ngos and other organisations who work actively in the region and who gave their valuable input and support. i just want to say one thing. we should apply the same principles. i heard some criticism from some colleagues. we should know that this house definitely would not support us if we speak about territorial integrity and self-determination for georgia. we should know that the universal application of principles is the best basis to start and build relationships. i hope that the council and the commission will take on board the recommendation made by the parliament in this text and devise a comprehensive strategy for the eu towards the south caucasus, and i would like to point out that commissioner füle made a very timely visit to this region. i would like to appeal to baroness ashton to do likewise and try to engage in conflict prevention in the area. let me say that we welcome and support last week's decision by the council to adopt the negotiating directives for the future association agreements with the three countries, and we believe that upgrading the contractual relations with the three countries is an important step. the time is right to step up with measures to prevent negative developments in the region and the escalation of tensions. otherwise we risk intervening again when it is already too late. we should not wait for it to happen again. the big lesson europe has learnt is the lesson of integration. this is the only sustainable way of reconciliation with the past and investment in a better future.
i was supposed to talk about schengen today, but another topic turned out to be much more important. the european parliament and the ministers will give more power to eurostat to audit the member states' budgets. meanwhile, commissioner olli rehn has identified bulgaria as the country to which eurostat will send the first audit with the new audit functions because of doubts about the reliability of the data submitted by the bulgarian government on budget deficit and debt. in the days following this statement, bulgaria's positions on the world financial markets have deteriorated sharply. most of us support the increased powers of eurostat and the increased scrutiny. we would, however, like to see mechanisms in place to exclude ex ante assessments of one or another member state that could damage its financial image. before that, the commission must have an analysis of whether data has indeed been falsified, whether intentionally or not. in this case, the bulgarian government has apparently broken the communication with the commission, giving the impression of lack of transparency and incorrectness of the data provided. however, it is not correct to name and use one single party as an argument in favour of the decision on the new control powers of eurostat.
madam president, the mass protests that occurred as a result of the disputed presidential elections in june 2009 have been the pretext for the iranian regime to continue its persecution of human rights activists and its denial of women’s rights and religious freedom. according to several organisations, including amnesty international, the supreme leader of the revolutionary guards intelligence services has reinforced their control over the country and intensified the perception already in place for years. despite a recent release of 81 prisoners, reportedly 450 other prisoners remain in jail, often convicted in shameful post-election trials. twenty-two executions have been reported in iran for the month of june alone. i think the european parliament needs to send a strong signal of solidarity to the iranian people. we cannot turn a blind eye to human rights violations, and, in line with the european parliament resolution of 10 february 2010, i would suggest that we move strongly to support the human rights activists by granting them temporary asylum. europe should also call one more time for iran to introduce a moratorium on the death penalty, in accordance with the united nations general assembly resolutions.
i want to steer the debate in a more practical direction, because the commissioner announced last week that there would be a special eurostat audit of the statistics the commission has received from bulgaria. unfortunately, mr. wren's statement did not make clear why such an examination is necessary, and i would like to take this opportunity to ask him a question. what criteria did the most stable balkan member state set when all the other balkan member states are experiencing great difficulties? what were the criteria that you decided that bulgaria should be the place to do the checks? and isn't that some sort of momentum from your previous expansion director? you also just said it was very bad that moody's downgraded greece's credit rating. but do you realize that by throwing such statements into the public space, bulgaria's credit rating could be lowered at the next moment and then you can't be angry with moody's. you'll have to be angry with yourself.
author. − today, when assessing the results achieved by the roadmap for equality between women and men and at the same time outlining future directions in this area, we must pay particular attention to policies that have a direct or indirect impact on gender equality. we expect the european commission to propose a policy for women who have become victims of injustice, discrimination, hunger, poverty, human trafficking and all kinds of violence. it is necessary to take account of the fact that, although equality between women and men is a prerequisite for the full enjoyment of fundamental human rights and a fundamental principle of the european union, inequalities in the political reality and in the lives of women still persist. it is therefore particularly important to work towards the promotion of gender equality policies, which are an instrument for economic development and social cohesion. the need for a new and socially sustainable model that integrates the full range of women's skills in the economy, restores the balance of responsibilities between women and men in public and private life and ensures such a work-life balance should be taken into account. in the context of the roadmap for equality between women and men report under consideration, this oral question is particularly indicative of the european parliament's attitude towards policies to promote gender equality. i believe that with the charter of women's rights, followed later this year by a strategy for its implementation, it is necessary to consolidate the progress made in recent decades in this area and to formulate a solid european policy for creating a more inclusive society. we expect the commission to propose measures in the gender equality strategy to ensure concrete legislative initiatives to combat violence against women, legislative and non-legislative instruments to eliminate discrimination in the labour market, pay gaps, the shift of women to unskilled work, effective measures to increase women's employment and social benefits in the context of the european union 2020 strategy, programmes to promote women's participation in the green economy, policies to increase women's representation in management decision-making, adequate legislative changes to increase women's participation in management positions. raising awareness of women's rights in europe is our common task and i believe that our combined efforts will lead to an effective european policy on equality between women and men, backed up by real strategies, implementation measures and concrete programmes. i would like to draw particular attention to the fact that in the context of the global economic crisis, the role of women in the business world is becoming crucial. our joint action to close the employment gap, increase the participation of more women in company management and in all areas of public relations in general will ensure positive results. achieving gender equality will have a positive impact on productivity and economic growth and the multiple social and economic benefits of our societies. we are not simply ambitious, commissioner, and we do not want to prove the power of the european parliament. we are accountable to our voters, and they put gender inequality as the number one unresolved problem for the european union, and we look to you for support to work together to solve this problem.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis, which has become an economic crisis and, finally, a social crisis, has had a very negative impact on the positive developments we have seen so far in the field of equality between men and women. whether it is the unemployment rate or the pay gap, it is clear that women are suffering more from the consequences of the crisis, as they are in a more vulnerable situation than men. that is why it is important that we set clear short, medium and longterm objectives, that we put in place concrete measures to tackle the urgent problems and that we really give ourselves the means to our actions and our ambitions. it is true that member states, at their level, have a lot to do in terms of collective awareness and exchange of good practice. but it is equally certain that it is our responsibility here in the european parliament not to allow texts to pass which are devoid of any substance and which are not innovative in any way. we must, on the contrary, include appropriate and practical solutions. simplicity, efficiency, innovation, here we go... (the president cuts off the microphone from the speaker)
member of the commission. − mr president, i am quite confident that bulgaria and romania will do their utmost to reach the target date for lifting the internal border controls in march 2011. the commission, within its competences, will fully support both countries in order for them to successfully pass the schengen evaluation. it is the responsibility of the council to carry out the schengen evaluations and based on these evaluations the council will decide on the lifting of internal border controls. these evaluations are ongoing, so it is too early to assess the state of play of the preparations. but the first steps have been successful, confirmed by the positive evaluation of data protection, which allows now bulgaria and romania to get access to the schengen information system. the european parliament and mr coelho propose that bulgaria and romania should inform council and parliament on the follow-up recommendations. it is indeed the practice in the current schengen evaluation that the member states concerned report to the council on the measures to comply with the recommendations, as the evaluation mechanism is now under full responsibility of the council. on that basis, and under current legislation, it is up to the council to inform parliament accordingly. in this context, i would like to take up your proposal and confirm that i will soon, in the autumn, propose a new evaluation mechanism following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty for the reasons that you stated, mr coelho. i think that both member states and parliament should be involved in this mechanism. member states of course shall be involved to maintain mutual trust among each other on their capacity to apply all accompanying measures allowing for the lifting of internal border control, in particular in the field of external borders, visa and police cooperation. the european parliament should indeed be fully informed of the outcome of these results of the evaluation. with this new mechanism, the commission aims to remedy the current weaknesses as referred to by the rapporteur. there is no real follow-up at this time after evaluations are made and the recommendations are not always implemented. the support of parliament in this process is indeed very much appreciated.
on behalf of the ppe group. i congratulate mr coelho and welcome the progress that this report makes for bulgaria and romania. on the basis of the positive results and conclusions of the verification in the area of personal data protection, it is possible to set a date from which the schengen information system can also be applied in bulgaria. both bulgaria's accession to the european union and its accession to the schengen area are exciting for all bulgarian citizens. more than enthusiasm, it is about the possibility of abolishing border checks and the effective right of free movement throughout the union. this success is due to the incredible efforts and purposeful actions of the current bulgarian government, which has done everything possible to catch up with the backlog of previous years, to fulfil the conditions and prepare the necessary for the application of schengen law. the schengen area is not just about freedom of movement. it also means enhanced police and customs cooperation, particularly in the context of combating trafficking in human beings and goods and more generally in the fight against organised crime. the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area is part of the path towards realising our dream of a people's europe. it requires constant efforts, compliance with the requirements of schengen law by the governments of the parties, but also constant support from the european institutions. the european parliament's access to the recommendations in the evaluation reports and follow-up documents is a guarantee that the constructive dialogue between us all will continue. this transparent dialogue is also a guarantee for the citizens of bulgaria and romania that the fundamental rights enshrined in the treaties are a reality.
i appreciate your efforts to bring order to the courtroom, but there's no way. clearly, the noise will only grow. madam vice-president of the commission and high representative, thank you for presenting the meeting here in front of our parliament. we've been following the results very closely. our assessment is that it went constructively, with less tension, with more realism, with more mutual respect on both sides, and i think that this new atmosphere will inevitably start to bear fruit in our relations. the fact is that if we still have a divergence in values, more and more common goals are becoming between the european union and russia, so in this direction we have a wide field in which we can work. i cannot agree with colleagues who say that the resolution we are presenting and will adopt is weak. on the contrary, it is a balanced resolution, as if we hadn't had one in a long time, and it reflects the results of this meeting. finally, i believe that this improved communication with russia is of great importance for the eastern partnership, because it will enable us to resolve together some of the longstanding problems in the countries participating in this partnership.
on behalf of the alde group. how to limit and regulate the trade in instruments of torture and inhumane punishment is a problem that has raised concerns in several parliamentary committees. as a liberal, i am convinced that fair and partnership-based trade and economic relations cannot be built if human rights and freedoms are ignored. where does the concern of these two committees come from? the list of torture devices is not comprehensive. it is not enough to simply update the list, but to draw up a detailed list of goods which must be banned unconditionally and the distribution of which must be controlled, based on clear criteria. a number of member states have failed to provide annual reports on how they fulfil their obligations under the regulation. other parties did not provide information on the imposition of penalties in cases of infringement of the provisions of the regulation. and if there has been a lack of political will, there is no longer any excuse for non-compliance in the area of this trade. so in the resolution we have prepared, we are calling on the commission to publish a detailed report on the trade in torture goods. the european parliament expects stronger controls on the production and distribution of such goods and on the regulation of international trade in such goods, which is an integral part of our commitment to respect for human rights.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, there is one place on earth where the iron curtain is as strong as 20 years ago. the turbulent political developments that brought changes and freedom elsewhere in the former soviet bloc and speeded up the gradual transformation in neighbouring china did not reach the democratic republic of korea. our parliament is discussing today another episode of rising tension between two states who share one nation. this time the reason is a sunken south korean ship, an accident caused by the north korean torpedo, a fact proved by the joint investigation group. the s&d group condemns this provocative act, which left 46 dead and put in danger the fragile peace and stability in the korean peninsula. we welcome the restraint of the south korean authorities, which succeeded in bringing the escalation of the tension under control before it became an armed conflict. in every crisis, however, there is a positive element. it is focusing attention and is giving a chance for renewed efforts by the main players to achieve lasting solutions. that is why the resumption of the six-party talks has no alternative, particularly if we take into account the continuing lack of clarity around the nuclear programmes of dprk. the joint motion for a resolution to be voted tomorrow is a clear sign that the overwhelming majority in this parliament shares the same view on the latest tragic event. the same majority is keen to see new engagement by the eu and for it to have a much higher political profile in the efforts to achieve stability and prosperity in the korean peninsula. we highly appreciate and fully support the continuation of the humanitarian aid programmes for the north and the improvement in the trade relations with the south, but we expect more. now you have in your hands new tools and new ambition and we expect the eu to bring new value and dynamics to the future negotiations. dealing with non-democratic countries, we always face the dilemma of how to approach them. isolate and sanction, or engage and give incentives? it is not easy to diagnose and choose the best medicine, but i believe that it would be a grave mistake to see the north korean leadership in a way that is shown in hollywood movies. i think that the time of change is inevitably approaching, and they know it. there is, however, no critical mass of people within it who see those changes more as an opportunity rather than a threat. my advice would be to take as the main orientation the necessity to remove the fear of change in north korea. it is not an easy task but, together with other key players in the region, we could achieve it. it is the only way to avoid other accidents of that kind. finally, high representative, let me underline our satisfaction at your clear and timely response to the sinking of the ship, as well as the clear presentation in front of parliament today.
i would like to congratulate our colleague mr. milana on his excellent professional and timely report. it is a document that is awaited by many people whose livelihood is fishing, which will reduce the depletion of fish stocks in european waters and at the same time help the market for fish products. we call on the european commission to come up with a proposal for a regulation on aquaculture, because more legislative clarity is needed in the sector. our commitment to the development of aquaculture is necessarily accompanied by specific funding from the existing european fisheries fund, which will ensure its priority development. this funding will stimulate aquaculture production in the european union, especially in the newly acceded countries, which have potential but still insufficiently developed and exploited capacity. and last but not least: "reduce bureaucracy and simplify administrative procedures for the appropriation of funds". this is the desire of the people in the industry, this is the condition for the good development of the aquaculture sector.
mr president, mr commissioner, allow me to raise with particular concern the question of the recognition of higher education diplomas within the european union. unfortunately, despite repeated discussions and very clear european legislation, some member states continue to create difficulties and in some cases do not recognise the qualification stated in the diplomas. i could point to the example of bulgaria, where the recognition of a degree obtained from a university in another eu country is not automatic, as it should be. a number of additional documents are required to be submitted and examined by a special committee. in addition to the considerable cost of funds and time, citizens who want to legalise their diplomas risk being rejected. this deprives universities of the right to assess the circumstances of the award of a diploma, which is in direct contradiction with council directive 8948 of 21 december 1988 and the case-law of the court of justice of the european communities. i believe that the commission should take action to put an end to this injustice.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioner, i would also like to express my thanks to the rapporteur and, on behalf of our shadow rapporteur ms lepage, i would like to express our support for the main key points of the report adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. as my colleague said, the main outstanding issue in the revision of the novel foods regulation is the question of animal cloning. while no safety concerns have been identified so far with meat produced from cloned animals, such a technology still raises serious concerns about animal welfare, the reduction of biodiversity, and ethical considerations. this is why we want to exclude meat produced from cloned animals and their offspring from the scope of this regulation, and we ask the commission to present a legislative proposal addressing all aspects of this issue. it would be unacceptable to set up an authorisation process for the marketing of cloned animals without giving european citizens and the european parliament the chance to have a proper debate about all the implications of this technology. let me also remind you that this position has already been clearly expressed by parliament in its 2008 resolution on the cloning of animals for the food supply chain. with regard to nanofood, we should indeed make sure that no products containing engineered nano-particulates are put on the market until appropriate specific risk assessment methods have been developed and approved. guidelines in this regard should be drafted by efsa in consultation with all stakeholders and approved by member states and parliament. most of us would also agree that the question of transparency is crucial when we address this dossier. we therefore need to guarantee public access to data on which the risk assessment for novel food is based. it is not only studies paid by public money that should be publicly accessible, but all data related to risk assessment, in conformity with the aarhus convention and the eu law currently applying. there is no contradiction with this principle of public access to data and protection of intellectual property rights, as long as an applicant who uses data from another applicant pays royalties. transparency should also apply when we speak about the labelling of products from animals fed by gmos. to conclude, i would like to stress our hope that the discussion in conciliation will lead to a clear text which guarantees both safety and transparency for our citizens.
i am pleased that creating conditions for sustainable growth is a top priority of the belgian presidency, for which you have our support, and i wish you every success. the differences between european regions need to be reduced, especially in terms of infrastructure, where eastern europe lags behind. the european union must have a single position on energy issues. the interconnection of our countries' energy networks is of paramount importance for the independence and security of our continent. this matter cannot be delayed. it's the only way we'll be stronger in negotiations with our suppliers. all our projects are nice, but our project is the nicest, the nabucco project". i expect the presidency to give a strong impetus to the project and to have the financial backing for it. as regards enlargement, i expect the negotiations with croatia to be completed by the end of the belgian presidency, so that a treaty of accession for croatia can be signed in early 2011. and i think that the visa liberalisation for the other western balkan member states should continue. i thank you very much, mr prime minister, and i wish you a successful presidency.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. - mr president, commissioner, ms ashton, one of the main problems that has arisen in recent months has been the question of whether parliament can have all the instruments it needs to exercise strict control over the expenditure of the european external action budget. the specific institutional nature of the european external action service raised many questions concerning the transparency, economy and efficiency of its budget. i am glad that with the very active efforts of my colleagues in the committee on budgetary control, of the european commission and of you personally, mrs ashton, we have been able to find the best answers to allow the adoption of the parliamentary decision to set up the office. the clear accountability and design of the whole budgetary procedure gives us confidence that the european union's external policy will be created and implemented sufficiently effectively by all the institutions involved, with clear rules on accountability. our work has been aimed at giving the green light to the creation of the european external action service as soon as possible. i hope that we can show very soon that the mechanisms we have adopted are working well. in practice, the interests of european taxpayers are fully protected.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. president, mrs ashton, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to see that the european external action service is now taking shape and will soon be a fully functioning structure. just six months ago, many colleagues expressed doubts about the ability of catherine ashton, high representative for foreign affairs and security policy and vice-president of the european commission, to cope with the challenges of a new post with great powers but also great responsibilities. i think time has finally dispelled those doubts and lady ashton has in an extremely skillful way succeeded in creating the foundations of this new service, for which i congratulate her. we must also give the european parliament its due. from the outset, a cooperative approach was adopted, which i hope will be maintained when we adopt the amendments to the financial regulation and the staff regulations. one of the most controversial issues was and remains the so-called geographical balance. or, to put it more clearly, fair representation of the member countries. this problem mainly affects the new member states, which are still greatly underestimated: both in terms of the number of representatives and their positions in the hierarchy. i come from such a side myself, and i can assure you that we would be making a mistake if we did not maintain a high level of sensitivity on this issue. only in this way will we ensure that all european citizens feel adequately represented in the new service. at the same time, i call on the diplomatic services of the new member states to take measures for additional qualification and training where necessary to present competitive candidates. finally, i would like to see clear guarantees given as of now that there will be no tolerance for the misuse of positions in the diplomatic service to solve purely national problems to the detriment of the long-term objectives and interests of the european union.
i would like to congratulate the authors of the two draft resolutions, as they give an objective and accurate picture of the current situation in kosovo and albanian society. this picture shows that some of the old problems are still there, but there are also new ones. and that's a credit to both authors. we must also realize that kosovo, and to an even greater extent, in my view, albania, are societies of great contrasts. and our effort should be directed toward helping them to overcome those contrasts. in almost every text of the draft resolutions this can be easily understood. we see that albania has impressive economic growth and at the same time, astonishing poverty in many areas; that there are many laws passed but they are poorly enforced; that there is diversity in the media world, but at the same time the media is subject to political pressure. and it would not be possible to reform albanian society well if the well-known conflict between the two main political blocs continues. i think commissioner fule should tell them very clearly that they have to stop this 'canadian' fight and return to the field of parliamentarism.
mr president, despite the fact that we have a joint debate today, albania and kosovo are very different. what unites them is the european perspective, given and reconfirmed on a number of occasions. kosovo is struggling to create state institutions that function well, while its independence is not recognised by five of the eu member states. we cannot exert pressure on these countries to revise their decision, but what we should expect is to work together to produce an approach that would allow kosovo to move irreversibly towards eu membership. the first important successful step should be visa dialogue and the beginning of talks on the stabilisation and association agreement, whatever we may call it. regarding albania, the first and most urgent action needed is to find a solution to the lasting political crisis, which has the capacity to block the country’s eu integration process. in this respect, if we are serious about our support for albania, it is our joint responsibility to facilitate an agreement between government and opposition. i have to express a certain disappointment in our colleagues from the european people’s party, where either they are not consistent enough or their political influence over the ruling party in tirana and its leader, mr berisha, was simply too limited. however i still hope that the two biggest european political families will resume their joint efforts with more success after the summer break.
i thank the two rapporteurs and mr fule for their work. i hope that the albanian political class will be up to the task of serving the better european future of its citizens and ending the political instability in the country. visa liberalization should be finalized by the end of this year. it is very important that albanians and, most importantly, young people can travel and experience europe more closely. albania has made some progress in the fight against corruption, but of course much more needs to be done. the commission should also take account of the fact that the number of people in the labour market is increasing, and that the number of jobs is increasing. it is important to deepen legal and administrative reform and to improve the rule of law. the following is added to annex i to decision (cfsp) 2015/33: kosovo should receive a visa-free travel map from the european union. in addition to all the benefits, i think it will reduce the ethnic tension. it will signal that the european union is a viable prospect for kosovo. i call on both the european union and the authorities in kosovo to work towards the country's faster european integration. this includes, of course, the protection of the rights of all national minorities and their cultural heritage. violence is unacceptable. kosovo shall strengthen the rule of law throughout its territory. it is important that the kosovo authorities take adequate measures against organised crime and widespread corruption in all areas of economic and political life.
madam president, i just wanted to react to mrs pack’s second speech in this debate. this behaviour does not help in finding a solution. with your speeches and the way in which you react, you encourage berisha and the ruling party to reject any reconciliation with the opposition. i do not think that this is responsible. therefore, i urge you and your political group to change your tone and to try to work with us in order to find a solution, rather than encouraging berisha to continue in the way we know he can.
mrs ashton, mrs georgieva, colleagues, kyrgyzstan is often on the agenda of the european parliament and the specialised committee on foreign policy. this shows the importance we attach both to this country and to the european union's policy in central asia in general. the events are very dynamic and contradictory. attempts to stabilize the new government were accompanied by the outbreak of heavy ethnic clashes, in which, according to various estimates, between three hundred and two thousand people were killed, and one hundred thousand sought refuge in neighboring uzbekistan. however, we must give credit to the uzbek side for its calm behaviour, which prevented the escalation of the conflict. on the other hand, the adequate response of the kyrgyz authorities led to a relatively rapid restoration of order. but achieving lasting stability in this part of the country requires that both the instigators of the conflict and the perpetrators of the crimes be tracked down and punished. the country's interim leadership should also be commended for showing determination to uphold the country's political reforms and not using the clashes in osh and jalalabad to cancel the scheduled referendum. significantly, just days after the clashes in kyrgyzstan, a referendum was successfully held that changed the balance of power in the institutions, giving more power to parliament and, accordingly, to the government at the expense of presidential powers. in addition, an important step was taken to give more legitimacy to interim president roza otunbayeva, who was confirmed in this interim post until the end of 2011 by the consultation. parliamentary elections are coming up in the autumn. i emphasize these facts because our position must take into account all the details. the european union has responded quickly and adequately, for which i thank you. but the time has come to review our policy and look for opportunities for a more serious engagement of the european union both in kyrgyzstan and in the central asian region. we have the financial instruments. but as in other regions, we need to work from now on in a way that makes us a major donor and a real political player alongside russia, china and the united states. it seems to me that we are the ones who can help to overcome the greatest deficit in the region, and that is the deficit of democracy.
author. − madam president, first of all i would like to underline that there is broad agreement in this parliament on the situation in north korea. it was very easy to come to a joint resolution and, as you see, there are no amendments to this resolution, so we are united behind it. on the other hand, i would like to raise one point – which was also discussed in my group yesterday – that maybe using the urgencies procedure on such issues is not the best way because nothing really urgent has happened in north korea. maybe we deserve to have a bit more time to prepare a more comprehensive resolution and to debate a bit more on the possible recommendations and more complex solutions that we may offer. i do not want to repeat what has already been said in the resolution about the grave violations of human rights there. this is perhaps a country like no other in the world right now. i would like to underline, however, that of all those violations, the public executions where children are present are perhaps the most disgusting. i do not think we should put all these violations in any order, but this is really something very disgusting. fortunately in our resolution we recognised that china has a role to play. the changes in china, including in the human rights area, may not be sufficient for us but are a good example and perhaps china can use its relations to promote some changes in north korea. this should be one of the future topics of our discussions with china when we have our bilateral dialogue. finally, allow me to say that appointing an eu special representative for north korea could be a very good step towards being able to promote a more complex approach on this.
madam president, i would like to raise the issue that is in the headlines at the moment, namely the integration of the roma community in europe. there will be a debate with the commission and the council tomorrow. i hope that it will be fruitful, that the commission will take up its role of ensuring that european legislation is respected and that the controversy which has arisen in france will not feed into an endless stream of instrumentalised and populist speeches. what the roma need today is not partisan quarrels. they need a genuine european strategy, which offers sustainable solutions to their integration. to do this, we need to look at access to education, think about the development of appropriate training as an integral part of the 2020 strategy, promote access to health care - consultations, treatment, medicines, family planning - and, above all, find solutions for the sustainable integration of roma in the labour market. finally, the success of this integration is facilitated by the use of the european funds devoted to it. we must therefore ensure that the member states make good use of them. let us not miss this opportunity to take the problem head-on and think intelligently about roma integration.
madam chairman, the protest of the imams and muftis from all 1200 muslim dioceses in bulgaria, which began in june, is deepening. on saturday, the grand mufti's office in sofia was besieged by a guard sent by the unwelcome but court-ordered chairman of the supreme muslim council, nedim genjev, who was not allowing employees into the building days before the muslim holy holiday of ramadan bayram. the muftis have submitted 213,000 signatures in support of their legitimate leadership, elected in 2009, which the court still refuses to register. this absurd situation testifies to the state's blatant interference in the self-government of religious communities on the principle of "divide and rule". muslims in bulgaria are victims of illegal actions that trample on the rule of law, because of the lethargy of the judiciary and the government, which is unable to guarantee the freedom of association and religion of citizens. i therefore call for a special investigation by the european commission into the matter. - thank you. - thank you.
member of the commission. − madam president, we welcome parliament's initiative to express its opinion on the future revision of the brussels i regulation. i would also like to particularly thank the rapporteur for this well-documented report which allows the european parliament to reflect on the future revision. this is the first time that parliament will be co-legislating in this file, which concerns the heart of civil judicial cooperation in europe. we welcome the support of parliament for the major objective of the upcoming revision, which is the realisation of a true free circulation of judgments in the union. i would like to stress that the abolition of exequatur should constitute a real step forward in judicial integration; that the commission does not see this as the mere removal of a superfluous formality, but as a step forward in the mutual trust in each other's judicial systems; and that as a result the existing refusal grounds should be reduced, subject to appropriate safeguards. we welcome parliament's agreement that choice of court and arbitration agreement should be protected efficiently in the union. the commission will study the most appropriate means to achieve this objective in the union, taking into account international conventions on the matter. may i indicate, however, that the protection of arbitration agreements should not limit the free circulation of judgments in the union. i would also stress that the european union should strengthen the judicial protection of its citizens at worldwide level, creating a legal environment promoting worldwide trade and offering our european companies a level playing field when doing business outside europe. the commission invites parliament in the upcoming revision to open its position on this matter, which really concerns access to justice in europe and the enforcement of rights granted by european union law. the commission welcomes parliament's support for improving provisional relief in litigation and indicates that it is exploring the best way forward, not only in the context of the brussels i regulation, but also with respect to the creation of a european bank attachment. i see this report as a first step in the future revision of the brussels i regulation. obviously we will have the opportunity to debate this further in the future. the commission intends to propose a revision of the regulation by the end of the year and it looks forward to cooperation with parliament for the first time on this matter.
rapporteur. − madam president, i very much welcome the opportunity to present today my report on the social integration of women belonging to ethnic minority groups, an issue of utmost importance which is too often undermined; this discussion is also very timely, especially when we look at the events which have taken place this summer in france. integration is very often discussed as a way to fight discrimination against minority groups. however, one fact rarely mentioned is that it is women who are the greatest victims of discrimination: once for belonging to an ethnic minority group, and again simply because they are female. article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights prohibits any discrimination based on membership of a national minority, but there are ethnic minority communities living in the union which are still victims of discrimination, social exclusion and segregation. this situation cannot be accepted. are we saying that eu fundamental rights do not apply to all people living in the eu? the principle of gender equality is also one of the key principles of the charter, but sometimes it feels as if this fact is forgotten, especially in the case of women from ethnic minorities. there is no universally accepted definition of ‘ethnic minority’ and the use of this term itself has been debated. in my report i use the term ‘ethnic minority’ to act as an umbrella definition to refer to those groups, including for example the roma population, who do not benefit from eu fundamental rights. i tried to produce a report which evaluated the issues surrounding the social integration policies in the eu, particularly for women belonging to ethnic minority groups, and to highlight what works, where there are problems, and to help identify solutions. one of the most striking issues is the one of access to the labour market and to public services such as education, health care, including reproductive health, and social services – and when i speak about reproductive health i am talking about the right to have a child, not only to have an abortion. in the majority of cases these women are more vulnerable to social exclusion, poverty and extreme human rights violations such as trafficking in human beings and courses of sterilisation. i believe that measures to overcome the exclusion of women belonging to all ethnic minority groups need to be set within the wider framework of european equality, inclusion and growth policies. in order to ensure the development of a democratic, open-minded society which transmits the values of tolerance and equality, i would like to point out the crucial role of the fundamental rights agency. the agency, together with national equality bodies, must include the transversal gender equality and women’s rights perspective in all aspects of their multiannual frameworks and subsequent activities. i am fully aware that the challenge ahead involves the joint responsibility of the european institutions and member states by using all the instruments and policies at their disposal. however, on the other hand, the responsibility for effective inclusion becoming a reality lies both with ethnic minorities and with mainstream society. to conclude, i would like to thank all my colleagues from the committee on women’s rights and gender equality for the fruitful discussions we have had on this dossier. i have, however, been rather surprised that during the drafting process of this report, national considerations have been interfering with its overall objective, which is to work towards improved cooperation between european, national and international players, together with the respective ethnic minority communities, and to deliver positive changes. the recent events in france, and france’s policies towards the roma population, are actually a good example of how we are not looking at problems from the right perspective, and how we are not addressing the issue properly. only through an integrated and cooperative approach with targeted strategies for the most vulnerable, especially women, will we manage to make integration within our european society a reality for all citizens, for all women, regardless of their legal status, race, age, sexual orientation, ethnic origin and religion.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur also. it has been said that the ageing population has a significant impact on social protection and public finance. within the overall context of demographic change, women are traditionally at greater risk of poverty and limited pensions. therefore, it is vital that we policymakers should be kept aware of the issue and the concerns of older people – especially women – in order to ensure that they are not marginalised. in this regard, it is necessary to continue fostering our efforts, both at eu and national level, towards the full use of existing instruments and future measures in the areas of pensions policy, health and long-term care policy, employment policy, migration and integration policy and infrastructure development. this is an issue that we have to discuss more often in this house.
in bulgaria, the roma problem is huge. the hundreds of thousands of roma living in our country are being kept in poverty by the gypsy barons. these barons have the opportunity to be the heads of huge organized crime groups at the expense of the misery of the other roma. all bulgarian citizens who fall victim to roma crime suffer from this. before bulgaria joined the eu, there was much criticism of our modest integration opportunities, caused by a weak economy. but today we see: what? the powerful france, a founding country, a leading economy in the union, cannot cope with the integration of even a few hundred roma. what's left for the poor economy of bulgaria, where hundreds of thousands live. the actions of the french government are not good for anyone. but especially with regard to the european union. the explosions show a double standard, not just towards roma, but towards all bulgarian citizens, which in turn leads to severe disappointment. the expectations of the bulgarians and of ataka as a conservative party are for solidarity in solving these problems. the pan-european action plan announced by mr barroso is necessary because the problem is already pan-european. thank you, sir.
first of all, i would like to urge my colleagues to resist the temptation to use the theme 'the situation of the roma in europe' to achieve short-term political goals and to attack one or another government in europe. this is not a topic for partisan opposition. other than attacks from the left, i haven't heard any specific suggestions. what we need is a long-term strategy for the integration of this minority. i expect, of course, that the member states will respect european legislation and ensure that the free movement of european union citizens is fully implemented, in accordance with the legal and administrative requirements applicable in each member state. it also includes equal rights and obligations, with bold underlining obligations, for every citizen of the union. there must be an individual approach, it cannot be generalized, it cannot be allowed that whole people or groups are judged or condemned because of their ethnic origin or any other minority characteristic. the integration of the roma is not a matter which concerns only one member state, on whose territory this minority has settled over the years. this is a european issue and we need a european solution. we need a strategy drawn up by the european institutions and the member states of the european union, representatives of the roma community and civil society. but if this strategy is not to remain on paper, it must be successfully implemented in practice, and this requires a willingness on both sides. both by the minority and the majority. we must unite on the basis of our common values of tolerance, freedom, security and solidarity to find a balanced response to this enormous challenge facing our continent. and finally, i would like to avoid any implication, direct or indirect, of the schengen connection... (interruption by the president)
madam president, madam commissioner, media freedom is an integral part of the human rights system and cannot be viewed outside the general context of the state of democracy. in bulgaria, as elsewhere, the media operates under strong market pressure. sales are down, advertising is down, new media is increasingly blurring the line between professional journalism and social media. other journalists have fewer and fewer opportunities to express themselves and to practice their profession normally. media with tradition and audience are shutting down. today, for example, we received news that one of the good and serious newspapers in bulgaria, the newspaper "klasa", is going out of business. in this situation, the media becomes heavily dependent not on its readers, but on its benefactors, whether it's business or government, who are tempted to trade media freedom for media comfort. unfortunately, in bulgaria, a large number of publishers have a primary interest in other areas. this creates the conditions for pressure and abuse of editorial policy in return for benefits and good treatment from the government. for its part, the government has systematically demonstrated its disregard for the principle of independence of institutions, including those related to media regulation. it went so far as to purposely ask for written pardons from the media by asking them if they were being pressured. which is a lot of pressure in itself. bulgaria's problems are not unique. they're found in other countries. i wouldn't put all media under one denominator and i wouldn't blame for a minute the good journalists who are often forced to work without permanent contracts or even to seek a change of career. the problem is structural. it's mostly about the self-censorship that's often imposed. and then we have to add the concentration of media distribution, whether it's electronic or printed. recently, the previous commission provided for stamps to preserve and monitor media pluralism. today we have a special need for this to happen. populism and aggression are very tempting, but they never lead to the right decisions. i expect the european commission to be active at this point and to propose a solution. i know that this is a sensitive subject and often not subject to formal measurement, although there are similar rankings. however, the expectations and criteria of the european parliament must be very high. the european union is a democratic society, and the european union is a democratic society.
madam president, the virtues of freedom of expression enshrined in article 11 of the charter of fundamental rights are no longer to be demonstrated. the right to and access to information from a plurality of sources are at the heart of the democratic process. this allows citizens to freely shape their opinions and the media to play its role as a partner in the dialogue between citizens and the authorities. the media are thus characterized by their neutrality, objectivity and accuracy. the time is not far distant when in my country, bulgaria, the media and the press were serving the ideological regime that we all condemned in 1989. twenty years later, there are still some effects, some progress has been made and it is important that we have warnings to help us to remain vigilant and not to lose sight of the essential things. i shall deal with three points here. first, to ensure that freedom of expression and of the media is guaranteed. however, it is a two-way process. freedom must not be at the expense of others. building and working on a bond of trust and mutual respect seems to me an important point in the relationship between the media and individuals. secondly, as the fourth power, the media are subject to democratic control. however, this control must be accompanied by verification of sources and transparency that will avoid the instrumentalization of the media for corporate, commercial, economic or political purposes. reliability of sources, transparency of the income of media owners and objective dissemination of information could only advance our societies. finally, we must bear in mind the role of journalists. respect for professional ethics, independence and respect for fundamental freedoms are valuable indicators for any journalist who wants to be a professional. the aim of the media today is to prevent standardization and to combat the often regrettable consequences of over-information. finally, all freedom excludes subjection. that is why the submission to the laws of the public, to the big monopolies, the depoliticization of important subjects as well as the overpoliticization of social subjects are contrary to the role of the media as vectors of free information and free from any interest other than the common interest.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for his good work on this report, which raises extremely important issues relating to the work of the european institutions and the media. the relationship between the european parliament and the media has always been very delicate and it is essential to seek a balance in the relationship so that both sides can do their jobs effectively. i thank mr løkkegaard and my colleagues from the committee on culture and education for having accepted my two proposals on facilitating the procedure for accrediting journalists in brussels (paragraph 24) and my second proposal on the importance of private broadcasters, who, alongside public broadcasters, are a key source of news about the eu and can help develop the european information flow (paragraph 26) so that it reaches citizens more easily. i am convinced that the european institutions have a role to play in facilitating accreditation of journalists in brussels and in contributing to better cooperation between public and private broadcasters. in this way, we will improve the awareness of european citizens of the work and policies of the european institutions. thank you for your attention.
- thank you. - thank you. my great-grandmother is 69 years old and i've lived with her for a long time. so i know from experience that the best way to care for the elderly is to make sure that they take care of themselves as much as possible. but even those who are in good mental and physical shape for their age face an impossible task. the attack party raised this issue during the previous term, and we will continue to do so. the average pension in bulgaria is just over 100 euros. 100 euros a month, my colleagues. with that money, retirees have to buy medicine, pay their bills, usually finally get food. the reason for this state of affairs is the massive plundering of my country by the three previous governments. this robbery has a name: "mass privatization". and i should note that it was conducted under the auspices of the euro institutions and the international monetary fund. billions of euros of assets were stolen from bulgaria, and now it's no wonder that my country has the lowest pensions in the european union. this tragic situation should serve as a lesson to you as you consider how to care for the elderly.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as the vice-president of the euromed assembly’s committee on energy, environment and water, i had the opportunity to see the concrete and dramatic ecological reality of the jordan river area during a field visit which took place last february. the special report on the situation in the jordan valley, for which i was rapporteur, highlighted the fact that all parties concerned – in particular israel, the palestinian authority and jordan, but also lebanon and syria – must find a common solution to the two most pressing problems: an equal distribution of water that respects the need of all the people in the region, and a healthy and protected environment for the generations to come. the first step identified in our report is that israel and the palestinian authorities have to agree together on common data concerning available water distribution and demographics as a starting point for further negotiations, since both sides as well as independent reports have presented different figures up to now. one of our main conclusions was that, in order to solve the water problem by cooperation, it is necessary to implement plans for a joint administration, decision-making on an equal footing, and the joint management of water resources in the region. i believe that the recommendations in our report match areas where the european union has a real expertise and could be involved as an active player, paving the way for future partnership between the parties involved. in conclusion, i would like to remind you that, while efforts are being made to resume the discussion towards an overall peace agreement, we have the responsibility not to use the situation in the jordan valley for political and ideological purposes. i hope our debate today will serve the interests of all parties in the region and lead to concrete and unbiased conclusions for an active involvement of the union towards future sustainable solutions.
the european union is a responsible partner and, in its foreign policy, shares responsibility for what is happening in the world. as a donor in financing development projects in the middle east and an active participant in the middle east peace process, the european union and in particular the european parliament must define its strategy and possible contribution to the restoration of the jordan river so that it retains its importance as a source of life for the region. just months ago, friends of the earth, a middle east-based non-governmental organization, warned that the jordan river could dry up within a year if countries in the region do not take action. the decline in the river level has implications for the overall climate and landscape of the region. the situation is a real threat to the livelihood of the population of the region, where irrigation is difficult. beyond the purely pragmatic view of these problems, let us not forget that the jordan river is a powerful spiritual symbol. the balance between values and pragmatism is a hallmark of the european union. in this sense, let us continue to be responsible politicians and show once again our unique european approach by taking care of the jordan river.
on behalf of the s&d group. dear commissioner, i would like to use this debate to appeal to the governments of the member states where there are still various restrictions on the labour market for bulgarian and romanian citizens to remove them as soon as possible. the reasons for this are not only linked to the principles of the european union, one of which is the free movement of people. from an economic standpoint, the open labor market provides much higher value on the one hand, this is due to the increased supply of specialists in areas where there is a lack of willing personnel on the national market. i can give an example of bulgarian doctors and health workers who work in regions where the member states simply do not have their own staff available. this creates a problem in the bulgarian remote regions, but solves the problems of, for example, the english or french regions. this means less spending and better public services for taxpayers. in the field of economics, the new member states usually employ either highly qualified specialists that every economy would like to use, or workers who fill labour market gaps, increase competitiveness and prevent the export of businesses outside the european union. the argument that citizens from the new eu member states are displacing local workers with lower wages is completely unfounded and populist. a bulgarian citizen who goes to work in another country needs funds for housing, for the maintenance of his family, to send his children to school. he's also trying to save up for the prospect of returning home one day. then there is the problem of the language barrier. how low a salary this citizen would agree to work for is a myth for internal use. this is also confirmed by the european commission data, according to which migrant workers from the new member states have increased from 0.2 to 0.5 per cent of the population of the old member states since the enlargement of the european union. there is clearly no wave of migration, but the problem is that there are far fewer migrant workers from member states than from third countries. restrictions on the labour market cannot be justified by objective arguments. equal market opening leads to much more transparency, brings economic benefits and is beneficial for the social systems of the member states. we expect the commission, commissioner, to monitor the process very closely and to inform the member states of the benefits of opening up the market.
mr president, the commission report clearly points out that labour supply and demand determine the volume and direction of the workers, rather than any restrictions on the labour market. furthermore, it states that future immigration flows to the eu from bulgaria and romania are highly unlikely. these restrictions stimulate the creation of bad practices, due to the vulnerability of the illegal workers who are easily exploitable. as commissioner de gucht said, this flow of people would not change if it was made official, but the result would be that they would pay social contributions and taxes. post-enlargement flows from bulgaria and romania have also been significantly outnumbered by recent immigration of non-eu nationals. obviously non-discrimination and freedom of movement are fundamental rights for every european union worker, and it is an unfortunate fact that some eu member states, as pointed out in the report, have decided not to comply with these basic principles. i should like to stress something which is quite important: tolerating second-class eu citizenship calls into question the integrity of the union as a whole.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the european union and the single european market, we cannot support artificially created restrictions on the exercise of the guaranteed right of every citizen of the union to work in another member state without being discriminated against on grounds of nationality, which would be a gross violation of the labour market for bulgarian and romanian citizens. in the spirit of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, we must prevent the creation of a separate category, as my colleague mr kirillov has said, we do not want to be second-class citizens of the european union. and that is why we must remove the temporary restrictions on the free movement of bulgarian and romanian workers. in this context, i call on the commission to propose concrete measures to make significant progress towards greater opening of labour markets by member states to regular workers from bulgaria and romania, without prejudice to the provisions of local labour legislation in the relevant european countries. recent events in europe, with the migration of the roma minority from our two countries, taking advantage of the freedom of movement to seek a better future, clearly show that it is time for the commission to act. in view of the proven positive effect of post-enlargement mobility and the more efficient functioning of the internal market, i call on the commission to propose a set of convincing actions to encourage member states to make changes in labour market policy and to commit national governments not to prolong the current restrictions on bulgarian and romanian nationals. in conclusion, i would like to stress that for the existence of the most powerful driving force of european integration, namely european citizens, any basis for discrimination in employment relations must be eliminated.
ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has always emphasised its role as the voice of the european citizens in its work. i think most of us would agree that discrimination on any grounds has no place in the european union, the kind of union we want to see, the kind of union we want our children to grow up in. the restrictions on workers from bulgaria and romania, although legally justified by the accession treaties of both countries, are in essence discrimination on grounds of nationality. we cannot talk about unequal treatment of roma and at the same time turn a blind eye to the different treatment of workers in two full-fledged member states of the union. i agree with what my colleagues have said: the studies and recommendations of the european commission do indeed prove that the effect of the expansion of labour markets is positive and beneficial for the overall development of the european single internal market. however, the fact remains that the ten member states still retain limited access to their labour markets until 2013. ladies and gentlemen, europe is at a crossroads and we must choose which way to go. towards more or less integration. for me, the direction is clearly one towards a united and strong europe, but this path also passes through the clear will of all of us to respect the fundamental european values, which is the free movement of people and workers. i sincerely hope that protectionism does not prevail in shaping national policies, because together we will be much stronger in the world than we are apart. i would like to call on the european commission, with the support of the european parliament, to work more actively and more decisively with the countries that still impose restrictions, so that they can be removed early. this will also help, i believe, to speed up the recovery of the european economy from the crisis, so that we can all look citizens in the eye with a clear conscience and tell them that in the european union, in the 21st century, there is no discrimination.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, it is clear that bulgaria and romania have refuted the fears of europeans about massive labour flows that would threaten labour markets. european commission statistics show that less than 1% of bulgarians are looking for work in the old member states. even amidst a severe financial and economic crisis and new fears of a jobless boom, the trend has not changed. clearly, workers would migrate to wherever labour is needed, and the figures show that in some of these ten countries unemployment is higher than in bulgaria and romania. maintaining the restrictions stimulates the shadow economy and undeclared work. did you know that in the netherlands alone there's been an 8% increase in bulgarians and romanians working underground and that's tolerated by employers, by the dutch, because it reduces their costs. not to mention seasonal workers with no employment contracts, no social rights. restrictions will not solve the problem of unemployment in europe. i am sure, commissioner, that the european commission has mechanisms in place to lobby the ten countries to review the restrictions on bulgarian and romanian workers. yes, you referred to the contracts, and that's true. but let's not forget that the contracts were signed in a different situation, and now it's a new one and its name is crisis. it is high time for a new discussion in the council on this issue and you could initiate it. we expect you to not only be our allies, but to offer concrete action. you are watching over the community treaty and do not allow the double standards to be applied to bulgaria and romania, which are obviously trends and are being heard even in this chamber.
i want to continue what the previous two colleagues who spoke before me have said, particularly with regard to the new powers that national parliaments have under the lisbon treaty to intervene when they consider that an act does not comply in particular with the principle of subsidiarity. it was one of the good aspects of the lisbon treaty, it was very much publicized, but now it's time to see if it was just a populism to win more public support for the lisbon treaty. if you were really honest when you said that national parliaments should have a role in determining whether an act complies with the principle of subsidiarity, then a procedure should now be developed whereby national parliaments can come together, can act together. because requiring two-thirds of national parliaments to decide against an act because it does not meet the subsidiarity requirement is a very high majority. and now, in order to really apply this principle, we really need to build a single procedure for all national parliaments to follow. only then can the standard be applied effectively. i therefore call on the belgian presidency, which will be hosting the cosac conference of national parliaments, to take the necessary measures in this direction.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the main reason for drawing up this report is that turkey is one of the european union's most important trading partners. according to official statistics, turkey is the 17th largest economy in the world and the 6th in europe, as well as the 7th largest trade and economic partner of the european union. trade in goods between the european union and turkey reached its highest level of eur 100 billion per year in 2008. in this regard, the main emphases and action guidelines set out in this report of the committee on international trade could be summarised in several points: first, although the customs union in force since 1996 has been an undeniable success for economic and trade integration between the european union and turkey, there are still non-tariff barriers, an overly complex bureaucratic system and burdensome procedures that turkey needs to overcome immediately. second, the commission should continue its engagement and dialogue with turkey in the field of trade, in particular within the joint consultative committee and the joint committee on customs union. the more effective use of these platforms is necessary to resolve the remaining problems quickly. turkey should end its discriminatory practices towards foreign companies by granting a 15% price advantage to turkish participants in public procurement tenders. the european union has concluded free trade agreements with third countries with which turkey has not yet been able to conclude such agreements. this has a negative impact on the turkish economy by allowing unilateral privileged access to the turkish market for the european union's partners. recognising the difficulties faced by turkey in concluding such agreements, the commission and the council are invited to ensure that turkey is included in studies to assess the impact of forthcoming free trade agreements to be concluded with third countries, as well as to transmit information on the position of the european union and the state of play of negotiations on such agreements. the commission also notes that the turkish authorities have not provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have not provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have not provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have not provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have not provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have not provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have not provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have not provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have not provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have not provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have not provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have provided any evidence that the turkish authorities have provided any evidence that the necessary evidence. the commission has also received comments from the turkish authorities, which have not provided any evidence to support its view that the measures taken by the turkish authorities are in line with the union's policy on intellectual property rights. sixth, turkey is an influential regional power and plays a highly important role in the black sea and caucasus region, the mediterranean basin, the middle east and central asia. these regional platforms can be of great benefit to the european union, as they provide access to new markets, create new opportunities that will contribute to strengthening economic ties between the european union and these regions. seventh, it should be noted that the low participation of women in the labour market and their employment in the informal economy is a major labour market challenge facing turkey and that it should therefore place women's employment at the centre of its economic and social policy. the commission and the council should review visa procedures that restrict the movement of turkish businessmen and truck drivers and create barriers to trade. at the same time, the commission must monitor whether member states comply with the judgments of the court of justice of the european union on this matter. the report also includes other aspects on which a compromise was reached between the political groups in the european parliament, but i also took the liberty of making two amendments relating to the updating of statistics on poverty and unemployment in turkey, and a brief comment on the referendum in support of constitutional reform, which is expected to support the process of democratisation in turkey and lead to a more effective application of the free market principles. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the forthcoming debate in the plenary will reflect the same spirit of cooperation and constructivity that we witnessed during the debate in the committee on international trade.
member of the commission. − mr president, it is clear from what has been said that there is great consensus around this report. i would just like to say a couple of words on the following subjects: the problems faced by turkey in concluding free trade agreements with europe’s partners; the visa issue; and intellectual property rights (ipr) enforcement. to begin with the last point, ipr enforcement and counterfeiting have been mentioned repeatedly during the debate. i am also concerned and the commission will continue to press on these issues. after more than two years of repeated requests, turkey finally accepted recently to set up a working group to discuss ipr issues. this is a positive first step and i hope that this working group will help in making progress on these important issues. secondly, on the problems faced by turkey in concluding free trade agreements, turkey has been saying for years that it is suffering negative effects because of the difficulties of entering into ftas with some of the eu’s fta partners. however, it should be highlighted that the number of critical fta difficulties is very limited. furthermore, despite repeated requests made by the commission services, turkey has failed to submit relevant data that demonstrate the alleged negative effects on the turkish economy. moreover, it should be noted that the commission has been acting fully within the customs union agreement and has even been going beyond its obligations already by helping turkey in starting fta negotiations with its fta partners. we are ready to further reflect with turkey on ways to address turkish concerns in this respect; whether that would involve the turkish government being invited to the table of the european commission in negotiating fta agreements with third countries is of course a strictly different matter. as for visa issues, these are not covered by the customs union. the commission is considering modalities to engage in a process to further simplify the mobility of people between the eu and turkey, in particular by a swift implementation of the new eu visa code, which will provide practical improvements for turkish visa applicants. the commission will also underline that it is committed to engage in a dialogue that may lead to further improvement of mobility once the council has given its green light to do so. however, having the eu-turkey readmission agreement finalised will be a requirement for this.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs and commissioner de gucht for the extremely positive recommendations and opinions which have been useful for the debate on the report on trade and economic relations with turkey. i think we can conclude from this discussion that indeed the relations between turkey and the european union in trade and economic terms are extremely important for both sides and the need for their further development is undeniable. i think the question that some of my colleagues have asked whether these relations are linked to turkey's possible membership of the european union, my position is that the deeper and more successful the trade and economic relations are, the more successful the accession negotiations will be. of course, turkey and the european union have a long way to go before the customs union can be fully implemented and applied, but i think that the requirement here is for the same good faith and fair treatment on the part of the european union and turkey. i would like to thank once again all those who have taken part in this discussion and i think that these problems which have been raised will be carefully considered by the commission and it will indeed be possible, within the consultative mechanism of the customs union, for all the remaining problems to receive a new impetus, a new direction and a new spirit in view of their recent resolution.
i want to bring to your attention the case of a gross violation of the human rights of a bulgarian citizen accused of committing a crime. mario abdel ghani el makusi is a palestinian father and pharmacy student who was arrested on 7 june at his home in sofia and taken to the district office of the ministry of interior for allegedly participating in a fight. according to two witnesses, at the time of the incident in question, mario was at home and also shopping at a grocery store, which was captured on six security cameras at the store. the boy was placed on a permanent non-deviation detention order for 70 days. during this period, the police refused to review the store's security camera footage and refused to question witnesses who were with the boy at his home at the same time and away from the scene of the incident. i believe that the whole case against this young man and his family is an unprecedented action that in the last year has become a practice in bulgaria. therefore, i am of the opinion that the arrest by the internal affairs authorities of an innocent man on the basis of presumption and his detention without irrefutable evidence for 70 days cannot be justified. i'm calling for more transparency in the work of the ministry of interior and the prosecutor's office.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, it has only been 1.5 years since the interruption in january 2009 of gas supplies along the russia-ukraine-eu route. bulgaria was the country most affected, and the whole eu understood how vulnerable the countries of central and eastern europe were in terms of security of gas supply. i therefore welcome the adoption of the report by mr vidal quadras, which represents a legislative pan-european response to the emergence and consequences of such gas crises. in addition to the fullness of the legislative resolution on security of gas supply, i would like to emphasise the following: - the construction of an integrated eu gas transmission network, in which the two-way movement of gas between individual countries is ensured; - the guarantee of cross-border access to storage facilities and the maintenance of cross-border gas transmission in cases where the highest crisis level "emergency situation" is triggered. for my country, bulgaria, meeting these requirements means finally building links with neighbouring countries, expanding the possibilities of gas storage on the territory of the country, but also creating an alternative to our dependence on a single external gas supplier. yes, this new eu legislation provides for the end of the monopoly of gazprom's supplies to our country and this should happen in the next four years. thank you for your attention.
mr. chairman, i rise to speak pursuant to rule 175 (2) of the rules of procedure and request that this report be referred back to committee for reconsideration. my reasons are as follows: the rapporteur, mr kazak, is in a conflict of interest, since he completed his university studies at the sorbonne at the expense of the turkish government, and in that situation i believe that the report he has drawn up is not objective and that he should be returned to the committee and a new rapporteur should be appointed to draw up a report which is objective and accurate. and so i'm appealing to my colleagues to support me in this request to return the proposal to committee.
mr president, point 2 says: 'a request for referral back to committee may be made by a political group or by at least 40 members of the european parliament'. please ask to see if my proposal has the support of 40 mps and then we will see if we can move forward with the report.
madam president, i naturally voted against the kazak report because i have presented my arguments to the house. i cannot vote for a report written by a reporter who owes virtually all of his education, huge sums of money, directly funded for him by the turkish government. that is a conflict of interest for me, that is to say that the report was not objectively drawn up, and that is why i voted against it. and more than that. we see that there are points in this report that have nothing to do with trade or the economy. this report talks about and boasts of the latest amendment to the turkish constitution, which to me is nothing more than a triumph of the islamists over the people who want turkey to be a secular state. yes, alas, it was the military that - and the judicial system, let me add - guaranteed turkey's secular character. turkey is drifting, more and more, in an islamist direction, and i voted against this report because i do not agree with praising this situation.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me first thank linda mcavan for the incredible intelligence with which she has tackled this very technical dossier, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, the commission and the council for the fruitful cooperation which has been crucial in reaching this first reading agreement, paving the way towards a safer, more efficient and more transparent pharmacovigilance system in europe. as shadow rapporteur for the alde group, i very much welcome this agreement concluded under the spanish presidency, and the fact that parliament’s position remains firmly included in the final text. one may say that we are dealing today with a less exciting dossier within the pharma package, but pharmacovigilance is actually crucial in ensuring observance of some of the key principles which have guided the alde position towards patients’ trust in pharmaceutical treatments. the development and smooth functioning of eudravigilance, collecting adverse drug reactions at the larger european scale, as well as the better coordination with national authorities and pharmaceutical companies, are major steps towards making sure risks relating to the use of medicinal products are duly assessed in a timely manner. patient safety will also be reinforced, with the possibility for authorities to request efficacy studies after a product has been authorised on the market. for the first time here, we will be able to use health technology assessment in order to avoid putting patients’ lives at risk. transparency has been one of parliament’s guiding principles during the negotiations. while avoiding any misuse of the information available, more transparent communication about pharmacovigilance activities will enhance patients’ trust in their treatment, as well in the authorities that guarantee their safety. to conclude, the changes made to the pharmacovigilance system in europe should be a tool to reinforce european citizens’ confidence and understanding of the medicines they are taking. in this regard, i very much welcome the call for a broader and complete review of the patient information leaflet. we have a public health responsibility to guarantee the highest level of safety, efficiency and transparency in the future european pharmacovigilance system to be implemented.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mountain areas are found in most of the member states of the european union and mountains are a major component of the european geography. in bulgaria, for example, the population living in mountain areas is almost as large as the population living in lowland areas. the many environmental, social and territorial issues associated with these areas therefore merit close attention by the european legislator. environmentally, with its rich ecosystem, its diversity and its impressive size, european mountains provide ideal conditions for the development and conservation of exceptional biodiversity. but fragile mountain ecosystems are particularly sensitive and vulnerable to changes caused by the impact of human activity. the european union must be able to make the best and most responsible use of the economic and environmental advantages of mountain regions. these objectives can be achieved by financing and promoting environmentally sound and efficient activities such as high mountain agriculture, traditional livestock farming in alpine regions and integrated forest management. i am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that these measures will lead to very positive results in terms of the territorial and economic cohesion of the european union.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the discussion on financial supervision today has shown that most of us have the will and the determination to make serious reforms in the field of economic governance for the good of europe. the most effective measure against all kinds of crises is prevention. by approving the reports on the independent european supervisors today, we are investing in exactly that - a better basis for effective supervision of financial and non-financial institutions, which will ultimately ensure higher and more sustainable security for the financial system and significantly minimise the likelihood of future crises. i thank all my fellow rapporteurs and am pleased that the european parliament has firmly defended its position on the independence and powers of these supervisory authorities, and has made them into systems that will really improve the regulations currently in place, because we all have a duty to protect the best interests of the european citizens we represent by providing an adequate framework for crisis risk management.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, any armed conflict has disastrous consequences. but a conflict as long as that of the congo, an army made up partly of children, rape as one of the main weapons of war, all this shows that we are facing the most complete denial of the rule of law. the most recent example was on 28 july when gang rapes were committed in north kivu. for years, the psychological, physical and social destruction of women has been part of the lives of thousands of congolese. it is time to sound the alarm, because what is happening is a generalization and normalization of rape of civilians, outside of conflict zones. the fight against the culture of impunity must be the priority. at local and national level, better communication with the population is a must, because without the real involvement of civil society, decisions and measures taken will constantly be met with mistrust by the population. the congolese must at all costs feel that they are agents of change. on the other hand, we must also ensure that the former criminals in the security forces and in the state institutions do not become the new judges. the next elections in 2011 are an opportunity for new projects to be launched. the establishment of a parliamentary committee on human rights, the continuation of the reform of the judiciary, with particular emphasis on the protection of victims, the fight against corruption, and special attention to the benefits of mining and trade in minerals are major challenges. at european and international level, and in the light of recent events, a reassessment and review of the human, technical and financial resources deployed in the context of eusec and eupol is required. a thorough review of the instruments to support the restructuring of the institutional, legal and economic system and better coordination with the un instruments will enable the country to stabilise in a lasting way. without the defence of human rights and the rule of law, a republic is only democratic in name. let us make sure that this does not continue, because in the end it is democracy itself that is being attacked.
mr president, we cannot avoid focusing our attention today on the situation of women in congo. we all know that women and children are the most vulnerable population groups in conflict zones, and that women are the ones suffering the most from the devastating consequences of the current events. rape is becoming uncontrolled in congo, as my colleague says. it is used as a weapon of war to terrorise, attack, destroy and humiliate the civilian population. it would simply be unacceptable, a moral failure on our part, to close our eyes and ignore the situation. we have been talking too long without any efficient action. i sincerely hope that the eu and member states will be able to specifically address this issue in their future action concerning the situation in congo. we should prioritise help and support services at local level by means of the eu’s humanitarian and development assistance. unfortunately, the use of rape as a weapon of war is a shameful crime that is not only happening in congo. i firmly believe that combating sexual violence against women and girls in conflict zones has to be a top priority of our eu foreign affairs and humanitarian policies.
member of the commission. − mr president, cross-border cooperation has been one of the main innovations under the instrument for european neighbourhood policy. back in 2006, we adopted a regulation which, for the first time, saw the full transposition of eu cross-border cooperation experience in an external relations environment. we wanted the new programmes to be jointly designed and jointly managed by member states and partner countries. we wanted to fully involve local actors and ensure that projects were jointly selected and implemented. we saw this as a way of empowering local authorities, promoting local development and ultimately strengthening local democracy. we never said that this was going to be easy. we never said that this was going to be quick. borders are basic elements of sovereignty. the benefits of cross-border cooperation and the way it works had to be explained to partner countries and its implementation mechanisms adapted to take into account their administrative and legal constraints. a way around sensitive foreign policy issues had to be found, and this was not always possible. it was not possible to persuade morocco to participate in programmes for which ceuta and melilla were eligible. it was not possible to persuade azerbaijan to participate in the black sea programme alongside armenia. it was not possible to find a way to overcome the political and technical obstacles which led russia to decide not to participate in the baltic sea programme. this is regrettable, but as you can see we are confronted here with long-standing policy issues reflecting core national interests. but the glass is more than half full. as we speak, we have 13 programmes operational. they cover the entire european union land border, the sea crossing between italy and tunisia and the three big sea basins that the eu shares with its neighbours: the black sea, the baltic sea and the mediterranean sea. russia has also agreed to co-finance the programmes in which it participates with over 100 million euros. under all of these programmes we have now launched calls for proposals for an amount of 275 million euros. the response to these calls for proposals has not been poor. on the contrary, it has been excellent. we are receiving hundreds of applications; almost six times more than we can finance. 598 proposals were submitted under the meda programme alone. we expect that the funds will start to flow to the beneficiaries soon and we foresee no absorption problems. the commission is now in the process of undertaking a mid-term review of the cross-border cooperation strategy paper and the indicative programme. there are a number of adjustments we need to make, including to the budget. firstly, the two programmes between spain and morocco will be cancelled. the european regional development component of the budget will go back to spain to be used by spain in accordance with the structural funds regulation. the enpi component has been reallocated to other enpi programmes in the southern neighbourhood. secondly, we are considering reducing the enpi allocation to the baltic sea programme. this may provide some extra funds to increase the budget of other sea basin programmes. given the small amount involved, we do not expect equivalent matching funds from the european regional development fund. i understand you have concerns about duplication of financing between cross-border cooperation and other enpi programmes. we will also review that aspect, but i have to say that the risk is small because (a) the cbc programmes have a clear territorial focus and (b) we systematically screen all the selected projects to avoid that problem. the commission is about to start a reflection on the enpi with a view to the legislative proposal for a revised regulation that it intends to table in late 2011. in this context, we will consult practitioners and stakeholders to see what shortcomings have been identified and how they can best be addressed. in conclusion, implementing the enpi cross-border cooperation component has been an enormous challenge. we have lived up to it and we are about to see the results. i am persuaded that it will be a success. we have encountered difficulties that have caused delays, but we need to remember that these difficulties were mostly related to difficult foreign policy issues rather than implementation problems. we are about to review the way enpi works, and there we share the same goal. the commission, as much as the european parliament, wants to have programmes that are easier to prepare and can be implemented faster. the commission is ready to work in close consultation with the practitioners, the stakeholders and the european parliament to that effect.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, ensuring a stable and prosperous neighbourhood is the first priority of european foreign policy. it is in its neighbourhood that the eu can best exercise its soft stabilising power. it is also there that it needs to assess strategies and possibly replace them with other more relevant forms of engagement. according to the enpi regulation, the objective of the instrument is to provide community assistance for the development of an area of prosperity and good neighbourliness. however, the enpi should reflect better the needs and challenges. if the eu wants to be seen not just as a cash cow, but as a real regional power, it will also need to prove itself able to help resolve conflicts through this work and in the neighbourhood. stability and prosperity are periodically threatened by the resurgence of unresolved conflicts. these undermine to a great extent the eu’s multilateral initiatives, both in the east – for instance in the caucasus – and in the south – the middle east and western sahara, for example. the eu’s ambition to resolve and step up its role should be realised, and tailor-made assistance in these regions should be directed at confidence building and reconciliation as well. the focus on bilateral relations has made it difficult for the union to act as a mediator in conflicts. the eu should really focus more on multilateral cooperation, no matter how difficult it is, as commissioner füle stated. the regional approach should be stronger and more visible. it should be combined also with enhanced cooperation among the partner countries themselves, especially among the neighbouring ones. for example, the degree of cooperation integration in the eu eastern neighbourhood is quite low. there are reasons for this, there are difficulties with this, but we should act together to overcome them. the cbc black sea initiative seems not to be enough to address all this. the definition of the cross-border cooperation aim is to promote economic and social development in border areas, address common challenges, ensure efficient and secure borders and promote people-to-people cooperation. better coordination should also be ensured between the enpi and the cross-border cooperation programmes and the national enpi action plan. there should be careful consideration about the real added value of every enpi initiative, otherwise the eu risks getting involved, and even getting lost, in the obligation and overlapping, which currently happens often with a number of community programmes. commissioner füle has given us some reassurances in this respect. consultation of stakeholders and closer work with the committee on regional development in parliament should help. we should work together for more effective and visible results.
i would like to welcome mrs fillon's report and the european commission's proposal to lift the visa regime with albania and bosnia and herzegovina. practice shows that visas are unfortunately not always effective enough to stop illegal immigration and organised crime. it is ordinary people, and especially young people, who bear the brunt of the travel restrictions. this prevents future citizens of the european union from seeing and feeling all that we have achieved together in europe, and from meeting and befriending their european peers. i want to say to all the critics we just heard that since we have visa-free regime with macedonia, with montenegro and serbia, there are no negative consequences of this visa-free regime. the european union is committed to the western balkans for a clear european perspective. let's make our way out of this commitment and give these countries visa-free travel. of course, we cannot compromise on measures against organised crime, money laundering, human trafficking and drugs. it is important to deepen legal and administrative reform and to improve the rule of law in these countries. no one in europe should feel isolated and closed off from the possibility of travelling. the european union is founded on values that we share with our neighbours and with the countries on the path of european integration. i am glad that we are opening our doors to albanians and bosnians, who one day are expected to be citizens of the european union. the abolition of the visa regime for the western balkans will benefit the security and freedom of the citizens of these countries as well as the european union as a whole. kosovo should also be included in the visa liberalisation process. after the lifting of restrictions on albania and bosnia and herzegovina, citizens of kosovo remain the only citizens in the balkans who require a visa to travel to europe. despite the differences we have in the european union on kosovo, kosovo should get a road map from european leaders on visa-free travel. i believe that this will give us a chance to reduce the ethnic tensions in the balkans and to ensure that the balkans are never again the historical powder keg of europe, but become an example of respect for the law, of civil liberties and of ensuring prosperity.
this topic is very important to me, because five of the six bulgarian regions are among the top 10 poorest regions in the european union. this is because those who led bulgaria on its path to the european union lied to the bulgarian people that the moment bulgaria enters the european union, billions of euros of funds will rain down on our country. we all know that's not true. these people hoped to put their representatives in key positions, who could collect the respective commissions from the absorption of the euro funds. and now that the bulgarian people have thrown these people out of power, there are currently no people who can step up and take over so that bulgaria can effectively absorb european funds. an unpleasant admission, colleagues - bulgaria is a new country. it can't compete with france, with germany, with the old founding countries. we need your know-how so that these policies, these funds, reach the people for whom they are intended and we really have a cohesion policy.
mr president, we all agree that the cohesion policy has had a very positive impact so far. this is visible and recognisable. however, there are different ideas for the post-2013 cohesion policy. we should further develop and adapt it to the new challenges and realities by building on its achievements and not by totally transforming the policy. this is equally important both for its basic principles and for the future budget. we need actions and they must be supported by adequate resources from the eu and national budgets. the committee on budgets has recently stressed that an effort will be made to avoid big losers as far as future allocations from the structural funds are concerned. i strongly hope that the new member states will not fall into the category of big losers. therefore, cutting money for cohesion cannot be an option in any way. it is not only a financial issue, but it will negatively affect the principles of solidarity.
this morning, activists from some environmental organization took the liberty of attacking 16 of the 27 national flags of the european union. fellow citizens, whatever the idea, whatever the cause, i believe and i am sure that you will support me. it is unacceptable to commit assaults on national symbols. moreover, assaulting the bulgarian flag is a crime according to the bulgarian penal code and the guilty person must be handed over to the relevant authorities. you agree that whatever the cause, it is unacceptable to attack the national symbols of the member states.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on budgets. - i too would like to congratulate mrs gräßle, mr rivellini and mr rapkay on the enormous work they have done. we are very clear that the creation of the european diplomatic service is a complex political process in which the balance of interests and the representation of the member states must be balanced, while at the same time enabling the office to work strongly and to make europe a key player on the international scene. at the same time, i would also like to express my regret that the proposal for geographical balance, supported by a majority in the afet and budg committees, and which, i would like to point out, is in line with the european parliament's resolution of 8 july 2010, has not been adequately reflected in the rapkay report. that is why, mrs ashton, i am addressing you as the person who has perhaps the greatest interest in the motivation and energy of the whole european union, and i trust that you will find a way to make this geographical balance adequately represented in your office. to the good hour!
today is the last sitting of our parliament, where we discuss the structure, the funding, the general framework for the functioning of the european external action service. as from tomorrow, when we are about to adopt the final decisions, we will expect real results and, of course, i am confident, as the debate is going on today, that the european parliament will be the european institution that will help, guide and give its ideas so that the new office is really effective and succeeds in building a more active, more visible role for the european union on the international scene. in fact, the european external action service is perhaps the most visible result of the lisbon treaty, and all of us who supported that treaty would like to see the service as a successful project. let me say that you, mrs. ashton, have inherited a highly unbalanced administration and unfortunately it appears that the main criticisms have somehow been directed at you. in fact, at the beginning of this year, since you were high representative and vice-president, the new member states have had only one head of mission of the european union. i want to categorically oppose the thesis that qualification is contrary to geographical balance. on the contrary, i believe that geographical balance goes hand in hand with higher qualifications and we therefore hope that your commitment will be realised in the future.
in the light of the european union's fundamental principle of solidarity and in the context of the european year against poverty, i call for the introduction of guaranteed levels of adequate minimum income in all member states of the union to help people with insufficient income to strengthen their economic and social integration and support for a decent life. only through concrete measures aimed at introducing minimum income schemes will we be able to make significant and effective progress in the fight against poverty and guarantee an adequate standard of living for all european citizens, including social security and equal access to social functions of the state such as social assistance, healthcare and education. in conclusion, i would like to stress that only through a rich set of concrete policy solutions that provide the means for social intervention and protection will we protect our citizens from social exclusion, especially women and groups at risk, as well as ethnic minorities.
as my colleagues have already mentioned, the budget of the european union for 2010 is being adopted under a new procedure, on which the european parliament and the council must seek common agreement. the european parliament took this feature fully into account. in the discussions in the committee on budgets we took a very responsible approach and did not do what is most common for every member of parliament in every parliament - to ask for more funds, by coming into conflict with the representatives of the executive. on the contrary, we have taken into account that in the context of an economic crisis, in which national budgets are under constant pressure to limit, the budget of the european union should set an example in this respect. the call of the member states, which coincides with that of european citizens, is to seek all possibilities for thrift and increased efficiency in the spending of public funds. we've looked at all the possibilities for increasing efficiency. the result is what we suggested. for the first time, the european parliament has been given such responsibility from the very beginning of the budget debate. at the same time, i expect the council to reconsider its position. we must not forget that increased efficiency has its limits. reducing funds means reducing political ambition. what signal is the council sending by proposing a drastic reduction in the appropriations referred to in paragraph 1a? it is these funds that go to innovation, to smart growth, which is also at the heart of all national recovery programmes and the europe 2020 strategy. how can these goals be achieved while cutting back on the budget? this means that we are giving up a number of european priorities. when are we being honest with the european citizens? when the council solemnly announces new policies, assigns new tasks to the european institutions or when it does not agree to allocate funds? in recent years, the european budget has become less and less of a part of the union's economy. at the same time, the tasks assigned to the european union are more numerous. the budget is therefore a key instrument for achieving certain policy objectives. he's not an end in himself. the european budget brings added value to taxpayers. it achieves much more than the same funds could achieve if spent by 27 member countries. there can be no direct link between european and national budgets. the current contraction in national budget expenditure is a consequence of the increase in the previous year. this has not happened with the european budget, which is much more stable.
i also want to thank the commission for presenting this document. i think it's going to be a subject of much discussion in the future. there are a number of issues on which i am sure there will be a lively debate in parliament. i want to hit three of them with one sentence. first, there is the question of whether all the policies of the european union can fit under the common europe 2020 cap. we know that it gives rise to very important policies for the european union, and i do not think that the best place for agricultural policy, for example, is in the 'sustainable growth' part, or for cohesion policy in the 'inclusive growth' part. i think they are much broader, they will be a little difficult to fit into the goals that europe 2020 sets itself. secondly, i would like to focus on the principles. one of them is shared, the principle of solidarity, which is undoubtedly very important. but we have to look at the instruments, including the cohesion fund, not just as solidarity but as more convergence, and we know that this has a very important economic effect, which is not just moral, but is actually linked to economic outcomes. finally, the issue of own resources. this includes the issue of loans from the european union, the guarantee of loans from the european budget, the financing of large projects. i think it's hard to talk about borrowing without being aware of own resources, including topics like working with financial institutions like the european investment bank or using unused funds back into the european budget instead of going back to the member states.
as you mentioned, at the moment bulgaria and romania, which were the last to join the european union in 2007, receive only 40% of the agricultural subsidies that are given to the old member countries like germany, france and others. you have noted that the leveling of subsidies will not take place until 2016, which in a crisis situation puts the two newly admitted countries in a very unequal position and really endangers agriculture and a large part of the population that is engaged in agricultural work. do you not consider that this factor, namely the economic and financial crisis, should not be taken into account in the case of these two member states in particular?
in writing. madam president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to express my condolences to the families of the nine hungarian citizens who died in the accident and my sympathy to all those who were injured. an industrial accident like the one in hungary raises a number of questions for european citizens. as you can imagine, my fellow countrymen in bulgaria are very concerned and are watching closely to see if the danube river water will not be contaminated now or in the future by this heavy metal or other harmful substance incident. commissioner, what is the commission's capacity to build capacity to respond to such situations - prevention, immediate response, risk monitoring, compensation for victims? is the eu able to provide an analysis of the environmental risks arising from the accident in hungary to be submitted as soon as possible? this is not about transferring national responsibilities to the european level, but about the need for the eu to provide certainty to its citizens on issues that go far beyond national citizens.
with the report of the special committee on the crisis, we call above all for a european response, for strong political and intellectual leadership with a european dimension, for deeper integration and for the completion of the single european market for the benefit of european citizens. the compromise we reached on key issues such as the stability and growth pact, its sanctioning mechanisms, the path to structural reforms, budgetary consolidation, the european union's strategic investments was extremely important. priority actions in the field of cohesion policy and smes are particularly important. cohesion policy must be one of the main pillars of our economic policy. it will contribute to the development of energy efficiency and trans-european networks, which in turn will lead to a revival and sustainable growth of the european economy. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are vital to our future development, growth and prosperity. a new definition of smes should be formulated, which will also allow for a more targeted policy to support entrepreneurship and to take real action to reduce the administrative burden and red tape. i sincerely hope that our proposals and recommendations will find expression in concrete action by the european commission and, above all, by the member states, because we have no time to lose and we owe our citizens an adequate and rapid response to emerge faster and stronger from the crisis.
the economic crisis has affected member states with varying intensity. however, the difference does not extend beyond the euro area, as might be expected from an economic point of view. unfortunately, the single currency has not led to economic equalization so far. on the contrary, the euro area countries are much different today than they were when the euro was introduced. this is very dangerous. it is clear that the indicators in the stability and growth pact are not accurate and do not work. therefore, the mechanical imposition of sanctions alone will not lead to positive results. even smaller will be the impact on all 27 member states of the european union. on the contrary, self-serving economic clichés will lead to new problems. the solution is clear: member states must bring their economies as close as possible so that the same measures can achieve the same results everywhere. this means more community policies, more instruments of the european institutions, a higher budget and greater budgetary independence for the european union, including through an increased share of own resources.
in writing. − i wish you success, mrs ashton, and the new eeas, to whom we entrust great hopes of realizing another european dream and of europe having a strong and authoritative single voice in the world. that is what a large part of our parliament wants. rest assured we'll help you. i would like to explain why i voted 'abstained' on the vote on the amendment to the staff regulations of officials of the european communities. i believe that the indicative objectives relating to geographical balance are useful for the new institution. we need a highly skilled diplomatic service with people from all the member states to enrich the eu's representation in the world. i am confident that the office will be successful if it can draw on the experience of all the member states. i understand that since the beginning of the european integration process, membership has increased more than fourfold and it is understandable that the rate of representation of newcomers is lagging at this stage, but there must be the will and the legislative texts to overcome this. i believe in your desire and will, which you have expressed to us on many occasions, to work for a genuine geographical representation of the new office, so that you can be the supreme representative of the whole eu. we'll be monitoring her activities closely.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs – ms brantner, ms gál and ms lochbihler as well as mr mitchell, mr scholz and mr goerens. the proposals before us result from the mid-term review conducted by the commission in 2009 at parliament’s request. that review concluded that the instruments are working well. this is very positive and it gives a stable framework for our external relations until 2013. in some cases, the commission proposed only technical amendments in order to bring them into line with the other instruments. we are glad that we have your support on these technical issues. the big issue identified in the review was parliament’s objections concerning aid under the development cooperation instrument (dci) which could not be considered to be official development assistance. here, the commission took the views of this house fully into account. we tabled a proposal broadening the industrialised countries instrument to cover activities which cannot be eligible as official development assistance. this is about engaging with important bilateral partners and global players with whom the european union has a strategic interest in promoting diversified links, such as india, china or brazil. these countries are also interested in engaging in economic, academic, business and scientific exchanges with the european union. this amended instrument, called ici plus, is a short-term solution for three years. we do not prejudge the future revision of external action financial instruments for the period after 2013. parliament has already approved a budget for this instrument in 2010. in order to implement the budget for 2010, the instrument needs to be adopted now, so i very much welcome the work done by the rapporteurs in finding a large measure of agreement. on the instrument for stability, the commission proposed to include eu action against the proliferation of small arms and light weapons, following the ruling of the court of justice in 2008. we are discussing the issues raised in council and must find an agreed solution. i can also assure you that funding for civil society under the crisis-preparedness component of the stability instrument will further increase this year. moreover, funding is scheduled to double over the years 2011-2013 for the peace-building partnership. this will provide ample scope for funding civil society actions. even more important is the share of 22% for civil society funding under the crisis response budget since 2007. this shows the capacity of ngos in peace-building and crisis response. it is an excellent example of the added value the stability instrument has brought to comprehensive eu action in fragile and conflict-affected countries worldwide. since the proposals concerning the mid-term review, another amendment to the dci was presented on 17 march 2010. the so-called banana accompanying measures have a clear objective: to support the adjustment of 10 acp banana-exporting countries to changing eu import tariffs for bananas. bananas were the subject of the world’s longest-running trade dispute. the eu had to find a solution and conclude an agreement in compliance with wto rules. the banana accompanying measures are an integral part of this agreement and the tariff reductions are already in place. i would very much like to thank again the rapporteur for his very constructive attitude. i think we now have an effective programme that could start as soon as we have adopted it. the tariffs are already in place and the acp countries are urgently looking for the financial support the eu promised during the negotiations. now we come to the most debated issue. committees have all adopted amendments in order to treat strategy papers and multiannual programmes as delegated acts under the new treaty procedure in article 290. as you know, the commission and also the council do not share this point of view. we think these strategy papers and multiannual programmes do not fall within the scope of article 290 since they do not supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of the legislative act. however, we fully agree with the necessity to ensure parliament’s strong involvement in overall strategic decisions. it is also in the interests of us all to ensure that programming can be done in a practical and smooth way. so far parliament has been involved through the democratic scrutiny procedure which was agreed in 2006 as regards the strategic papers and multiannual programming. through these procedures, the commission engages in dialogue with parliament on the content of the strategies. this consultation process goes beyond the strict bounds of comitology. let me be clear, we definitely need to find a solution now. the commission is open to discuss with parliament in order to find a way forward that addresses parliament’s concerns. the three chairpersons last week sent an invitation for an informal meeting between the steering committee in charge of this issue in parliament, the commission and the council. we very much welcome this invitation. the high representative, a representative from the council and myself met the steering group this morning. it was a very fruitful meeting and it very clearly confirms that it is necessary to find a solution in the shortest possible time so as to give full effect to the treaty of lisbon by also respecting pressing practical concerns, not least as regards the budget. i feel confident that we can find a solution if we act together.
president of the council. - mr president, madam high representative, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too, of course on behalf of the council, would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work and involvement. let me add a few words to the comments made by commissioner piebalgs, with which the council of course fully agrees. the commissioner rightly drew attention to the main outstanding issue, namely parliament's wish to see strategy papers and multiannual programmes treated as delegated acts. i do not want to go into the council's position in detail here this afternoon, but i will simply say that the presidency is obviously quite ready to reach an agreement which satisfies the three institutions and which allows us to adopt the financial instruments as quickly as possible. i am thinking here in particular, of course, of the ici+ already mentioned and the accompanying measures in the banana sector. i very much welcome the meeting this morning with the high representative and commissioner piebalgs and the rapporteurs. we consider that this meeting clearly demonstrates the real will of our three institutions to facilitate the achievement of an agreement and the presidency believes that the debate currently taking place on financial instruments should be dissociated, as you know, from the negotiations currently taking place between parliament and the council on comitology and delegated acts. you are aware that the council is still considering these two questions and that any possible solution must, of course, be agreed with your parliament. we must therefore, as an exception, devise a solution specific to financial instruments, given the urgency of their adoption. the belgian presidency will ensure that the work which was requested to be carried out at the end of this morning's meeting progresses rapidly and leads to concrete results which will enable us to reach an agreement as soon as possible. this morning's meeting suggests that parliament fully shares this objective.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on budgets. let me first of all agree fully with the conclusions of mr goerens' report on the need for the development cooperation instrument (dci) and its benefits for european union policies to continue. i also agree that the european union must find a way to continue to support banana-producing countries after the world trade organisation banned the granting of concessions earlier this year. it is strange, however, that the commission has not made an impact assessment of the aid to these 12 countries since 1994, something which must change in the future. what the committee on budgets is demanding, and what we do not agree with, is that funds from other policies should be cut in order to allocate the 190 million euros in question for the next three years. there is a principle that we hold to and it is that new policies should be funded with new funds. this means that such a new policy, although it could have been provided for in the financial framework by the european commission, should have been provided for in the budget and not financed at the expense of other programmes.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the financing instruments for cooperation and development and for the promotion of democracy and human rights must be flexible in order to avoid the kind of deadlock we have already encountered on many occasions. the european union is providing considerable sums. they should not therefore be made inaccessible by overly complex procedures. but in addition to the flexibility afforded to these instruments, i would like to stress the importance of ensuring that small organisations and small structures can also benefit from these aids, because unfortunately we are too often faced with situations today where only large ngos benefit, and for a short period. i believe that giving priority to small ngos over longer periods of time could produce much more substantial results. today there are a large number of small field organisations with a tremendous long-term local impact. they are the agents of change and that is why they must also be able to benefit from this aid.
yes, i'm happy to clarify that. it was evidently an inaccurate translation. the president of ukraine has declared his readiness to continue the process of rapprochement with the european union. however, unfortunately, the eu accession decision of the ukrainian parliament has not become the first priority. (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).)
yes, i'd be happy to answer. i personally, and i don't know why, mrs harmas, but i personally, and also after our participation in the ukrainian summit, am concerned about the signals that are coming from our ukrainian friends about the composition of the central electoral movement commission, about the freedom of the media, about the restriction of ngos. it is all there, and if we express our concerns about it, then in my view the regional elections could be held in a much better atmosphere. we have no objection to going to ukraine next week with our resolution. we have no objection to another resolution, as i said, on economic matters. we certainly have to do that, but these worries about the deterioration of the democratic situation unfortunately, or i mean, we... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, i would say that the quality of the debate today shows that it was not prepared. we did not need this debate and now is not the time to adopt resolutions on ukraine, neither today nor tomorrow. i must remind you that six months ago the country was in freefall and on the verge of falling into chaos. we had political, economic and financial instability – even a deep crisis – but now we have a very different picture. we have to recognise that in the space of a few months the ukraine government has succeeded in bringing the country back to normal; back to political, economic and financial stability. there are problems. we do not deny that. but we must admit that they are listening to our voice; some corrective measures have been taken, for example, on the issues of electoral law and some electoral practices. in this sense, our voice will be heard there as long as we do not cry out on each occasion, but adopt a decent approach to ukraine. that is why i think we are doing a disservice to our parliamentary committee which is going to ukraine in 10 days time; we are doing ourselves a disservice in undermining our own role by adopting such resolutions 10 days before the elections. such a move has never happened before. it is a clear attempt to influence the elections. we should not allow our parliament to be part of this game. therefore, i propose that we postpone the adoption of the resolution, and that we ask our colleagues in the eu-ukraine parliamentary cooperation committee to check with the colleagues there, to discuss those issues … (the chair cut off the speaker).
the european parliament has always supported ukraine on its path towards democracy, based on the rule of law and sharing with us the common values of european integration. in any democracy, elections are like a thermometer. it allows us to assess the quality of the democratic process, the stability of institutions, the maturity of political parties and the opinion of civil society. i welcome the decision of the ukrainian authorities to invite observers to the elections on 31 october. i am confident that their mission will contribute to greater confidence in the electoral process and that their findings will serve to strengthen the transparency and neutrality of the work of the ukrainian institutions. in addition to elections, the constitution as the supreme law of ukraine must guarantee the balance of power and their mutual control. ukraine can count on its european partner to consistently support its efforts for reform and stability. the opinion of the european community and its civil society is an additional incentive and guarantee for the ultimate success.
the challenges facing moldova today, as well as our common goal, are the strengthening of the multiethnic state, its identity, the political solution to the transnistrian problem, moldova's membership in the european union as a separate and independent state. the process of visa liberalisation is of particular importance, and as we have seen in similar cases for the countries of the former yugoslavia, it is yielding good results. the trend towards accelerated simultaneous issuance of bulgarian and romanian passports for moldovan citizens is not a solution to this problem and carries certain risks. at the same time, the chisinau authorities must ensure that the €90 million macro-financial assistance provided by the european union will be felt by all moldovan citizens, regardless of their ethnicity. this is also of particular importance for the bulgarian minority in moldova, which lives in one of the poorest economic areas of the country.
i am pleased that the european parliament is taking its time to discuss the situation in moldova, a country which is essentially european, and in this sense we must say that the governing coalition for european integration has really done a lot on the road to closer ties with the european union and should be highly commended for this. at the same time, citizens expect more results in the field of economic and social development, and this issue is not accidentally becoming a central issue in the current campaign. relations with the european union are not a one-off event, they are a long-term process and moldova's path towards convergence must become an irreversible policy. the failure to change the constitution has led to this situation, to a political instability that risks being repeated again after the current elections. so my appeal to the leading political forces is that regardless of the differences, regardless of the election result, they do what is necessary to guarantee political stability in moldova, which gives them a chance to work in the interests of the citizens and the european future of their country.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with the inauguration of president obama, relations between the european union and the united states of america are entering a new era of sustainable cooperation. the cancun summit, which begins in two weeks, will be a great opportunity for the united states and europe to look in the same direction and lead the other countries to a lasting and binding agreement on combating global climate change. there's no time for that. kyoto expires in two years, and we need security and time to adapt. we need to send a clear signal to developing countries by providing cooperation on technology transfer and appropriate financial support. i am confident that, as the chinese ambassador has emphasized in a meeting with us today, the united states, the european union and china will take their responsibility to the negotiating table and lead the effort to reach a new agreement that will ensure the security of future generations.
mr president, mr chastel, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to emphasize in my speech the central role played by election observation missions in strengthening both our relations with the osce and, more generally, in strengthening our external action. the guarantee of respect for civil and political rights is one of the union's fundamental values. by extension, ensuring the integrity of electoral processes is a central element of the credibility of the union's external action. the osce and the european union, both of which have observer missions, therefore have a strong interest in cooperating in this area. in this respect, it seems to me that the establishment of the european external action service calls for the development of close cooperation procedures between the osce office for democratic institutions and human rights and the external service's observation missions department, in order to avoid the risk of duplication and to ensure that the european union has a strengthened external action in the osce area. this cooperation should take place before, during and after the deployment of observers, as a quality mission is one that is well prepared, well conducted on the ground and with effective follow-up. i would like to stress the importance of the european parliament in this respect: the fact that representatives of the european citizens, directly and democratically elected, can observe the smooth running of elections outside the union's borders is a considerable asset for the union, which we must preserve at all costs. finally, the charter for european security recognises the important role of the economic and environmental dimensions. stability and security often depend on it. it is therefore crucial to better highlight the expertise of the osce and the european parliament in these areas; the regular use and development of economic and environmental data is an additional guarantee for the success of our common missions. strengthening election observation missions through greater cooperation between the union and the osce and through the deployment of european parliamentarians on the ground is strengthening the union's foreign policy. in this way we will be able to meet the objectives of the lisbon treaty in practice.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. − mr president, i welcome mr díaz de mera’s report. after decades of tension, the political climate between the present taiwanese government and the people’s republic of china is positive. there are direct flights between the two and an economic cooperation framework agreement is already in force. relations between taiwan and the european union are also experiencing a positive trend: trade turnover and academic and business exchanges are high. education, democratic governance and income in taiwan are at the level of japan and south korea. based on this and other positive trends, the afet committee supports mr díaz de mera’s report in favour of lifting the visa requirement for taiwan. as the report says, we expect that, before the measures enter into force, taiwan will lift the visa requirement for all 27 member states as well. it should be recalled that visa regimes – and any consular or private law regimes – do not prejudice any position on the status of territories under public international law.
dear mr. chairman, colleagues, today, november 10th, two events are being celebrated in bulgaria. 21 years ago, the day after the berlin wall fell, under the slogan "openness, freedom, democracy" the communist regime fell. it is no coincidence that the same date is celebrated as the day of freedom of speech in bulgaria. there are accumulations that are a cause for reflection both on totalitarianism, which i hope has gone irrevocably in our country, and on another modern scourge of terrorism, which we are witnessing more and more. does democracy have the mechanisms to counter this kind of encroachment? can we fight terrorism without compromising democratic principles, without restricting human rights and media freedom? the liberal answer is 'yes', but only if we link the regional and national networks into a european system of prevention, early warning and rapid response.
ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to stress that the court of auditors' conclusions take account of the progress made by the commission in monitoring the use of european funds, but at the same time i hope that the recommendations and proposals of the european parliament in the discharge reports, which have been repeated for years, will be taken into account, especially in areas where we still have a high rate of irregularities. and the quality of the information provided by the court of auditors is even better. i mean, to be given the really accurate numbers and the percentage of irregularities that we need to know. the good news for 2009 is that the rate of irregularities in cohesion policy has decreased significantly compared to last year, but the big question remains whether this decrease will be sustainable over time or is just a coincidence, which may be due to the specific selection of countries under review. in any event, the agenda includes outstanding issues related to irregularities in the areas of external aid, development and enlargement, agriculture, research, energy and transport, education and citizenship. i would like to assure the court of auditors, the commission and the council that our work in the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament in the coming months will be extremely thorough and critically oriented towards improving the efficiency of the management of the european funds. we will continue to insist that the responsibilities which must be assumed in this respect by the european commission and the member states be strictly respected and that the measures against offenders produce a real result, protecting the interests of the european taxpayer.
in writing. − today i was pleased to vote in favour of the resolution on the crisis in the eu livestock sector, which calls for serious measures to support the livestock sector in the european union, by addressing the volatility of feed prices and taking measures to ensure that products imported into the eu meet the same requirements as european goods. the state of the livestock sector is a problem across the eu. the livestock sector is facing a variety of challenges - rising feed prices, market speculation, rising energy prices, rising costs associated with the implementation of european standards - all of which have led to the price increase of european production. these difficulties are common to all livestock farmers in the european union. but there are additional difficulties facing some new member states, such as my own country, bulgaria. in bulgaria, only 10% of farmers own their land and, accordingly, only these 10% can benefit from direct payments. this has led to a deepening of the crisis in the livestock sector in bulgaria. due to the lack of funds to buy the necessary quantities of fodder for the winter, many bulgarian farmers will be forced to slaughter their animals.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, on behalf of my group’s shadow rapporteur, i would like to congratulate mr fjellner for the great work accomplished. the alde group welcomes this report, which finally sets a clear framework for the provision of information to patients on medicinal products. patients need to be informed objectively and there needs to be a clear barrier between information and advertising. therefore, information about prescription medicines should be regulated strictly. special attention has also been given to new media – mainly internet websites – defining clear safeguards, developing mechanisms for the monitoring of contents and ensuring specific provision for proper enforcement. i would also like to make a personal point with regard to the materials provided to healthcare professionals for distribution to patients. there is no objective reason to exclude such materials from the provision covering other contents, especially when we know that doctors are the most trusted sources of information to patients. i will therefore personally vote against amendment 88 and i hope coherence will guide our voting position in order to maintain the major improvement that this report would bring to the commission proposal.
in writing. – i welcome the provisions in the report on the information on medicinal products which emphasise the right of consumers to information. regarding this i would like to draw your attention to the online public consultation launched by the ec in connection with forthcoming amendments to the tobacco products directive. undoubtedly, this initiative is praiseworthy and i support it. but i would like to see the position of parliament and the council because, since i have familiarised myself with the proposals, i define some as extreme, unreasonable and to some extent i am even surprised at their inclusion for discussion. i mean some of the proposed options such as the introduction of simplified uniform packing without insignia, a ban on display of products in sale and prohibiting the use of additives in the production of tobacco products. i believe that in drawing up new regulations reality must be considered. extreme bans and restrictive regulatory measures on tobacco should be treated with caution. this is a growing problem and i don’t want this signal to remain without discussion. the commission proposes, but what it gives us as proposals is not always the best for all member states. a debate in this case is obligatory!
education and science are a key priority objective of the economic strategy 2020. it's up to us whether the program will remain a piece of paper or real action to achieve the goals. to succeed, the responsibility must lie with both the european institutions and the member states. instead, the government in bulgaria is pursuing not only an anti-national but also an anti-european policy in the field of research and education. of the three percent for research and development in europe by 2020, bulgaria is modestly down to just 0.6 percent. after a series of unsuccessful decisions, today the bulgarian academy of sciences is being liquidated - an institution with more than one hundred and forty years of history, created in the difficult years of ottoman slavery, which today forms 55 percent of the scientific research in bulgaria, recognized worldwide. it has received over €30 million for over 400 successful european projects. despite its participation at the political and expert level in the european institutions, the bulgarian authorities are clearly unable to find the link between science and the way out of the crisis. the problem must be put on the agenda of the council and the commission. it is not only bulgarian, because it risks the implementation of the strategic programme and european priorities.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate ivo bellet on his excellent report on this very important subject. i also want to thank him for accepting my ideas and suggestions for this report. i think we've achieved a well-balanced report that aims to ensure fair competition between public and private media. in accordance with a long-standing tradition, public budgets or the taxpayer support public television stations on the assumption that public television stations only protect the public interest and private ones only private, commercial interests. however, practice in bulgaria and across europe has long shown that this is not entirely true for either public or private media. based on my long experience in the media sector, i have proposed several amendments to this report, the purpose of which is to achieve a level playing field between public and private media so that they can produce more quality and socially relevant information. european citizens have the right to receive the best information on both european and their national issues. this requires the efforts of both public and private media, and regulators are obliged to ensure their equal treatment. thank you for your attention.
madam president, when speaking about women in conflict zones we have to consider that despite increased efforts and good signs, such as the appointment of former commissioner margot wallström to the office of special representative of the un secretary-general on sexual violence in conflict, as well as the recent creation of ‘un women’, there is still a need for further action, greater awareness and practical political actions in this field. i would strongly highlight the fact that partnerships between parliamentarians, eu and un member state governments, institutions and civil society are vital for building support for the agreed goals and objectives of the action programme of the international conference on population and development as regards the millennium development goals. in the context of gender equality, we have to make a joint commitment to pushing this issue forward, ensuring better representation of women in an effort to prevent war, restore peace and cope with post-conflict situations, taking into account that women an play a significant role in peacekeeping if they are properly supported and genuinely included. in conclusion i would like to point out that the eu has a crucial role to play in advancing these objectives to achieve an equitable and lasting solution. it is our primary responsibility and important political role to work together to address the situation of women in conflict zones by means of preventing war and maintaining international peace and security.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i would like to explain the affirmative vote i gave on this proposal. i think it's absolutely imperative that we have an understanding of this kind of problem, because this kind of thing can happen to any of us. such actions show our unity and empathy towards the problems caused by natural disasters. i am confident that our aid will be spent in the right way and will help to overcome the consequences of the floods in ireland.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the commission's reports do not reveal any distortion of competition in the internal market by the monopoly. that's why i'm in favor of this proposal. moreover, the report highlights the importance of these provisions for the economy in rural areas in germany, in particular for small distilleries.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, around the world, innovation and globalisation are the two main drivers of economic development. they have a direct impact on productivity, job creation and the well-being of citizens and provide the opportunity to address some of the global challenges, such as health and the environment. as their role becomes more visible, their characteristics become clearer and policies need to be adapted to them. japan is a country with a long tradition in science and technology, so i voted for cooperation with them.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the western stock is the most economically important saffron stock in eu waters. we must therefore think both in terms of the long-term exploitation of living aquatic resources, which creates the conditions for the necessary sustainability and development, and from a social point of view for the owners, operators and crews of fishing vessels. i therefore agree with the commission's proposal to establish a long-term plan for the western stock of saffron and for the fisheries targeting that stock.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, we are all very concerned about the impact of human activity and overfishing on nature, and we share the concern about dwindling stocks and uncontrolled industrial fishing. i therefore vote in favour of the introduction of a balanced exploitation of living aquatic resources and the revision of the protected areas in the baltic sea.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i support the proposal by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection to include the text on the single european market in the resolution on civil, commercial, family and international private law. in my view, the single market supports the european area of freedom, security and justice and contributes to strengthening the european model of a social market economy, but at the same time it protects consumers. bulgaria, which borders the eu, is often threatened by the import of dangerous or potentially dangerous counterfeit goods. recently, 20-year-old lamb was discovered on the bulgarian market. and this is just one of the cases. the creation of a european area of freedom, security and justice will strengthen the single market, and in particular consumer protection, and i call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the commission in taking this into account and in ensuring legislation for the proper functioning of the single market in consumer protection.
mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the discussion of the commission's work programme is not just a formal act. it is a way of both drawing the attention of european citizens and giving the european commission a sense of what it can do to be supported by the members of the european parliament. i'll mention a few specific topics. the year ahead will be particularly important for the european union's presence on the global stage. in the field of foreign policy, we should see an increasingly effective european external action service, which would not be able to be established without the support of the european commission as a whole. in the field of enlargement policy, we would like the commission to take advantage of the new energy that was created in 2010. we call on the commission to assist croatia in meeting the remaining requirements so that the accession negotiations can be successfully concluded as early as possible in 2011. as we are particularly concerned about progress on chapter 23, we expect the commission to report to the european parliament on the progress of the negotiations as early as the first quarter of 2011. the other candidate country that the commission needs to monitor with particular attention is turkey. we expect turkey to be encouraged to accelerate its commitments in the negotiation process after the 2011 elections and to start work on a new constitution, with a particular focus on citizens' fundamental rights and freedoms. we also urge the commission to keep the european parliament regularly informed in the process of preparing the opinion on serbia's application for membership of the european union. we expect the review of the european neighbourhood policy to end with a proposal for adequate adjustments to ensure coherence between the policy objectives and the financial instruments to deliver them. to this end, the commission will be able to count on the support of the european parliament. our objectives in the europe 2020 strategy must be reflected in our neighbourhood policy both in the mediterranean and in the east. thank you and good luck in your work next year.
commissioner, whatever has been done so far is clearly not enough, otherwise we would be debating something else tonight. i want to draw your attention to the social element of what we're talking about. because when the producers prepare their projects, they take out loans, they put their land up for sale, and when their project is rejected on a formal basis, these people are ruined. i've been fighting a punic battle with the bulgarian agriculture fund for six months now because individual projects of over a hundred bulgarian farmers were rejected because of unclear text in the regulations. and the bulgarian administration (because you know that bulgaria is a country under special surveillance) prefers to protect itself and simply abandon the project for the slightest reason. i am deeply convinced that most people are conscientious and honest. and i understand the need for control, but that control shouldn't destroy those who are good at the expense of the crooks.
i would like to express my support for the report, especially in its final part, which calls for the interests of citizens to be put before political arguments. because there's a very simple example. two major projects are currently under development: south stream and nabucco. in bulgaria, there are some radical factors that say these projects are incompatible with each other. i don't think it was south stream or nabucco. i think that competition between these two projects is the only possible way to provide secure and cheap energy for european citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because the decision to shut down the reactors at the bulgarian power plant in kozloduy was political. and now, instead of generating billions of euros, some of which goes into the european budget, the member states have to pay compensation for the fact that the political decision was to shut down these reactors. in addition, we have recently seen a hysteria over the nuclear power plant issue and i would like to urge you to oppose such guerrilla organizations that apply guerrilla measures to oppose this issue; mainly because they offer no alternative. and nuclear power is the one that can also provide safe, cheap energy.
madam president, it is needless to remind you that a common strategy is a strategy which sets common priorities and objectives. we already have that strategy. what we need now is to put in place concrete means of achieving these objectives. to this end, we need clear political lines, coherent economic policies and stable social criteria. at the political level, respect for democratic values and human rights remains our guiding principle. in this context, i call on our partners to ratify the african charter for democracy as soon as possible and to ensure that the commitments made by both sides are respected. at the economic level, ensuring adequate and transparent funding for the strategy and fighting corruption at all levels are further guarantees for the success of our joint actions. it is equally important to continue to work towards the establishment of regional markets in which agriculture is recognised. at the social level, dialogue with local ngos and all civil society actors must be given priority. we must constantly pull social policies upwards. i believe that we must give special attention to education, training and the mobility of young people in order to revive a new global dynamic. our two parliaments, the pan-african and the european, must strive to carry out regular monitoring by means of joint expertise, annual reports and action plans. so we have a lot of challenges. to achieve them, we must move beyond the differences between and within our two continents. the eu-africa summit is an opportunity to propose effective joint solutions, and we must seize this opportunity.
i also want to congratulate commissioner piebalgs on the extremely balanced and calm presentation of the european commission's attitude to the events in western sahara. i believe that with this resolution we risk, instead of 'drawing eyebrows', 'piercing eyes' because we do not take into account the efforts that morocco is making to achieve a lasting and just solution to the conflict in western sahara. i would like to say that many international organizations are already on the ground conducting their own investigations into what happened. i think the best place for dialogue with morocco is the joint parliamentary committee within the european union and the kingdom of morocco. i think that efforts to find a mutually acceptable solution under the auspices of the united nations should be supported, rather than giving voice to unilateral statements.
i was on the parliament's delegation to ukraine and, to be honest, i came back with mixed feelings. we saw protests there, we saw a lot of violations. but we also saw some positive signs. i welcome the constitutional court's decision on the question of the parliament's mandate, because it removes a serious obstacle on the road to stability. in ukraine, colleagues, there are nearly one million people of bulgarian origin. these are a million potential ambassadors of the european idea in ukraine who have nothing to do with and are not guilty of the oligarchic games. we must find a way, within the framework of the visa policy, to make sure that these people and their ancestors, who have been cut off from their homeland for over 300 years, have the opportunity to travel freely to it and from there export our european ideals to ukraine.
on behalf of the alde group. dear commissioner, dear colleagues, i would first like to thank the three rapporteurs, mrs saifi, mr désir and mr jado, for the good work they have done on their respective reports. i welcome the call for legally binding clauses on human rights standards in international trade agreements and support the idea of paying greater attention to their implementation. i would like to pay particular attention to the respect of labour rights, especially for women and children in the countries with which the european union trades. the common system of preferences, as well as the cap+, are effective tools for promoting democratic values in the partner countries. but a closer link needs to be established between the human rights clauses and the cap+. coordination between the world trade organisation, on the one hand, and the united nations high commissioner for human rights and the international labour organisation, on the other, should be strengthened. i therefore believe that the ilo should be given official observer status in the world trade organisation. last but not least, as representatives of european citizens, we should be kept fully informed about the negotiations on international trade agreements, in line with the new powers of the european parliament under the lisbon treaty. with regard to the report by mr jado, of course we should promote green trade, but again we should be very careful in identifying goods that are defined as green. similarly, we need to put more emphasis on promoting green renewable energy sources as opposed to subsidising fossil fuels. the setting of a fair environmental price, in line with global climate protection standards, is another important point in the report, which i welcome. since a multilateral climate agreement is not foreseen in the near future, it is important to work at european level on the development of a mechanism to limit carbon dioxide emissions. i believe that both biofuels and biomass should be included in the mandatory sustainability criteria, given that they have contradictory environmental impacts. i thank all my colleagues once again and i hope that these reports will have a real impact on the negotiations on international treaties.
the rapporteur. - mr president, mr diamandouros, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the task of the european ombudsman can be seen in two ways. firstly, there is the legal objective, which is to ensure that the european institutions respect the fundamental right to good administration. the very essence of the role of mediator is to ensure that this right is respected. and here we are at a pivotal moment in that the treaty of lisbon, which now includes the european charter of fundamental rights, enshrines this right in article 41 as being legally enforceable. the ombudsman now has a legal basis which i would call a strengthened one for carrying out his work. to achieve this objective of full respect for good administration, the ombudsman must remain uncompromising towards the institutions. special reports are a useful tool here. they enable the mediator to identify a case of gross maladministration when all other avenues of dispute resolution have been exhausted. the porsche case is quite significant. i welcome the determination, if i may say so, of mr diamandouros in trying to obtain the information he is perfectly entitled to ask for. the second objective is moral. the ombudsman's aim is to promote a culture of service, which is not expressly set out in the treaties but is part of the commitments to which the institutions have subscribed. to ensure this culture of service, two things are essential. first, the mediator must continue, as he has done for several years, to encourage amicable solutions. i would remind you that 56% of complaints received are resolved amicably. it must then continue its efforts in the field of communication, so that european citizens are informed of their rights and of the procedures in place to enforce them. as such, the development of an interactive guide is an important step forward and i believe that many of our citizens are grateful to you for this. the ombudsman's 2009 activity report is therefore entirely positive. that's what i tried to put in my report. however, i have also made some recommendations. firstly, i think it is essential to strengthen links with national parliaments and national ombudsmen. acting in brussels without ensuring the link at national level takes away a great deal of efficiency. i therefore invite the european ombudsman to encourage more national ombudsmen to have regular exchanges with their national parliaments on the model of the exchanges established between the european ombudsman and us, the european parliament. to this end, the european network of ombudsmen is a considerable tool. i believe that the sharing of information and good practice is essential in this respect. i would like to stress the importance of establishing a common intranet portal for mediators to exchange all this information. mr president, the citizen must be the centre of attention. transparency, proximity, good administration and a culture of service are the watchwords. but this closeness also passes through our institution. i would therefore like to congratulate mr diamandouros again on his efforts to maintain a constant link with the european parliament and, in particular, with the committee on petitions. as i have stressed in my report, i believe that it would be very beneficial for both our institutions and, moreover, for european citizens to have more exchanges when an own-initiative inquiry is conducted by the ombudsman. so far, mr diamandouros has done very well in his task of bringing the institutions back to order when they have strayed down the winding road of opacity and mismanagement. mr ombudsman, i wish you all the best and look forward to reading your report on the year 2010.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, in my introductory remarks i talked too fast, so i will try to correct this. i will not try to impress the members of parliament with the speed of my speech but with the commitment which i am very clearly making here that the commission is very much interested in having the best possible close cooperation with the ombudsman. i think mr diamandouros knows this. he knows how closely we cooperate, and i think that the success rate in sorting out the problems of maladministration or other issues that he is investigating is so high because we are cooperating very closely and in a very positive spirit. of course, sometimes you have cases with which there are additional problems which need more energy to tackle, and this was clearly true of the case to which most of you have referred. this was very clearly a situation where the commission was torn between on the one hand the commitment to transparency and the legal obligations stemming from european court of justice case law, and on the other hand our commitment to honour professional secrecy. if we wanted to divulge the information – which was very pertinent in this particular case – we needed the agreement of the third party, which we have spent several months trying unsuccessfully to get. only after we made it very clear that we would publish the information anyway and informed the company that they had ten days to lodge a complaint with the european court of justice did we reach an agreement. what would have happened if we had not proceeded according to our legal obligations? the complaint would probably have been filed with the european court of justice, and maybe we would not have had that information made public even today. so please bear with us sometimes. we are really very committed to transparency, but we must always look for a very fine line among the different commitments that we have to respect in these very complex cases. nevertheless, i acknowledge – as i said in my introductory remarks – that this delay was long, and that we should probably have pressed the company more. we should have got their response faster, and i can assure you that the commission will do its utmost to ensure that we will not replicate this situation in any similar cases – we will not look for ways to drag the process out to 15 months, which was indeed unbearable. i fully agree with mrs paliadeli in this respect. regarding the access to information: again, let us just keep the numbers in proportion. we receive around 5 000 requests per year and we have 80 people working on them. some of the files we have to make accessible are this thick. many of them are citizens’ requests, but i can tell you that many of them are questions from very distinguished law firms trying to get additional information on very sensitive competition files. we have to be very careful with this process. i think we are doing a good job in this respect, because of these 5 000 files, only 15 to 20 end up on the ombudsman’s desk. 85% of these requests are granted access at first request, so you can calculate how many thousand files become accessible every year. we are very serious about this commitment and we will continue to proceed in this way. concerning eu transposition and implementation: here i can assure you that we are seeking very close cooperation with the european parliament. we are fully aware that appropriate speedy transposition and correct implementation are things that glue the european union together. they are absolutely essential for the good working of the single market, therefore we try to make absolutely sure that, in terms of the implementation and transposition of european law, we are very precise and very strict. if you will allow me to quote, we already agreed in the framework agreement that:‘in order to ensure better monitoring of the transposition and application of union law, the commission and parliament shall endeavour to include compulsory correlation tables and a binding time limit for transposition, which in directives should not normally exceed a period of 2 years.‘ in addition to specific reports and the annual report on the application of union law, the commission shall make available to parliament summary information concerning all infringement procedures from the letter of formal notice, including, if so requested by parliament, on a case-by-case basis and respecting the confidentiality rules, in particular those acknowledged by the court of justice of the european union, on the issues to which the infringement procedure relates’. so there is an additional way in which we can communicate and keep the european parliament better informed. if i may ask the assistance of the european parliament in this particular area, i would like to ask you to insist a little bit more on correlation tables where directives are concerned. this is always the commission’s proposal. we cannot always get it through in the final procedures when the legislator is finalising the negotiations on the commission’s proposal, but this is possible in parliament and the council. the correlation tables make it much easier for the commission to police the correct application of european law and to find errors and look for corrections. in answer to mr hefner’s question concerning the eu pilot and why it is so named: this is because, when we started with this new project on creating additional possibilities for the member states to correct their mistakes themselves more quickly, it was an accepted procedure which was started by a few member states. now most of them apply it. we are still in the initial phase. so far the results are very positive. of course, when we reach the stage when all member states are using this tool for better and faster application of european law, i am sure we will look for another name, because it will no longer be a pilot project. to conclude, madam president, i would like to thank the members of the european parliament and, of course, our ombudsman for the very satisfactory cooperation, and for a very good debate and the many new ideas which i heard this morning in the debate. i would just like to remind all of us that, thanks to the lisbon treaty, citizens have the right to good administration. the respect of european law is, of course, key to that – to the eu’s level playing field. i am sure that, together with the european parliament and with the ombudsman, we will achieve it. seeing madam durant presiding over our session this morning, i would like to highlight one additional element. this is the fact that we managed to finalise agreement on the joint eu transparency register, which will bring additional light and transparency to lobbying activities and the activities of interest-representatives in brussels. i think this is also a very important contribution to the increased transparency and higher quality of the eu legislative process.
ombudsman. − madam president, first of all i wish to thank very warmly all the members who took the time to comment on my report. i want to thank them for their warm endorsement of the work of the ombudsman. i derive a great deal of satisfaction, but also inspiration, from the kind of encouragement i receive from you, and i want to say to you openly that this kind of encouragement also increases the sense of responsibility that i feel is being put on my shoulders for carrying forward efforts to defend the rights of citizens. i want to thank you very much for that – for your concerns in relation not only to the annual report, but also of course to the special report – and to thank the two rapporteurs who took the time to prepare excellent reports on my annual report and my special report. permettez-moi aussi de m'adresser à mme nedelcheva pour la remercier de ses remarques. je tiens en particulier à vous dire, madame, que j'ai noté vos remarques qui m'encouragent à essayer d'avoir un dialogue avec les collègues nationaux en ce qui concerne l'application correcte du droit communautaire. je peux vous assurer que l'année prochaine, lors de la prochaine réunion des médiateurs nationaux à copenhague, je pourrai précisément mettre l'accent sur ce point-là. vous avez donc mon assurance et je vous remercie aussi pour vos remarques concernant l'importance du guide interactif, comme l'ont déjà remarqué également vos collègues d'autres partis. madam president, allow me now to focus on some of the remarks by vice-president šefčovič. let me begin with a general remark. i wish to make it clear to this chamber that mr šefčovič has gone out of his way to try and work very closely with the ombudsman, and i am very grateful to him for what he has done so far. i also wish to make it clear to this chamber that mr šefčovič, upon assuming his duties, in effect – these are my words – reversed the position of his predecessor and publicly acknowledged that, when it came to the porsche situation, the commission’s response had been unsatisfactory and regrettable. therefore i wish to draw a distinction between the person of the commissioner and the commission’s institutional response to this issue, which resulted in my needing – for the first time in 15 years – to feel constrained to submit a report to this body concerning that behaviour. it behoves me to make this distinction concerning the handling of the situation, and again to thank mr šefčovič for his efforts in trying to move forward and to be constructive in this area. having said that, let me say a few more things. commissioner, i consider the 2002 communication concerning citizens as of fundamental importance for the application of good administration of the union. if, therefore, the commission is considering changing this communication, i should very much hope that the commission will see to it that it consults both the ombudsman and the committee on petitions of the european parliament before actually changing what is an instrument of fundamental importance for the citizens. we are very much in agreement – and i am glad that you in fact also mentioned this – that the courts are the highest and the only authority which can take decisions on an authoritative interpretation of the law. i am very glad that the commission also acknowledges that. in terms of draft recommendations, let me just make a small clarification, commissioner. a draft recommendation constitutes a finding of maladministration by the ombudsman. that does not prevent the institution involved from responding to this particular draft recommendation and rectifying the matter, and i will take that into consideration for closing the case. therefore, a press release at the point of having found an instance of maladministration is in no way intended to pre-empt or to prevent an institution from being able to respond, and i want you to have my assurance personally on that. finally, as concerns the special report, again a clarification. the report was submitted because of the excessive delay. it was not – because i noted your regret – that it was released just after the commission had released the documents. the two were unrelated. it was the great length of the response that prompted the report, and i was very happy to have had the response as i did. but again, you have adopted a position on that one. finally, i hope that there will be an effort to try and deal with the delays. what i will say about the delays, commissioner, is that i expect the commission to be able to abide by the rules concerning delays that it has itself adopted and is trying to abide by. i will abide by my deadlines in terms of dealing with this kind of situation. i think this will result in a better outcome. i shall say two more things. i want to thank mr vlasák – i hope i am pronouncing the name correctly, because my czech is non-existent – for his remarks, because the gives me the opportunity to say that i am actively looking forward to the possibility of making use of the facilities of the eurobarometer, in order to be able to find more about what citizens think and feel about the ombudsman and about the handling of complaints. i want to thank him for that. i will do my best to see how the website can become user-friendly. let me just assure him that we put it through very many pilot phases and very many target groups, and they all found it very user friendly. more than 46 000 people have used it so far, and they were guided to the right place the first time around. i want to assure him that this is what we are doing in order to be able to combat maladministration and that the interactive guide has very much helped reduce maladministration in the institutions as a response to his question. two more things. ms geringer de oedenberg: it may not be easy to grasp that the vast majority of the complaints, whether to the european ombudsman or the national ombudsman, do indeed deal with eu law. therefore we have the network of ombudsmen that i coordinate in order to be able to send the complaints to the right institution from the very beginning so as to avoid problems. focusing only on what lies within the ombudsman’s mandate neglects the fact that the network ensures that the bulk of the complaints go to the right national regional ombudsman concerning eu law and that are dealt with there. a comment on mr migalski’s question. i can assure him that the ombudsman’s budget was approved by the council without any change. we are very mindful of the constraints, but we are also encouraged by the fact that the major budgetary institution – not only parliament – has approved it. regarding mr szegedi’s question, we agree emphatically that the courts of the member states do not know eu law sufficiently well, and i make a special point in my visits to all the member states, where i have been many times, of visiting the judiciary to be able to help them move in this particular direction. finally – and i will close with this – mr sógor also asked for the ombudsman to be able to receive complaints concerning eu law submitted at national level. regrettably, this is not in my mandate. i would be violating my mandate if i were to accept this task, and i would also be encroaching on the legal responsibilities and mandate of my colleagues in the member states if i were to do it. i try to collaborate with them to do it, but i have no authority to receive complaints that concern the application of eu law in the member states. madame la présidente, j'espère que j'ai répondu à toutes les remarques et je voudrais à nouveau remercier tous les députés pour leurs remarques d'encouragement et vous féliciter également, madame, comme l'a déjà fait m. le commissaire, pour l'importante initiative en vue d'approuver un registre commun entre le parlement et la commission. je suis persuadé que ce sera un pas en avant très important.
the rapporteur. - madam president, mr diamandouros, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for your contributions, which i firmly believe have clearly shown, on the one hand, the importance of the activities of the european ombudsman and, on the other hand, the interest that our institution attaches to them in the european parliament. i take this opportunity to thank my colleagues in the committee on petitions for their work in making the link between european citizens and the union's institutions even more tangible. mr ombudsman, 2009 marked the fifteenth anniversary of the institution. it also marked the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. your election by the european parliament has added further legitimacy to your office. i say 'well done', because the legitimacy of your office is ultimately derived from all those european citizens who have been able to address you and who have been able to find a solution thanks to your interventions. what is more fascinating about the role of the european ombudsman is that nothing is ever taken for granted. the reduction in the number of complaints, the reduction in the time taken to find a solution, the amicable settlement of complaints - these are as much progress as they are requirements. i believe that two major challenges should not be overlooked: greater transparency in the functioning of the institutions and better dialogue between citizens and institutions at european and national level. i thank you, mr ombudsman, and i will conclude by saying that, through your daily action, we have a concrete illustration that it is possible not only to meet these challenges, but above all to provide adequate and satisfactory answers for the citizens. it is not an easy task, but with the 2009 annual report and the commitment you have just made to the copenhagen meeting, i believe we are on the right track.
i voted for the resolution on beekeeping and support for the beekeeping sector because this agricultural production is the most specific agricultural work that is carried out. usually, when we think of insects, the associations are not very pleasant. insects are not pleasant animals to live with. but this fact only shows that the bee is the only insect that has been domesticated for food production and agricultural production. this shows its extreme importance. let's also not forget that without bees, there wouldn't be a huge chunk of the rest of the crop, because they're responsible for pollination. it is very important that the european parliament has repeatedly set the standard for equalization in agriculture in general and in this case specifically for beekeeping between the eu and outside the eu. the commission should take note.
i voted, of course, for the ukraine resolution and i made a lot of my arguments in the debate yesterday. but i want to use this procedure to make a very important clarification, because something was said yesterday in the debate that is not true. then mr. brok was most likely misled by a misunderstanding of the terms. but he said that the head of the security services appoints and participates in the appointment of constitutional judges in ukraine. i checked that tonight and found that it wasn't. the constitutional tribunal is appointed by the president, the verkhovna rada and the judiciary, and in practice the head of the services has no relation to the appointment of judges to the constitutional tribunal. i wanted to make that clarification.
dear mr. chairman, dear colleagues, starting today, a declaration signed by myself and four other colleagues for a fair distribution of agricultural subsidies between the old and new member states after 2013 is being launched. under the current cap, all farmers in the european union are obliged to meet the same requirements, which require expensive investments. they have the same duties, but not the same rights. i therefore consider that after 2013 the direct payment scheme should ensure fair treatment of all farmers in the union. we must put an end to the historical model, define common criteria and take account of the specific needs of agriculture in the individual regions. in addition, a system must be established to allow for the transfer of funds from the second pillar to the first, so that the majority of agricultural producers in the new member states can benefit from the support measures and instruments. it is time to put an end to the division between old and new members of the cap, and i sincerely hope that this cause will be supported by all of us.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to focus your attention on the problems of the bulgarian freight transport companies, who will be greatly harmed if we allow additional charges to be introduced, related to air pollution, noise emissions and so on. this sector is in crisis and if the charges are raised we risk not only deepening this crisis but leaving the industry with no chance of renewing the fleet. as a bulgarian citizen, i object to these accounts of the commission, which has again failed to take account of the differences in the territorial situation of the individual member states. bulgaria is a peripheral member of the union, so to speak, and bulgarian carriers will be the most affected by these additional charges. if we look at the research, we see that the bulgarian economy will lose in all these scenarios. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the european parliament has the political will to prevent the problems with the countries bordering the union from getting worse.
mr. president, a few days ago, president barroso warned that europe is facing a rising tide of populism and nationalism. he called on political leaders to fight the manipulation of people's fears and irrational arguments that he said fuels populism in many countries. this statement gives me cause to call attention to the risks to democracy in the former communist countries. there more than anywhere else, european leaders must be uncompromising to any attempt to violate the right to private property. this is the case for the partial nationalisation of personal contributions to occupational pension funds and their transfer to the state social security system. europe must also be vigilant about the right of people to free choice and must not allow it to be restricted in any way. and above all, european leaders must be uncompromising against attempts to manipulate public opinion, against the massive use of special intelligence tools and the official disclosure of classified information in order to put pressure on people and violate human rights.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would very much like to thank the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs in general and specifically the rapporteur, mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra, and the shadow rapporteurs for the work done on this very important dossier and i welcome the agreement reached with the council. the suggested amendment will enable closer cooperation between frontex and the immigration liaison officers’ network and that will improve the information exchange via a web-based secure it platform and ensure that the council and parliament are properly informed about the activities of these networks. moreover, i am also pleased that, through the amendments put forward by parliament, a human-rights based approach will be applied when reporting on the situation in matters related to irregular immigration in the selected third countries. let me say that i fully agree with the rapporteur that we should use the word ‘irregular’ migration. unfortunately the treaty in article 79 refers to ‘illegal’ so that is why it is in there, but i myself also always use the term ‘irregular’ migration so i fully agree with you. thanks to the amendments to the regulatory framework that you have introduced, and in accordance with the stockholm programme, the liaison officers’ networks will be adapted in a way that will improve their contribution to a better understanding of the root causes of migration movements with a view to addressing these phenomena properly. so i hope that when you vote tomorrow on the amended regulation it will be adopted without any delay and thus enable us to exploit more efficiently this very important cooperation tool for migration management.
- the alde group, i too would like to join those who highly appreciate the efforts of the rapporteur, mr díaz de mera, because he created an atmosphere in which we were able to discuss our proposals for changes, to edit the most difficult ones and to reach compromises that now make us feel satisfied with the efforts made. as a representative of the liberal and democratic group, i would first of all like to point out that a great merit of the result achieved is that the subject of human rights, this time, is integrated into the big subject of immigration and the management of immigration processes. so, with a human rights consideration we can continue to ensure a very humanistic, proper approach to both immigration officers and frontex employees. secondly, the merit of our work is that it will improve cooperation, both between the liaison officers and between them and frontex. and ultimately, frontex will create, through joint efforts, a new, larger, and more diverse know-how. this know-how will be in the hands of the responsible institutions and individuals to manage immigration processes more effectively. and what does it take to manage immigration processes more effectively? this is because immigration processes remain active and are likely to intensify in the near future.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the european parliament rapporteur, claude moraes. he has done a fantastic job together with his team of shadow rapporteurs. parliament, the commission and the council have really achieved an agreement. the minister was also very helpful. the compromise that we have reached is a well-balanced one and is in line with the 2007 proposal. the extension of long-term residence status to beneficiaries of international protection will ensure a higher level of protection and legal certainty for refugees in europe and will allow for better integration in our societies. this is also the first building block of our asylum package – the first of six pieces of legislation – and is a first step towards our joint aim of achieving a common european asylum system by 2012. it will give a strong political signal that we can agree, that we are willing to go down this difficult but necessary road and make progress and that we can act reasonably and constructively on this. i would really like to thank you for that. concerning the much talked-about issue of correlation tables, the commission made a declaration to the council. i would like to read it out, with your permission: ‘the commission recalls its commitment towards ensuring that member states establish correlation tables linking the transposition measures they adopt with the eu directive and communicate them to the commission in the framework of transposing eu legislation, in the interest of citizens, better-law making and increasing legal transparency and to assist the examination of the conformity of national rules with eu provisions.‘ the commission regrets the lack of support for the provision included in the 2007 com proposal amending the long-term residence directive which aimed at rendering the establishment of correlation tables obligatory.‘the commission, in a spirit of compromise and in order to ensure the immediate adoption of the long-term residence proposal, can accept the substitution of the obligatory provision on correlation tables included in the text with a relevant recital encouraging member states to follow this practice.‘ however, the position followed by the commission in this file shall not be considered as a precedent. the commission will continue its efforts with a view to finding, together with the european parliament and the council, an appropriate solution to this horizontal institutional issue.’ i think we can agree on this. it is important that this declaration is in the protocol and has been heard. as i said in the earlier debate, the commission is repeating this argument. nevertheless, on this particular report, it is very important that we have reached agreement. thank you all, again, for your contribution.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr moraes, on his excellent work and thank him for the exemplary collaboration he has shown with the fictitious rapporteurs, the commission and the council. with this report we have taken a big step towards a harmonised european asylum system. the agreement reached with the council was necessary and i am very glad that we have succeeded in moving this matter forward. the asylum package is much broader and, in fact, much remains to be done. we must therefore not let our guard down and i hope that the council's cooperative attitude will also be reflected in the negotiations on the next issues. that is what i wanted to say in the introduction. i would like to make two points on the substance of the matter, without repeating the rapporteur's remarks. first of all, i would like to stress the importance of integrating third country nationals into our societies. the migrants who arrive in our countries are a tremendous asset to our economies. however, we cannot accept everyone under any circumstances. many governments have in recent months acknowledged the failure of their integration model. (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, let me commend my colleagues, mr luhan and ms mănescu, for their excellent work. we all agree that the cohesion policy has a significant role to play for the competitiveness of the european regions. with regard to the continuation of the policy and its achievements, we want to see adequate resources, or at least no less money made available for the cohesion policy than we have at the present time. neither do we want an additional burden for the beneficiaries. the future design of the cohesion policy depends on the decision we will take together. however, the commission has an important role to play with the proposal it makes and here we rely on you, commissioner hahn, because in my opinion, some of these proposals – like the suggested preconditions for the member states for receiving european union financial assistance – need additional qualification. the cohesion policies for all regions need support, and we should not permit a situation to arise in which they will suffer because of the inefficiency of some national governments. here again i agree, commissioner, that it is important to develop these levels. it is therefore crucial not to replace complexity by conditionality and not to make life difficult again for the final beneficiaries. to ensure the cohesion policy leads to positive results, let us allow the regions to participate actively; let us allow them to feel ownership of the process, give them appropriate resources and make sure they use them in the most efficient way.
mr president, just a few days ago the commission voted on the danube strategy action plan, so i will look at mr luhan's report through the lens of that event. moreover, its explanatory memorandum states that it aims to stimulate a debate on the interdependence and complementarity of measures at european and national level. i'd add a regional one. the report outlines a framework within which cohesion policy can play a role in improving the union's competitiveness. it does not explicitly address the role of the macro-regions in this process, but the analysis shows that this is precisely the framework that the danube strategy, and its predecessor, the baltic strategy, already represents in a miniature. i find an overlap between the conditions stated in the report and their actual presence in the danube action plan. moreover, the competitiveness-enhancing elements of the report are fundamental to the strategy. for example, the report focuses on building links with other territories. it is emphasised that member states should support a locally-oriented approach to the formulation and implementation of cohesion policy. and all of these are the working techniques that are embedded in the new policy for the danube macro-region. i also admire the thesis in the report that it is important to continue supporting the lagging regions first and foremost. the danube strategy thus appears as a special case of mr luhan's report, fully in line with its conclusions. the comparison i am making is intended to show the correct course of cohesion policy. i believe that these principles and ways of acting should be the basis for cohesion policy in the next programming period, including results-oriented local policy through the macro-regions.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve real social and economic convergence of the countries of the union, differences between the member states must first be taken into account, not only in terms of economic growth and progress, but also in terms of territorial situation. to talk about general measures at this stage, i think it's inappropriate. the measures for each member state of the union must be different because the need is different. as regards the role of the commission in the procedures for assisting and monitoring the good management of regional policy, i believe that the commission must first clearly define and state its commitments. in my experience, when i have reported to the commission on a matter, the only response i have received has been either evasive or simply that it is not within its competence. i come from a country where for many years passing the ball was the way of doing things, and i would like to see the commission's powers clearly defined so that we can have clear answers and precise action in certain circumstances.
madam president, i would like also to thank the rapporteur. safeguarding life, physical and psychological integrity as well as sexual integrity and freedom are priority objectives where victim protection is concerned. with our political support for the european protection order directive, we have given the issue the visibility it deserves and provided a europe-wide, comprehensive package of special protection measures that are effective within the union and grant legal protection and assistance for victims of crime, in particular violent crimes. the right to protection from violence is a basic human right regardless of ethnicity, legal status or immigration status, and it is therefore a moral duty for all of us to uphold this right within and beyond national borders. i am convinced that this new approach to the protection of vulnerable victims is a very strong political message with a view to strengthening freedom, security and justice within the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, despite increasing efforts to combat trafficking in human beings, this complicated problem continues to flourish and expand across europe. this is the reason for intensified actions and adequate measures to protect individuals from the practice of trafficking for different purposes, to prosecute traffickers and to provide effective remedies for victims at national and eu level. the current legal framework will effectively deal with complex transnational problems and will coordinate joint efforts at both national and eu level when addressing this profound human rights abuse and a particular form of violence against women. by means of this legal instrument, we make a joint commitment to ensure that women’s rights across europe are elevated to a priority level, taking into consideration that this wider phenomenon indisputably has a disproportionate impact on women and girls. i would like to point out another important issue which i propose should be included in this piece of legislation. it relates to the socio-economic aspects of this widespread problem with european countries or regions where social and economic inequalities are the most important single cause of trafficking. thanks to our joint efforts, we have achieved a positive outcome in the provision on the issue related to practices such as illegal adoption. in conclusion, i would strongly highlight that the primary responsibility for combating trafficking rests with the member states. they should take concrete actions to prevent and suppress trafficking and to protect the human rights of trafficked persons, and should play a greater role in addressing this significant problem.
in writing. - i supported the report because trafficking in human beings is a serious problem that we need to tackle and the measures provided for in the lisbon treaty are not strong enough to combat trafficking in human beings. trafficking in human beings is a form of slavery, and europe must protect its children, women and citizens from this threat by all means possible. this is a serious crime and a serious violation of fundamental human rights, leading people to a state of dependence through threats, violence and humiliation, and deserves a serious punishment and a minimum sentence of 10 years. i also believe that a victim-centred approach should be used, involving the identification, targeted action and protection of all potential categories of victims, with special attention to children and other risk groups, as was also mentioned in the report by my colleague edit bauer.
achieving high energy efficiency is a key policy objective of the european union, as it is an integral part of the overall strategy to build a competitive, low-carbon economy in the european union, which will result in stimulating economic activity and improving employment, through the creation of many new jobs. with tomorrow's vote on the energy efficiency action plan, the european parliament will send a strong signal to the european commission and the council on the need for urgent and concrete action in this direction. firstly, i call on the european commission to undertake a thorough analysis of the effectiveness of existing legislation in this area, the renewal of the existing building stock and higher energy standards in new construction. building energy efficient infrastructure and developing advanced technologies in vehicles are other important priorities that i hope will be part of the new energy efficiency roadmap that the european commission will propose in 2011. in conclusion, i would say that energy efficiency has the potential and should become a profitable business. on his own, achieving high public service goals.
in writing. – energy efficiency (ee) is the most cost-efficient measure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. through lower energy consumption we are less dependent on imports of oil and gas and their varying prices. it is of crucial importance to focus investment on energy efficiency and to limit the money we spend on oil and gas imports. that money should create jobs in our smes, agriculture, forestry sector and industry. the commission’s estimates showed that a 20% increase in ee could potentially create as many as a million new jobs in europe and an average household can save at least eur 1 000 per year. a lot has been achieved since the last eeap but there is no evidence that the target can be met by 2020. new instruments towards boosting energy savings should be introduced at eu and national level with the emphasis on two main areas: renovation of existing buildings and measures to boost financing. old buildings have the highest efficiency potential and the appropriate financial instruments to utilise that potential are missing. these two issues should be properly addressed in the revision of the energy efficiency action plan in order to get things moving as desired.
in writing. – the establishment of a permanent crisis mechanism for the eu to strengthen financial stability is a step in the right direction. together with stronger and more coordinated economic governance, the permanent crisis mechanism could, and would, guarantee the stability of the euro area. the specific situation in the new member states should also be kept in mind while establishing this mechanism. these countries should be actively involved in the debate and given the possibility to participate in the mechanism if they are willing to do so. at the same time, member states should keep their national tax policies. it is important to keep tax competition as a tool to facilitate cohesion and boost eu economic growth. shifting policies towards tax harmonisation or a common consolidated tax base will only further aggravate the gaps in economic development and hamper cohesion. member states that create a greater risk by their deficits and debt burden should contribute more to the assets of the crisis mechanism. this would definitely encourage strict fiscal discipline and enhance the added value of having a proper economic and fiscal policy.
madam president, first of all i would like to commend the enormous work done by the rapporteurs. ladies and gentlemen, these are not ordinary days in the european parliament. today's one. we wanted to put a clear, simple and effective instrument in the hands of the citizens with the aim of bringing them closer to the institutions. firstly, it should be stressed that efforts have been made to simplify the procedure. the recording phase becomes quick and clear. it is our duty to disseminate the criteria which an initiative must meet in order to be registered: respect for the union's values, respect for the commission's powers, and the subject of the application of the treaties. secondly, i would draw attention to the one-year time limit available to the member states. the fact that they respect this deadline and then ensure data protection will be a strong signal to our citizens. thirdly, i am satisfied with the three-month deadline, the political and legal arguments and the procedure for organising joint public hearings with parliament which the commission has to follow. with these three points, it is certainly possible to say that a tool that is simpler than expected, clearer than it first appears and supposed to be more effective will soon be in the hands of the european citizens. finally, i will remain vigilant about the possible harmful effect of the initiative's funding by political parties and i continue to believe that the citizens may have the right to blame us for this. that said, i count on all of us to sound the alarm at the first signs of instrumentalisation because, above all, we have promised and we will vote for an instrument of participatory democracy that belongs exclusively to the citizens.
madam president, as part of our debate today on human rights in eu internal and external policies, i would like to make a special point on the situation of women in conflict zones and in particular in congo, gaza and iran, where this question should no longer be overlooked. women, as well as children, are the ones suffering most from the devastating consequences of conflict situations. we should not allow breaches of human rights affecting women to be a side issue: the eu should prioritise the defence of women’s rights in its foreign affairs and humanitarian policies. human rights considerations – and in particular the status of women – in a large number of third countries are too often sacrificed for the sake of the economic interests of some eu member states. we need, and we demand today, appropriate and concrete steps to make the eu’s principles in its action within and outside the union a real tool of human rights promotion, with a specific focus on women’s rights.
madam president, we are discussing today perhaps one of the most important reports in the field of foreign and security policy for 2010. i take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur, mr arlacchi, on his work and the results he has achieved. the results of the policy in afghanistan so far can be judged by the shocking data of rising infant mortality, decreasing life expectancy, increasing illiteracy and poverty. at the same time, the cost of five days of war is the cost of ending poverty, one week is the cost of 6,000 schools. i realize that these comparisons are not entirely accurate, but they do give some idea of the impasse in which we find ourselves at the moment. at the same time, a number of reports have highlighted serious weaknesses, money laundering and corruption in the absorption of international aid. since 2002, the european union and its member states alone have provided over €8 billion without achieving any significant result. equally worrying is the fact that the recruitment and training of personnel in the afghan national police does not meet even the most minimal standards: 90% of the personnel are illiterate citizens, one fifth of whom use drugs. i stress this because we cannot talk about a new strategy for afghanistan unless we open our eyes to the real facts. there are no easy solutions and no ready-made recipes, but we insist that the only solution is political to put emphasis on strong engagement of afghan institutions and citizens in the development of the country and to seek a long-term solution by creating a stable basis for ending opium production and eradicating poverty.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs paliadeli, on her work on this report. the creation and enforcement of a european heritage label is an initiative to which we should pay particular attention. it is the european dimension and significance of the sites on offer that will influence the strengthening of european identity and a sense of european citizenship. the history of our continent is an important element that could contribute to the integration of the european peoples. our younger generation should be well aware of our common european cultural heritage. because it is very important on this subject that there should be no contradictions, no attempts at populist interpretation, because this is our common european history and it reflects all our cultural and linguistic diversity. the selection procedure shall ensure a better quality of the sites selected. i believe that the member states should make their proposals in close liaison with the local and regional authorities. this will help to promote the sites at national level and will lead to closing the gap between the european institutions and european citizens. as a member of the european parliament, the only democratically elected body representing the citizens, i believe that it should have a greater role in this initiative.
in writing. − i voted for the ep resolution on the permanent crisis mechanism specifically because of the fact that during the debates in the committee on economic affairs the texts relating to establishment of a minimum corporate tax rate in the eu of 25% were deleted. i firmly support the idea for member states to keep their national tax policies. it is crucial to preserve tax competition as a tool to facilitate cohesion and boost eu economic growth. otherwise, how shall we drive eu competitiveness if we eliminate one of the best instruments to promote it and what shall we solve if we harmonise taxes clearly without the agreement of all member states? i also support the proposition for member states that create bigger risk by their deficits and debt burden to contribute more to the assets of the crisis mechanism because this would definitely encourage strict fiscal discipline and enhance the added value of having a proper economic and fiscal policy.
