on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we would like to request that the debate on relations between tunisia and the european union be postponed until the february part-session as, in the mean time, a meeting of the subcommittee on human rights will be held on relations between the european union and tunisia, and, perhaps, new material will be available to us during that debate.
mr president, you referred to the death penalty earlier on. we often talk here about the number of death penalties being carried out in china, in iran etc. i would like to refer to the case of a man in ohio in the united states who, after serving 30 years in prison, also ‘served’ the death penalty, because he had to follow the due process. serving two of the major sentences is, according to european standards, very cruel treatment. i think that, in our dialogue with the united states – our major ally – this issue of the death sentence should come up. we should also consider the other case, of somebody who served 35 years in prison and was then proved innocent. with the death penalty there is no deterrence; there is no correction; there is no coming back.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the appalling events taking place in italy, where immigrants working illegally in the agricultural sector are falling victim to an unprecedented wave of growing xenophobia and racist violence. in particular, more than 1,500 migrants are leaving their homes or being forcibly removed by the authorities of the city of rosarno. the recent criminalization of illegal immigration in italy is turning into more exploitation of illegal immigrants by restricting their access to employment, housing and basic services. i therefore ask the commission and the council to explore the possibility of transposing the provisions of the un international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families into european union law. the aim must be to prevent such situations in the european union.
mr president, the spanish presidency, in order to describe the priorities on the consumer issue, devotes a total of two lines to the programme of governance. this is indicative of the importance attached to consumer protection. we are therefore wondering what the presidency intends to do about the rights of its citizens. is it prepared to secure them by the proposed full harmonisation downwards or will it confine itself to declaratory commitments? the lack of vision in the social sector is not limited to consumers. the unemployment which has arisen as a result of the recent crisis is a deep wound for the citizens of the community, who expect to see action taken. the young are particularly in a bind. in response, the presidency is promoting the employability of young people through apprenticeship schemes, enhancing their over-exploitation and the profitability of enterprises. we call on the spanish presidency to revise its programming to ensure permanent jobs for its citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, as a cypriot mep, when i speak of turkey i always feel obliged to express our support for the accession of that country under the known conditions of course and with a deep democratization. but how do we help turkey's democratization? that is a big question. i argue that this is what is achieved by telling the truth in turkey. yes, turkey is making moves. but many of these are noteworthy. we should tell her. turkey has become a graveyard of political parties. thirteen parties have been buried under supreme court decisions. recent ban of dtp; in the case of the european parliament, the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the council of ministers. is there a tendency to democratize in such a state because there is a television that speaks in the kurdish language? we are neighbours of turkey and we invite you to learn from our experience as neighbours, not from our sensitivities. turkey will become a democracy if we speak to it clearly and firmly.
madam president, the years of violence and terror in turkey seem to have no end. kurds, alevis, non-muslim minorities, trade unionists, the ecumenical patriarchate, armenians, cypriots, prisoners, local government, homosexuals, women, kurdish political parties, the media have a lot to say when they dare to break their silence. despite the reforms and progress made in turkey, several laws are not being implemented. the dark side and human rights violations are inherent in freedom of the press, gender equality, freedom of expression, minority rights. it is precisely for this reason that the european court of human rights has condemned turkey on the grounds of asylum and turkish citizens and minorities for violation of the right to life, inhuman and degrading treatment and a host of other violations. i believe that the european union can play a catalytic role in democratizing turkey by demanding full application of the european acquis without derogations, without self-interest and without applying the policy of two measures and two stations. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in turkey, and we are therefore in favour of the adoption of a new resolution on the situation in turkey.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank parliament for inviting me to take part in the discussion on tunisia. eu-tunisia relations are governed by an association agreement signed in 1995. by the way, tunisia was the first mediterranean county to sign such an agreement and it has since then made significant advances. in international relations tunisia is close and a reliable partner for the eu. the views it expresses and the positions it takes within international organisations and in other fora are moderate and balanced. it is cooperative on issues such as security and migration and has good relations with its neighbours in the southern mediterranean region. furthermore, it has always played a constructive role towards regional integration in the maghreb. tunisia takes an active part in the european neighbourhood policy and the commission’s periodic reports on implementation by tunisia of the european neighbourhood policy action plan are clear in their assessment: tunisia has achieved progress in a number of cooperation areas, including the action plan. economic reforms have progressed, allowing for a steady growth of the tunisian economy as well as of trade volume with the eu. important results have been achieved in the social field, in areas such as health care, education, the fight against poverty and the protection of women’s rights. on the other side, the reports also highlight shortcomings, in particular in the areas of justice, freedom of expression and association. political dialogue with tunisia has been continuous on all the subjects covered by the action plan, which are addressed in 10 subcommittees and in working groups. the eu-tunisia association council has already met several times and the next meeting is scheduled in the next few months. on 1 january 2008, tunisia became the first southern mediterranean country to have a free trade area with the eu for industrial products, two years in advance of the date foreseen. the eu is tunisia’s first trading partner: 72.5% of its imports come from the eu and the eu is the destination for 75% of its exports. eu financial cooperation amounts to some eur 75 million to eur 80 million per year, for which tunisia has proved to have a good absorption capacity. negotiations have also been launched on the gradual liberalisation of trade in services and the right of establishment, as well as on agriculture and fishery products. the conclusion of these negotiations, together with approximation of the relevant legislation, will mark a new stage in relations between the eu and tunisia and progress towards the integration of the tunisian economy in the eu single market. tunisia has requested that its relations with the eu be given a new impetus through an advanced status. we believe that such an endeavour is in the interests of the eu. we also expect that tunisia will show a real drive towards more democratic reforms and freedom of expression. without progress in the important area of human rights, the country’s important achievements that i have mentioned would anyhow be perceived, despite their significance especially by regional standards, as incomplete. in conclusion, i would like to say that we judge relations between the eu and tunisia as solid and friendly and that we believe that there is indeed a potential for further strengthening of those relations.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, as a partner in the context of the union for the mediterranean, the first country to conclude the association agreement, the first to have an action plan for the implementation of the neighbourhood policy, tunisia contributes to the stability of the region; the eu is now waiting for negotiations on an advanced status for the partnership. in the aforementioned agreements, there are clauses on democracy, the rule of law and human rights. there are procedures for dialogue and for putting forward these very sensitive and important subjects for us in the european parliament. if we want tangible results, if we do not necessarily achieve them through controversy and criticism, we must be careful to avoid sponsorship, to convince that we speak as equals and not as superiors and inspectors, to show that we are also prepared to investigate the concerns and sensitivities of our partners. in this context, i am sure that the tunisian government will respond with concrete steps forward in the areas under discussion.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, indeed, these are three resolutions adopted by the committee on foreign affairs examining the commission’s progress report on enlargement. they can therefore be seen together, examined together and debated together.
madam president, the international economic crisis has clearly had a negative impact on men and women. it involves job losses, it imposes fiscal austerity policies. but it must in no way be a deterrent to further promoting policies for gender equality, because these policies can be the engine for socioeconomic growth and recovery in europe. the crisis also presents a unique opportunity and challenge for the european union and its member states' governments to create conditions for increased competitiveness at global level by reviewing and mainstreaming the gender equality dimension in all policies to address longstanding democratic deficits at the expense of women. we must intensify our efforts to combat inequality, violence, the glass ceiling, discrimination, poverty. we must find ways of reconciling work and family life, improving child, infant and elderly care infrastructures, supporting working women and dual-career couples, as well as single-parent families and people with disabilities. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote equal opportunities for women and men in the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we, dear colleagues, would like to stress from the outset that we are in favour of turkey's accession. that's something we mean and believe. it is necessary, first of all for the people of turkey themselves, to guarantee the rights of all minorities, to reduce the electoral threshold for membership of parliament, to guarantee labour rights such as the right to strike and collective bargaining. the european union is also calling on the turkish authorities to take all necessary steps to ensure that the turkish authorities are able to comply with the international law and to ensure that the turkish authorities are able to comply with the international law. it is imperative, without further delay, as the council stresses, to comply fully and without discrimination with the additional protocol to the ankara agreement. turkey, dear colleagues, in defiance of international law, is preventing the republic of cyprus from exercising its sovereign rights in its exclusive economic zone. we therefore disagree with the position on the opening of the energy chapter. i would like to conclude by mentioning the intention of some to vote for an amendment calling on all the parties concerned to contribute to the solution of the cyprus problem. we all have to contribute. but, my dear colleagues, is this not an unacceptable equalisation of responsibility, equalisation of responsibility between the occupier and the victim? if we want a solution to the cyprus problem, we must emphasize turkey's responsibilities. we must speak clearly in turkey. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but turkey's accession to the european union, not the european union to turkey.
mr president, in the epp group everybody is in favour of following the commission recommendations that fyrom should begin accession negotiations. we also know that fyrom and greece need to reach an agreement on the name issue so that these negotiations can begin. the name issue is a real political issue in greece. no greek government can survive if negotiations are allowed to begin without an agreement on the name. this is a political reality. irrespective of how colleagues judge this issue, if we want to be good advisers we must give fyrom friendly, flexible advice. by dismissing the name issue, calling it ‘comical’ for instance, we become bad advisers to fyrom and we do not serve its cause. turkey should know how large the turkish dossier is for a country with its size of population. it regards the capacity of the eu to absorb such an enlargement, the budgetary constraints and so on, so turkey should understand how much easier – and without obstacles and frozen chapters – her accession road would be without the weight of the problem of cyprus. it needs to contribute on the issue of guarantees, the presence of troops and the right of unilateral military intervention that cyprus does not need.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the amendments 13 and 14 by the greens and liberals upset this balance, and i therefore urge you to vote against them. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it is therefore unfair to call on all the parties to support the negotiations under way. the one who needs to be pressed is the occupying turkey. turkey must immediately withdraw all turkish troops, end the occupation, stop holding the turkish cypriot community hostage, because it is the turkish cypriots who are responsible for the so-called isolation of the turkish cypriots, not the greek cypriots. turkey must return the besieged city of varosi, end its illegal settlement and expropriation of greek cypriot property. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres and for the establishment of a european network of information centres. the small cyprus is asking for nothing more and nothing less than a solution that is in line with the european acquis, without derogations, and with the un resolutions. the cypriots are not second-class citizens of any ottoman or other colonial power. we are european citizens with european rights.
madam president, commissioner, even if the strongest resolution in favour of turkey were to be adopted today, that country would not cease to have a significant democratic deficit, to violently violate the human rights of millions of people and to occupy militarily the republic of cyprus, a member state of the european union. however, with regard to cyprus, many insist on equating responsibility between the perpetrator and the victim. we cannot accept crime and gun violence and call on all parties involved - call on them to do what? - to hear in the temple of democracy, the european parliament, the use of unethical terms such as north cyprus, south cyprus, and talk about alleged elections in northern cyprus, where 70% of the so-called electorate are illegal settlers. it is clear that if the solution does not respect the human rights of the cypriot people, the whole system of values of the european union is at risk. the talks are of course continuing, but they are in a deadlock because of turkey's maximalist claims. since it is turkey that is being evaluated and not any other country, we call on turkey to facilitate the process of talks by two self-evident actions: first, to begin the immediate withdrawal of the occupying army and second, to return the occupied city of famagusta to its legal residents.
madam president, in this debate today we must send clear messages to turkey, given that it has not taken any concrete steps to solve the various problems with its neighbours. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the conflict, and the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the conflict. this means that the unlawful formation of the occupied persons cannot be recognised; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the turkish cypriots are not the only ones who have been affected by the recent events in cyprus, and it is not surprising that the turkish cypriots are the only ones who have been affected by the events in cyprus.
mr president, the question is an indirect call for community legislation. but since the european court of justice itself sets the limits and conditions under which member states alone, through their national legislation, can define how online betting is controlled, there is no need to ask for european legislation. moreover, the court has held in the schindler judgment that gambling has certain moral, religious and cultural aspects, involves a high risk of illegality or fraud and can have harmful consequences for the individual and society. and that is the most important thing, colleagues. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full, and that the member states are able to use them to the full. moreover, this was supported both by the study carried out on behalf of the commission by the swiss institute of comparative law and by the 2009 report on the subject, drawn up by mrs schaldemose, who was voted in favour in this house. this report concludes that an approach based solely on the internal market is not appropriate in this very sensitive area and asks the commission to pay particular attention to the views of the court of justice of the european communities on this issue.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the goldstone report is the most compelling evidence of the crimes, the violations of international law and international humanitarian law by israel against the palestinian people. the investigation has produced strong evidence that israeli forces have committed serious violations of the fourth geneva convention. it is worth noting that while the palestinian side, although criticized through the report, accepts international law and calls for its application, israel refuses to do so. while some are trying to weaken the report's validity, we call on the member states of the european union to stand up to the principles governing international law and the european union and to support the discussion of the report in the un general assembly and the notification to the security council with a view to its final ratification and action. the report should reach the international court of justice in the hague. if the european union is genuinely interested in solving the palestinian problem, then it must stop tolerating crimes, because tolerance translates into encouragement and complicity. in addition, in the light of the findings of the report, the suspension of the actions to upgrade eu-israel relations and the implementation of the provisions of the association agreement should be considered immediately. the people of palestine and israel have every right to a future and to life. our obligation is to press for a just solution and peace. the goldstone report should be used to give fresh impetus to the search for a just solution.
mr president, the goldstone report touches on the type of elephants. the equal-distance policy doesn't help. a lot of crimes have been committed in gaza. there is poverty, destitution, brutal suppression of the human rights of the palestinian people. there's evidence of that. there are reports from the red cross, the world bank, the council of europe on crimes against the palestinians, on economic misery, on the inhumane living conditions in gaza. let's not be too blind. humanity has been witnessing atrocities against the palestinians for several years. israel's war machine is striking relentlessly under the guise of self-defense. the palestinian people are suffering. we condemn the killing of civilians in israel with all the strength of our souls. but that does not give israel the right to defend itself by perpetuating a torrent of crimes against the palestinians. it does not give israel an alibi to commit such criminal acts. we're certainly not prosecutors. but we're not meant to be pontius pilate: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east. we are so godless and ineffectual that we allow the unwashed to flourish. we let the perpetrator go unpunished by assaulting the victim. we let the justice of the strong prevail against the weak.
mr president, i too express my deepest regret at the biblical disaster that has struck the region of madeira and my full support for the portuguese government. i hope that the tragic toll of the loss of life and the disappearance of persons will not increase. the planet is sending us a distress signal. climate change, combined with the rapid pace of land use and industrial development, is a testament to how vulnerable the environment is becoming. the devastating floods in germany in the past, in countries of eastern and central europe and the fires in greece have still left open wounds. disasters certainly know no national boundaries. i therefore ask the european commission to respond positively to the european parliament's calls for more active action at community level in preventing natural and man-made disasters and their consequences. i also call for immediate support for the victims of madeira. it is very important that there should be an effective community policy and specific emergency funding and a package of measures for immediate damage repair without bureaucratic procedures. my condolences to the families of the victims.
mr president, european obesity day is an initiative which brings together medical, patients’ and political communities to support overweight and obese european citizens. its objective is to establish 22 may as the annual european obesity day, raise awareness of the need for action at european level and ensure that the voices of overweight and obese patients are heard. obesity is a disease, not a problem. each member state should face the challenge and provide efficient support to this population group. according to the world health organisation, the statistics on obesity in the whole of europe – not just the eu – are staggering, reaching epidemic proportions. if no action is taken, there will be an estimated 150 million obese adults – 20% of the population – and 15 million obese children and adolescents – 10% of the population – in the region by 2020. we must therefore strengthen the voice of obese and overweight patients.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, there is now a strong feeling, confirmed by the treaty of lisbon and by the commission's own positions, that consumer protection policy must focus on ensuring a healthy market in which consumers can operate with safety and confidence. this logic is based on the fact that as consumers feel more comfortable and confident in the market and cross-border trade is encouraged, competitiveness will increase and consumers will be given a wider choice of products and services at more competitive prices. we do not agree with the view that efficient and flexible consumer markets are fundamental factors in competitiveness and the well-being of citizens. the economic crisis has shown that we need to be guided by the particular circumstances of each country and not by the dogmatic transfer of a single model, namely unfettered competition. we believe that competitiveness is not directly linked to the well-being of citizens, because it is more favourable to businesses, since it has been proven that price reductions have not been to the benefit of consumers as a whole. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the only policy which can establish and raise the level of consumer protection is one which puts people and their well-being at the centre and not the increase in competition. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a serious infringement of the directive is a welcome one, but it is also a step in the right direction, since it is a step towards the creation of a european consumer protection area. we perceive the existence of a consumer scoreboard as a tool for recording the satisfaction index in a specific context and time point. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not misused. in addition, any evaluation should be based on socially measurable objectives. we also note that, since the table is primarily intended to record consumer complaints, particular emphasis should be placed on measures to be taken against profiteering.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it is frightening to imagine a nuclear device, small in size but potentially lethal for millions of people, falling into the hands of terrorists. some years back we could say that this was highly unlikely. we cannot say this any longer. countries like iran and north korea are in the process of acquiring, or have the capability to acquire, a nuclear weapon. a scientist from pakistan has allegedly sold know-how to iran, and north korea has traded in nuclear material. nobody is against iran acquiring nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, but patience is running thin if iran is buying time in the dialogue with the 5+1, which we support. the dual-track approach and the preparation of smart targeted sanctions by the un security council are warranted. nuclear proliferation is at such a critical point that it has led personalities like henry kissinger to argue that only the move towards total elimination will ensure non-proliferation and global security. so we support an international treaty for the progressive elimination of nuclear weapons, a halt to the production of fissile material, bringing forward the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty, the reduction of nuclear warheads, start etc., bringing all treatment of nuclear fuel under the control of the iaea and strengthening its mandate and its verification powers.
i'm the editor. - the mr president, yesterday i attended a meeting with other colleagues in which shalit's father was present, and i want to say that no one can remain untouched by the drama of this family. that is why our position is that gilad shalit, a member of the israeli armed forces who was captured inside israeli territory on 24 june 2006, meets the criteria to be considered a prisoner of war, according to the third geneva convention. therefore, he should be treated humanely and allowed to communicate. the international red cross should be allowed to visit him, and the family has every right to be informed of his condition and, of course, to visit him. at the same time we express our faith, our desire for this man to be released. but without wishing to minimize what i have said so far, i think it is a little apolitical to think that this issue can be separated from a lot of other palestinians in prison. it is also a humanitarian issue that they are in these prisons. i think we are giving the family false hope if we think that by focusing as a parliament only on the release of this particular man, for whom i repeat our demand for his release, we think we can achieve something. is it not a humanitarian issue that there are dozens of palestinian children in prison who are 16 years old? how can you separate these two issues? we cannot but mention the fact that gaza itself - because it was mentioned earlier that it is living in a slum, and indeed this child is living in a slum - gaza itself, i repeat, is a vast slum. the one and a half million palestinians living there are living a collective punishment. there are 7,200 palestinians in israeli prisons; the number of children in the labour force is increasing, with 270 aged 16 to 18 and 44 under 16. since 1967 to date, 750,000 palestinians have been arrested and imprisoned. we are therefore calling for the release of shalit, but it is apolitical to think that this can be achieved without being linked to a comprehensive picture of palestine. in conclusion, i would like to add that the only region in the world that has a minister for prisoners is palestine! i would like to express once again our love and sympathy to the family and hope that this problem will soon be resolved.
i think we have dealt with the greek question fairly and sufficiently. i would like to raise a matter which concerns other countries. mr schulz has said that today the interest rate in europe is 2-3%. i want to tell you that in cyprus today the interest rate is 6%. the banks are on their knees on this level and nothing can change that picture. we believe that the council must also work towards this in the future, so that we do not see other countries falling into the same trap as greece. i'd like to make two suggestions: we gave billions to the banks with the goal of rolling the economy. wouldn't it be better if the government gave this money as interest on the first home loan, as long as the consumer went to the cashier to pay his installment? and a second sentence: could we not see the imposition of taxes on large cross-border transactions between states? and a phrase for a minute, madam president; excuse me , but i want to say this: one minute does not allow one to make a point. in the end, it's a humiliation to be reduced to saying slogans.
mr president, last week’s riots have led kyrgyzstan into a political, judicial and economic crisis. its constitutional court was practically disbanded and the interim government’s actions appear uncoordinated. meanwhile, the brother of kurmanbek bakiyev has announced that the handwritten resignations statement is a fake and that bakiyev did not himself resign. according to eye-witnesses, new local groups trying to take over regional governments have emerged. similarly, ethnic-based groupings appear, creating fear of more ethnic violence. criminal groups operate freely in the country. large numbers of weapons are being circulated and robberies are taking place. safety, security and the interests of the eu citizens in this country are still endangered. the present interim government is unable to counter any of these threats. the situation is completely unclear for the local people. high representative ashton has issued two statements expressing her concern, but more active and practical actions are urgently needed instead. it is important that the eu take a decisive position on the situation in kyrgyzstan in this strategically important country. we need to be more present there, cooperating with the un, usa and osce to defend the interests of kyrgyzstani and eu citizens who are currently unable to protect their lives and defend their property. it is clear that the eu should pursue an independent investigation into the causes and effects of the riots. about the material resources of the kyrgyz bank and the agency for investment and development: they need to be evaluated before assigning any further financial assistance. inactivity and hesitancy on the eu’s part and an absence of real strategy and tactics may lead to very dangerous developments and undermine the eu’s own economic and political interests and credibility in the region and in the rest of the world.
mr president, lady ashton, in the 20 years of its independence kyrgyzstan has been ruled by corrupt regimes and little progress has been made towards improving democratic institutions. the european union has been a member of the osce for the last 15 years, and i can assure you that i have been personally involved in that. the people who ruled until yesterday and the people who overthrew them are all components of the same corrupt system. as we speak, the military is inside the capital making searches and arrests. we must give the present government a chance, however, because we are in the last stage before the civil war and before the dismemberment of the country. the people of kyrgyzstan are a peace-loving people and i imagine that many of you have come to know them through the books of the famous writer genghis ahtamatov, who was ambassador in brussels until four years ago. however, economic hardship and social inequalities, as well as foreign interference, are causing explosions that can sometimes reach the limits of civil war - and here i will argue a little bit whether the people of kyrgyzstan can avert terrorism. as i said, the danger of kyrgyzstan being divided into north and south is real and is being cultivated by foreign actors, while the country's participation in the osce and the continued presence of the osce in kyrgyzstan, does not seem to have borne fruit in the direction of democratization. of course, there is a permanent humanitarian crisis that may not be acute, but there has been no modernization and no improvement in democratic institutions over the years. the world lives far below the poverty line. the european parliament must therefore intervene in consultation with the other institutions of the european union, the commission and the council, and review the strategy followed so far in the region. a strong european parliament delegation must monitor the process of democratization and allocate funds in a controlled manner to develop institutions and education, because the destabilization of kyrgyzstan is a major risk of destabilization throughout central and east asia and europe. the european union must act now if it is to play an effective peacekeeping role.
member of the commission. − i had understood it was until 8 p.m., but, as i have already said, you have the chair and it is up to you to decide what i should do, so i shall continue. the financial crisis which has also evolved into a macroeconomic crisis has been the worst in post-second world war history in terms of both magnitude and global coverage. the crisis took a heavy toll on the global economy, including the eu and the euro-area countries. as such it unavoidably affected cyprus, a very small, open economy. according to provisional estimates released by the cypriot statistical service, the gross domestic product of cyprus appears to have contracted by 1.7% in real terms in 2009. this is the first time economic activity in cyprus recorded a negative growth rate over the last 35 years. these unfavourable economic conditions, coupled with the fading-out of the asset boom and an expansionary fiscal policy partly due to measures adopted within the framework of the european economic recovery plan, led to a deterioration of the public finances. according to the latest notification of gdp-related data from the cypriot authorities transmitted in march 2010 and currently under validation by eurostat, the general government balance reached a deficit of 6.1% of gdp and the general government gross debt attained 56.25% of gdp in 2009. the stability and growth pact requires the commission to prepare a report whenever an actual or planned deficit of a member state exceeds 3% of gdp reference value. currently the commission is in the process of preparing such a report for cyprus. once the report is ready it will be presented to the council, which should decide whether the deficit is excessive. if the council concludes this is the case, it would make recommendations to cyprus and would establish deadlines for effective corrective action to be taken. in the mean time the cypriot government has also sent its updated stability programme. the programme spells out the medium-term budgetary strategy until 2013. currently, the commission is in the process of assessing the update and preparing its recommendation for a council opinion on the programme.
mr president, commissioner, it would be very embarrassing if you did not answer the question once it has been put. in any event, i would like to know whether cyprus is in danger of being placed under surveillance and whether you are satisfied with the convergence programme. i am sure that you have mentioned something about evaluation, but i would like to know whether you are satisfied with the convergence programme submitted by the government.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would remind you that in this amendment we are calling on the commission to consider changing the regulation on direct trade of the european union with the areas of cyprus not under the control of the republic of cyprus.
in writing. − i vote against the motion for resolution on the consequences of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon for ongoing interinstitutional decision-making procedures as it includes the regulation about the so called “direct trade” between the eu and the occupied part of the republic of cyprus. the legal basis of the regulation is absolutely wrong, as the european commission chose article 133 of the treaty – now article 207(2) after the lisbon treaty – which addresses issues with third countries. using such a legal basis would be against protocol 10 on cyprus that clearly provides that the republic of cyprus entered the eu as complete territory with the suspension of the union acquis in the northern part of the island due to the turkish occupation. the existing legal basis of the regulation insults the sovereignty and the territorial integrity of a member state of the eu, the republic of cyprus, and it is against the principles and the values upon which the eu is founded and the european parliament should respect and promote as the beacon of the european democracy.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the situation in thailand is deteriorating by the hour; human lives are at stake; it appears to be a much more important item for an urgency debate for this parliament to deal with on thursday. at the same time, there are some developments to the case of mr ernest vardanyan in the break-away so-called state of transnistria, which the initiators would like to examine. therefore i move for this to be replaced with a discussion on thailand.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the issue of manual work. it is an independent health profession concerned with the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of mechanical diseases of the musculoskeletal system, and the effects of these disorders on the function of the nervous system and general health, through the use of the hands. although chiropractic has its own independent and harmonised university education throughout the european union, it has not yet been recognised in a uniform way in the european union. in order to ensure that patients across the european union have access to the same care and treatment, i would like to invite you to sign the written declaration, which i have prepared with the help and support of other colleagues, for the recognition of chiropractic at the european union level.
madam president, i too join my voice in welcoming this compromise because it highlights the democratic shortcomings that women have faced over time, especially when they helped their selfemployed husbands in trade, the craft industry, small and mediumsized enterprises and the professions, without, of course, recognizing their work over time. the selfemployed and their partners, the majority of whom are women, have rights. they are not invisible workers, they have rights to social security, health care, old age pension, maternity leave, parental leave, paternity leave. the woman sacrifices herself over time for the husband, his career, for the child, for the family, offering cheap labor without pay. often, after divorce or the death of a husband, she is left uncovered with no benefits or compensation. the present compromise addresses some existing inequalities. but there is an undeniable need to further empower women, to promote women's entrepreneurship equality issues, especially at a time of economic crisis and when the european union is planning its policy for the next day, for the european union 2020.
the behaviour of the markets and of the banks is like a pack of wolves, as the swedish minister for finance has described it, a pack of wolves ready to devour the economically weak states. greece was the first victim, followed by spain and portugal. we have seen in the case of greece how the speculators are being ruthlessly beaten and how community solidarity is being expressed very slowly and under very harsh conditions, forcing the greek people to make unbearable sacrifices and to go on justified strikes. it seems that the international financial crisis has now become a state crisis, not a banking crisis. let us learn from our suffering. the european union needs more community solidarity, better supervision of the financial system, strengthened national compliance with the stability pact, increased coordination of fiscal policy, prevention of imbalances in competitiveness. the peoples of europe are demanding a more humane europe, with less inequality between member states. it is now time for a more realistic and people-centred agenda for the european union in 2020, responsive to the challenges of the times.
mr president, the existing lisbon strategy has simply been renamed the eu 2020 strategy. the commission's proposals as a whole do not in fact overturn the existing objectives, which have not only not been achieved, but the course of the last ten years has shown the decline in the living standards of the citizens of the european union. the commission's proposals on the table, however, do not include enough social criteria. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of work organization, such as the social security system, which is a major obstacle to the free movement of workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are convinced that if the stability pact is not replaced by a pact for the achievement of social objectives, the noose around the people's necks will tighten even more and greater sacrifices will be required.
i would like to begin by thanking mr peillon for the work he has done. the report calls on the governments of the member states of the union for the mediterranean to establish an open dialogue, in the framework of mutual respect and mutual understanding, with the promotion of human rights and freedoms, and this is something we support. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i understand the logic behind this phrase, which is probably considered to be helpful in the launching of the union for the mediterranean, as expressed by mr peillon. but on the other hand, to play the blind and pretend that nothing is "running" in gaza, for example, is a very big mistake that makes us live with the dust over the problems. i am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that in the european union we are gradually learning to live with problems rather than to solve them. we must be more active on the essential issues that concern us. there is no mention of the need for israel to move towards an immediate, just and lasting settlement of the palestinian question. there is no mention of the need for turkey to show the necessary respect to all the member states of the union for the mediterranean. the fact that a member state is obliged to withdraw its turkish occupation troops is a necessary act of respect, as a minimum of what i would call european justice. the mediterranean, dear friends, has been raining down a few thousand towns and villages, different cultures with unifying elements the same sea for over ten thousand years. but only one city, of these thousands of cities and villages that lie on the shores of the mediterranean, only one city is uninhabited. instead of people, it's inhabited by mice, lizards and snakes. people's homes and memories have been eroded. only the dreams of thousands of people remain, many of whom have died as refugees. isn't it the least we owe the living, to return the city of sandcastle to its people? this should have been a key requirement of the report on the union for the mediterranean, because we are working for unity, not for division in the mediterranean. (the president cut off the speaker)
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, this is an important debate on gaza. we discussed the tragic events and their consequences during monday’s foreign affairs council and i have been in permanent contact with the parties. this is an issue of great importance for the european union, as is evident from the various resolutions that have been tabled. so let me stress at the outset that what happened on the seas outside gaza was unacceptable. we said so immediately, loud and clear. nine people died in international waters under circumstances that demand an inquiry. this must be an inquiry that israelis, palestinians and above all the people of turkey can believe in. israel has announced the creation of an independent commission with the participation of two senior international members as observers. this is a step forward. but the eu will follow closely the conduct and the findings of the commission before drawing further conclusions. the military attack on the flotilla has captured the world’s attention. the loss of life has been tragic. but we need to remind ourselves why the flotilla was heading for gaza in the first place. that underlying cause is the terrible plight of gaza, which is now back on peoples’ radar. honourable members know i have seen it for myself: three months ago when i was the first politician to enter gaza from the israeli side for more than a year. what i saw was shocking. living next to one of the most modern countries in the world, people carry goods by horse and cart. israel rightly boasts an excellent education system, and world-class universities. next door, many children are denied basic schooling. the blockade denies gaza the bricks and cement which the un needs to build new schools, hospitals, housing and sanitation. it is a bizarre situation where flour, beans and margarine are allowed in but vinegar, chocolate and fresh meat are not. the blockade hurts ordinary people, prevents reconstruction and fuels radicalism. the blockade is also not completely effective, but in the wrong way. many goods are smuggled in through illegal tunnels. they do not go to people in need but to those with money and clout. the blockade empowers hamas. it gives outsiders with a very different agenda from ours a chance to escalate tensions. on top of all this, the suffering of gaza does not make israel more secure. this cannot go on. things must change. out of this, two simple questions arise. how can we help to improve the daily lives of the people of gaza and how can we make sure that there is security for the people of israel? we have to answer these questions together. if we try to do it separately, we will fail. on monday, european union foreign ministers agreed that we must take this initiative, take concrete steps to tackle the gaza crisis and use it as a catalyst for peace in this troubled region. it will not be easy to find an agreed way to lift the blockade. it needs the cooperation of both israel and the palestinian authority. the eu and many others have long called for an end to the blockade. but the political parameters have changed. the circumstances are now different. first, we need to open the crossings so that humanitarian aid, commercial goods and civilians can enter and exit gaza normally. that is in line with our well-established position and with security council resolutions. but, most importantly, it was laid down in the 2005 agreement on movement and access agreed between the palestinian authority and israel in 2005. this agreement is the key framework. second, instead of a list of a very restricted number of products that are allowed in, there should be a short, agreed list of prohibited goods where israel has legitimate security concerns. i hope, from the discussions which i have had, that we will be moving in the right direction on this. third, the european union has people and a mission in rafah that could be reactivated and we are ready to support the opening of other land crossings for goods and people and recalibrating our mission or developing a new one. we are working hard on all action tracks. i have created a task force to bring together all the relevant departments and expertise and will chair its first meeting on friday. we will send an exploratory mission shortly to see how we can best contribute to a solution which works for the people of gaza and addresses the concerns of israel. the wider issue here is that lifting the blockade should help to bring peace. gaza is an integral part of a future palestinian state. so we need to work on reunifying the west bank with gaza in the same way that we must help the reconciliation of the palestinian people. these are all essential ingredients for the two-state solution that remains our goal. finally, it is positive that we have succeeded in preserving the israeli-palestinian proximity talks, and our arab partners deserve credit for this. the quartet should play an important role in engaging the parties and setting the direction for our collective efforts to end gaza’s dangerous isolation and to work for peace in the region. i know that the house will join me in that ambition.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, if anybody should insist the most for the inquiry to be impartial, transparent and credible, under the supervision of international authorities, it should be israel. a first step in the right direction was decided by the israelis. more is needed to inspire confidence in the international community. the gaza blockade must be lifted. president obama stated that it is unsustainable. hamas is the sole beneficiary of this blockade. it finances itself from the lucrative transactions of smuggling goods through the numerous tunnels which are then distributed only to those palestinians who yield to them. an entire population suffers and the israelis have won nothing. gilad shalit is still in captivity. madam high representative, i am sure that your task should be to coordinate, work with and support those international actors in their efforts to reopen the points of terrestrial passage, particularly karni, that have the capacity to transit goods. an effective mechanism can be agreed for tracing the distribution of aid and aiming at the reconstruction. in the mean time, efforts for the reconciliation of the different palestinian factions must be intensified and the palestinian authority must recover control of gaza. finally, israel’s security concerns must be met.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, on the morning of 31 may the israeli army attacked by air and sea the freedom flotilla carrying humanitarian supplies to the residents of gaza, brazenly killing nine activists and wounding dozens of others, some of whom are watching us from the back door at this very moment. this is not the first time that israeli armed forces have committed crimes against humanity. for 23 consecutive days and nights they have been mercilessly hammering gaza, which was crowded with 1.5 million people, causing the death of 1,400, destroying the material infrastructure and leaving behind ashes and remains. were they forced to answer for this crime to anyone? every day the occupying powers undermine international efforts to find a solution to a problem they have been perpetuating for six decades. they continue to extend the separation wall, build new settlements, drive peaceful palestinians from their homes in east jerusalem. has israel been held accountable for this flagrant violation of human rights? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must not be satisfied with the fact that this is how we are doing our job. we must work individually and collectively to bring the guilty to justice and to lift the inhumane blockade of gaza and to bring peace to the region. we owe it to the dead activists, to the victims on both sides of the long-running conflict, to the people of israel and palestine.
madam president, iceland is a small island country, one of the oldest democracies in europe with one of the strongest economies in the world. it has recently been caught in the eye of the international economic, financial and monetary crisis. it has seen the collapse of its largest banks and experienced the plunge of its national currency, with the consequent rise in unemployment, business failures, high interest rates. the need to organise the financial supervision and deposit guarantee system is therefore urgent and pressing. the fact that iceland is looking forward to joining the european union sends a message of confidence in the european construction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. its membership of the european union will strengthen the european union's presence in the arctic and open a new chapter in two-way communication on fisheries and whaling issues. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, in our view, the policy of the majority of the member states of the european union on the kosovo issue is in conflict with the very spirit of european politics, which is, i believe, cooperation and political consensus. all this in the case of kosovo was forgotten and we did not try to help the serbs and the kosovars as much as we could towards cooperation and political consensus. what was imposed at the end is the separation. i think it's good to tell the truth. the position which prevails today in the european union was based on the violence of the past, but the situation which we are supporting today is also the result of our own imposition of force. a solution, to be viable, must be agreed by all the parties concerned, to be stable. we must not rely on the inability of states to defend their sovereignty to create small independent entities. the unilateral declaration also conflicts with resolution 1244, which states that serbia's sovereignty over the territories in kosovo continues. the report makes frequent references to the principle that all states should follow the same course. but that cannot be enforced. the report also makes frequent reference to the recognition of concepts such as 'kosovo principles, cross-border relations, etc.'... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the common agricultural policy was designed to ensure europe's autonomy in food production. in the 1970s, almost 70% of the eu budget went to agriculture. but after a series of competitive reforms, agricultural expenditure in the budget fell to 35% for the 2007-2013 financial period. unfortunately, the revised cap is now being designed under the same conditions of competitiveness as the previous policy. it is a provocation to use the pretext of the economic crisis to cut off farmers' benefits. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the main objective of the new cap should be to promote a production model compatible with a healthy diet, environmental protection and the fight against carbon dioxide emissions. we must not forget that the agrochemical model of conventional agriculture is seriously responsible for the greenhouse effect and climate change, and that this model must be changed precisely because it is against farmers, peoples and the planet's biodiversity.
mr. president, sometimes you see us up here, on top of the himalayas. mr president of the commission, your vision of a europe of justice, freedom, democracy, prosperity and a modern, high-moral political order is very important. i wish i had time to analyze what cami said, but i don't. this vision is also our vision, and that is why my country, the small island of cyprus, has given so much for the freedom and democracy of europe and the world. it fought hard to get into the european union. so why, mr president, are you undermining and destroying this vision, which is also your own? why is it allowed to try to undermine the basic principles and values on which the union is founded? i am referring to the case of cyprus, where your insistence on the application of article 207 of the lisbon treaty to the regulation on direct trade violates the accession treaty and in particular protocol 10 on the accession of the whole of cyprus to the european union and undermines cyprus' sovereignty in the air but also solidarity with the member states and the credibility of the union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, i come from a journalistic background and i think i know very well to what extent freedom of speech exists in europe today. i think there is freedom of speech, but it belongs to the media owners, it belongs to the channel owners. it is also, to some extent, for those who have a secure income or secure employment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. i'll go to the commissioner and say there's a way to increase the power of the journalist. can a reporter have a job if his story conflicts with the owner? can he go to a body and ask to exercise his right to free speech, regardless of whether what he says conflicts with what the owner believes? can we as the european union create a body to which the journalist can turn and know, feel, that he will have work the next day? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. these are fighters. but we must work to ensure that all journalists enjoy this freedom. i'll close with a reference to the internet, where we get to the other side of things. there, freedom of speech often borders on uncivilized. how is this thing controlled, who says what, who curses, who threatens through the internet without there being a way to control the "freedom" that exists there.
mr president, the european union is indeed building a common foreign and defence policy, and there is no doubt that there should be certain protocols governing the conduct of military industries towards third countries. but it is through the subject of this debate that my own question is raised and i feel i must put it to the house today. how can we justify the fact that military industries, particularly those of the united kingdom, are applying a trade embargo against the republic of cyprus and its military forces, at a time when cyprus is a member state of the european union, while at the same time turkey is allowed to modernise, move and transport equipment and military material within the occupied republic of cyprus?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the proposed bill follows a broader campaign to legitimize the struggle to defend human rights in israel, silencing the opposing voices inside, while complementing similar acts of intimidation such as the arrests in the protests against the war in gaza in the past. last may, the foreign affairs directorate-general noted a deterioration in the conditions of ngos in israel. however, since then, the european union has never publicly condemned the decisions on the proposed legislation, nor has it publicly called on israel to respect the freedom of expression of its citizens. the european union cannot declare its faith in the rule of law, acknowledge the dangers, but turn a blind eye to the lack of respect for human rights. it must be placed in public, calling on israel to withdraw the bill. at a time when eu-funded ngos are under attack and their community financial support is being undermined, the european union cannot continue to strengthen its relations with israel. it should impose conditions for the continuation of commercial activities and suspend the association agreement until the state of israel respects freedom of expression and association. the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the basis of the following criteria:
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the referendum on constitutional changes in turkey has had a positive outcome but is only a small step towards the full development of individual policies and trade union freedoms. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the kurdish region, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the region is not further worsened. it is regrettable that legislation has not yet been secured in line with the standards of the international labour organisation, which establishes full respect for the rights of trade union organisation, strike and collective bargaining. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we welcome the fact that, through this report, the european parliament is sending a firm message to turkey. the selective application - or rather the non-application - of the additional protocol to the eu-turkey association agreement is unacceptable without seriously affecting the accession negotiations. therefore, if turkey wants the turkish cypriot community to trade with the european union, instead of looking for indirect ways of recognising an entity which, under international law and un resolutions, is illegal, it should accept the proposal of the president of the republic of cyprus, dimitris christofias, to return through the un to the legal residents of famagusta and to place trade in the port of this city under the auspices of the european union. this proposal, which is not feasible, can make a real contribution to the economic strengthening of the turkish cypriot community and at the same time provide a framework for deepening the efforts to bring the two communities closer to each other on the island.
mr president, turkey has benefited from its longstanding customs relationship with the eu. however, in order to make the customs relationship even more functional, many outstanding issues need to be addressed immediately. turkey needs to better align its trade policies and regional trade, reduce red tape, counterfeit products, violations of trade unionists' and minorities' human rights, address the low level of women's participation in the labour market and promote youth employment. the main tasks are to implement fully the additional protocol to the association agreement, lift the embargo on cypriot ships and aircraft, recognise the republic of cyprus, comply with the acquis communautaire and respect the conventions of the international labour organisation on trade unionism, the right to strike and collective bargaining.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to an initiative which many of you are already aware of but which needs more support from us: the so-called 'model european council'. through this initiative, and thanks to the organisation of a virtual plenary session in strasbourg, many young europeans are trying to better understand how the european union works. it is important, in times of low voter turnout and general apathy, to support and help those who are interested and want to contribute to the process of european union integration. so, in the run-up to this year's model european council, i invite you to meet the members of your national delegations to give them a real taste of how we work. the more we promote this initiative, the more valuable it will be for the future of europe that we are building here.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. our contribution is that, in addition to all that has been said about early warning systems, solidarity funds, operational cooperation, we have attached particular importance to the fact that, when it comes to the provision of assistance, the principle of non-discriminatory treatment must be followed. that is, aid to affected areas must be granted in accordance with existing needs without discrimination on the basis of race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, origin, or other characteristics of recipients who are victims of such man-made or natural disasters. we also recall that in disaster and emergency situations, basic human rights are at risk and must be protected.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, it is well known that africa in particular, and other regions of the world beset by poverty and democratic deficits, are the soft underbelly of the international system. i have undertaken to draw up this report - with the help of all the political groups, of course - in the firm belief that the european union can help to combat poverty in many ways, and above all by creating jobs. and of course the european union must help the half of the world's population who live below the poverty line. given the lack of confidence and suspicion of the peoples of the developing countries towards the developed ones, and the possible reaction of the peoples of europe to the continuing bleeding of the financing of the poor, we tried to make clear from the outset that the development of the third world would be of considerable benefit to the european union itself, in a pan-european way: for example, job creation can address uncontrolled immigration and, at the same time, reduce instability in poor countries. of course, also taking into account that the basic condition for development is the establishment, restoration and improvement of democracy and democratic institutions and the functioning of democratization institutions, and of course the safeguarding of human rights and the rights of children as well as the action and participation of civil society, we have included this factor as particularly important. we have paid particular attention to improving the training and the free choice of residence of scientists and specialists in their countries. special attention was paid to the aids pandemic and related conditions as particularly aggravating factors contributing to the perpetuation of the vicious circle of poverty, and measures were identified to address these factors so that they do not constitute a hindrance to development and poverty reduction. finally, we have taken into account the many unsuccessful efforts made by the world community and all the international conventions with which the world has tried to deal with poverty. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i don't think they have much practical significance if we really want to tackle poverty.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am pleased to be here today to discuss the preparations of the 13th eu-china summit. the summit is particularly important this year, as we are celebrating the 35th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the eu and china, and using for the first time the set-up provided by the lisbon treaty. at last week’s european council, heads of state and government discussed the challenges and opportunities for the eu when dealing with strategic partners such as china. this had been prepared at the informal gymnich meeting of eu foreign ministers that i attended together with hr/vp ashton and several other commissioners the weekend before. there is a need and a willingness to act in a more integrated and coherent way. we need to know better what we want from strategic partners and have the same message with 27 voices. eu-china relations have grown immensely over the last 35 years, in particular in the economic field. we are important trading partners for each other. european businesses are benefiting from continued growth in china. but more needs to be done to open the chinese market further and to improve the implementation of rules, for example, in the area of public procurement and intellectual property rights. this 13th eu-china summit is the first under the post-lisbon structure. we want to take a forward-looking perspective and act as partners to address global challenges such as climate change, the need to maintain open markets and equal access to raw materials, international stability and the rule of law. we will look at the role of the various eu-china political and sectoral dialogues. the partnership and cooperation agreement will be discussed, in particular its dimension to provide a legal and institutional framework for the further development of our partnership. human rights are the silver thread of eu foreign policy. even though significant differences continue, it is important that we discuss human rights and the rule of law during the upcoming summit. we can also build on some concrete positive examples, such as the eu-china law school. the 13th eu-china summit takes place a few weeks before two crucial international events, namely the g20 summit in seoul in november and the climate change summit in cancún in december. finding common ground with china in order to align their position to our priorities would be an important objective of this summit. it is also important to address misperceptions and to build people-to-people links. a cultural forum will therefore be held for the first time in the margins of the summit. that is also why 2011 will be designated europe-china year of youth with the objective of strengthening mutual understanding between european and chinese youth and promoting intercultural dialogue. this focus will continue in 2012 with the europe-china year of intercultural dialogue. the summit follows a very rich year in terms of political dialogue, packed with several important high-level meetings held earlier this year, including the college visit led by president barroso and cathy ashton’s visit to china for the first round of the strategic dialogue in early september. a meeting of the high level economic and trade dialogue is planned for november. commissioners almunia, rehn and myself will lead the eu delegation consisting of several commissioners. honourable members, we all share the goal of china developing further, becoming more open and transparent, adhering to international standards on human rights, welcoming international and european businesses on a level playing field and working together to address global challenges. to achieve this we must continue to engage and deepen our cooperation. this will allow us to move the relationship further and – on the way – address difficult issues for us and for china. the october summit provides us with the next opportunity to take stock of our relationship, and to discuss where we want to take it in the coming years.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, a globalised multilateral world, along with the challenges of climate change, security of energy supply, nuclear non-proliferation, iran and north korea, collective security issues like terrorism and piracy, and the peace efforts in volatile regions like the middle east, warrants a strategic partnership between china and the eu. the eu is china’s largest trade partner and china is the eu’s second largest trade partner. china is the biggest source of manufactured imports. the trade deficit in favour of china is partly due to difficulties in accessing chinese markets. high on the agenda of the efforts to upgrade the partnership and cooperation agreement are the non-tariff barriers to markets, intellectual property rights and access to public procurement. in our relationship with china we pursue our mutual interests but also our values. in the context of political dialogue and on an equal footing, the eu encourages china’s transition to an open society based on the rule of law and respect for human rights. we advocate human rights for the people of tibet and other chinese provinces, but with full respect for the territorial integrity of china. we welcome the recent agreements with taiwan, but in respect of the one china policy. the global economic crisis has proven global interdependence. we welcome china’s economic progress and recovery, as a factor of stability, and we urge a further appreciation of the renminbi for the world’s monetary order without distortions.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - i have to propose an oral amendment with the following text which i read in english. (continues in english) the commission is not prepared to do so. - the i will read the english text: calls on the european union and the g20 to take concrete action to eradicate abuses of tax havens, tax evasion and illicit financial flights from developing countries and to promote these resources to be invested in developing countries. we would like to add a phrase after the first three words and the g20 and to replace the word allow with the verb promote.
member of the commission. - as you know, the set plan approved by you contains the necessary funds. we will have to decide in the next few weeks in the commission - first in retrospect and then in prospect - whether and for what we propose budgetary resources in the energy investment area, and then have them discussed and approved by you and the member states. i would like to say, without being uncollegial, that i believe that the funds included in the set plan and the economic programmes should be continued where they have proved their worth. i will therefore be fighting for the permanent funding of infrastructure in the investment sector, both for europe-wide infrastructure and for the necessary upgrading of local authorities and households, and i am counting on your support.
member of the commission. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national experts to assess the impact of the reforms on the greek energy sector. the opening up of the market to competition is expected to increase the efficiency of resource allocation, to secure growth and jobs in the energy sector and to have an impact on other economic sectors. it is up to greece to decide how best to reorganise its energy sector within the framework of eu legislation for the internal energy market. unbundling, i.e. ownership of the electricity grid and its reorganisation, is an effective measure to promote competition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the network is not subject to any form of privatisation. the same applies to the sale of part of the lignite and hydroelectric power stations to the state electricity company. and that, as i said, is about revenue and about competition. it is a matter for the greek state how this is done on the basis of eu law. the aim is to provide appropriate compensation for the fact that public power corporation is currently the sole operator benefiting from the power plants. as regards lignite power stations, greece is now in default and will and must meet its obligations arising from the commission's competition decisions. we are in good dialogue with the greek government. it's important to me. the government there is currently fulfilling obligations in the budgetary and monetary spheres which are considerable. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. as far as consumer prices are concerned, the government has established numerous tariff categories. they are inconsistent and in many cases do not take account of wholesale prices, i.e. production costs. the ministry is therefore currently working to rationalize prices. we believe that consumer prices should generally be set on the basis of cost, in order to also provide incentives for the consumer to save energy and to give the utilities the right investments. electricity prices in greece are currently quite low, partly because of the low cost of coal-fired power stations, the fall in demand for cheap hydroelectricity due to heavy rainfall in the last two years and the economic crisis. other factors such as the increasing use of expensive fuels such as gas and rising environmental costs will be added in the coming years, so that prices in greece will rise. the decreasing hydropower capacity due to normal rainfall will also drive up prices. these are price drivers independent of market liberalisation. in view of the structural factors which affect prices, it is all the more important to make the systems as efficient as possible and to keep all price increases for the economy and households at the lowest possible level.
mr president, commissioner, the updated imf/eu memorandum on greece states that the government will adopt a mechanism to ensure that electricity tariffs regulated by it gradually reflect wholesale market prices, by june 2013 at the latest. in other words, we are asking the greek government to raise the price of electricity at the expense of consumers and especially vulnerable groups and the economy. what will be the impact of these measures on production and growth in greece? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and finally, just last week, we got a response from mr rehn about the inflation surge reaching 5.6%. what will be the impact of these measures on inflation?
mr president, the general feeling is that accidents of this kind, like the last one and a number of similar accidents in the past, make it necessary, and i congratulate the rapporteur in particular, to make some predictions about the course of all these mining operations taking place in this period and the previous ones. it is true that the degree of control of these installations is a very important factor and must therefore be increased and carried out at shorter intervals, and it is also true that liability must be imputed, and indeed can be imputed exclusively. this will inevitably lead to a change in insurance law, and therefore will also inevitably lead to these companies being insured against all the adverse events that may follow such an event.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. we also know that its nature is essentially pre-determined on the basis of the 2007-2013 financial framework. so, politically, it's a rigid tool. but what we don't understand - let me say - is this absurdity: the commission's proposals are not only a means of improving the situation in the community, but also a means of ensuring that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic crisis. but over the years, has not the dogma of the so-called free market and the so-called ambitious lisbon strategy allowed the acute phenomena of today's unemployment, the increase in poverty and underemployment? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so why don't they propose bold social change when the current model fails? finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the problem of the missing persons of the cyprus tragedy, a consequence of the turkish invasion, but also of the bicommunal events of the period 1963-1967. we welcome the fact that the european parliament is again approving a budget of eur 3 million for the committee of inquiry into missing persons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i must stress that turkey needs to allow in a systematic and dedicated way the full unraveling of the fate of our missing persons, to give all the information, in military terms, classified.
mr president, i too would like to say that this document is interesting. it is a document which shows the commission's interest, and it is indeed up to the european parliament to use it. i would also like to mention that two issues which are worth mentioning are the question of the use of own resources and the question of agricultural policy.
the european union is indeed at a crossroads, mr president. the international economic crisis has reduced growth, worsened unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. the rescue measures were positive, despite serious weaknesses. however, it is clear that more community solidarity and coordination between national recovery plans is needed. the european parliament calls on the commission to do more for europe, to reduce bureaucracy, to support small and mediumsized enterprises, to create more jobs, to provide more financial resources to finance projects in vital sectors, and to strengthen the regulatory, supervisory and coordination system for the european union's economic, fiscal and social policies. i too support the development of a common monetary fund to monitor european economic governance effectively. finally, proud of the great nobel laureate, christoph pissalides, i invite the european parliament to invite him to discuss his views on tackling unemployment and contemporary challenges.
mr president, i would like to make a brief reference to the subject of democracy and its support by financial means from abroad. we believe that democracy is a human achievement that must be preserved. but is democracy as we know it, democracy as we want it and as we must export it? i am absolutely convinced that the first thing we must do is to deepen democracy in our area. when there is a country where abstention reaches and exceeds 50%, what kind of democracy can we talk about? and when millions of people are unemployed, can we talk about democracy? and when democracy is expressed not so much through elected representatives, but is expressed and controlled primarily by the media, then what do we say? is this a democracy that we can be proud of and even want to export? i believe that there are indeed peoples who may need help in order to obtain their rights to meaningful support and acceptance by their governments. but shouldn't this be done with very little and after a lot of study for possible negative rather than positive effects? can anyone say that the funding of democracy in afghanistan has pushed democracy forward? i think we have a lot more to do to make our democracy an example to be followed than to fund people to follow us.
mr president, i too would like to join my voice to those who say that there is no reason to have a resolution so soon, and particularly before the elections, before the visit and even more so before the presence of the european parliament in ukraine. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. any resolution will have meaning if it is made after the expected elections in ukraine.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, we believe that cooperation must not exclude independence. we believe that the european union must develop its self-respect. we believe that good cooperation requires respect for each other's independence. we believe that the dialogue and the relationship between the european union and the united states should be based on mutual understanding and autonomy. so among the many serious issues i would like to raise, i would like to highlight the following as matters primarily of our own responsibility: the need to put real pressure on israel to resolve the palestinian issue and on turkey to resolve the cyprus issue, the urgent need to abolish the death penalty in the united states, the failure of president obama to keep his promise to close the guantanamo base, the need to defend - and i use the word deliberately - personal data and finally the huge issue of global climate. we must put pressure on the united states to take on its real responsibilities.
mr president, the world’s centre of gravity is steadily shifting from the west towards the east, with the emergence of new global powers like china and india. in this new context, while the eu remains the first commercial power in the world and the us continues to be the first commercial partner of the eu, our cooperation is much more than that: it is a core element of the international system as it is based on common values, historic ties and strategic interests, which is not always the case for other strategic partners. from an alliance of necessity during the cold war, the transatlantic partnership has evolved into an alliance of choice. the emergence of a multi-polar world dictates the need for a new definition of modalities for cooperation between the two sides on all existing bilateral and global issues. we reiterate the eu council’s conclusions of last september, asking for fresh impetus to be given to the transatlantic relationship and for renewed reflection on ways of creating a true partnership based on our respective strengths and specificities. the transatlantic partnership should concentrate on maximising the potential benefits of our economic relationship, with the reinforcement of the transatlantic economic council. unilateral actions such as the quantitative easing by the federal reserve are as worrying as the depreciation of the renminbi.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's new document on the single market, madam president, we believe follows the logic of the lisbon strategy, which has admittedly failed. we believe that competition should be subject to strict rules and also, as the crisis has shown, to state intervention. consumers must be protected from the ill-gotten gains created by the control of markets by the oligopoly and efficient public services must compensate for market failures. the commission proposal chooses to ignore the lack of effective social protection and ignores the real conditions in many of the countries of europe today. while the european commission is ready to take a whole series of measures to help businesses, it is making no progress in the field of consumer protection, repeating previous formulations on the need for impact studies. so no progress has been made for consumers. how can the public be convinced that this directive is relevant to them? what's changed from the past? consumer and worker protection must be a central point of reference for any legislative initiative of the european union. in particular, public utilities of general economic interest should not be covered by competition law, single market legislation or rules on the regulation of subsidies or the liberalisation of public procurement. universal access to high quality public services should be the main political criterion.
madam president, i would like to denounce the deplorable behaviour of the secretariat of the committee of the regions in relation to a photographic exhibition organised by the displaced municipality of kerynia, the town now occupied by turkish troops, in my own country, cyprus. the photos on display vividly depict the destruction of church and other monuments of the three-thousand-year history of kyrenia. the aim of the destruction is clear: to destroy all evidence that this city was inhabited by people of greek culture and christian faith. people who were forcibly displaced from their homes, who managed, though uprooted in exile, to spread their roots in kerch after 36 years. this report was to be opened by the secretary-general of the committee of the regions, who did not appear, succumbing to the pressure of the turkish occupying power, because the report refers to the invasion of cyprus by that country in 1974 and the destruction of its cultural heritage by the invaders. the secretariat of the committee of the regions was even asked to tear up the report. i denounce this unacceptable action.
mr president, greece, ireland, portugal and spain are experiencing the consequences of the economic crisis. the sacks of hell have already been opened. the commission has already taken action. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it has been a key player in the process of european integration. what is needed instead is community solidarity, political will, vision, confidence in the dynamism of europe and, above all, coordinated action, action for structural change at country level and in the european union, increased employment, increased growth, acceleration, increased jobs, implementation of the eu strategy, rationalisation and consolidation of corporate governance, transparency in economic governance, control of national statistical data, a permanent mechanism for crisis management in the european union, always to the benefit of the european citizen. the crisis affects everyone, not just the individual countries. what is needed is community solidarity and coordination of action.
i would say, mr president, that after the treaty of lisbon it is a given that the european parliament will also be able to contribute much more to energy policy. i would agree with the rapporteur on what she has said and would stress that even more so today, energy policy is directly and indirectly linked to the general foreign policy of both the states and the union itself. i would agree that there is a need today for necessary projects, infrastructure projects, and that there should also be regulations on how agreements are made. today we are calling for clean contracts, transparency and a special reference to renewable energy sources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. this will help the small island states of the union in particular so that everyone in a large market can deal with the big energy issue in a transparent way.
mr president, the question before us is whether in cancun we will be able to take a step forward in terms of climate change. it seems to me that our position, our objectives, are really a pioneering position on the changes needed to prevent ecological disaster. the union's positions remain firm and we must make them clear at this conference, and we must fight to achieve much better results than we had in copenhagen. but it is to be expected, commissioner, that unfortunately it is up to us in the european union to persuade the major powers, especially the united states and china, to contribute to the overall effort to combat climate change. we hope that your efforts will be successful!
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr philip juvin, on his report on the impact of advertising on consumer behaviour. the report assesses existing legislation, highlights problems in its implementation and unfair commercial practices, and points to the importance of self-regulation, the protection of vulnerable groups such as children, adolescents and the elderly, and the need to use advertising as a powerful catalyst to combat stereotypes and tackle prejudice. as the author of the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i am particularly pleased and thank the rapporteur for fully incorporating our recommendations on ensuring gender equality and human dignity, calling on all those involved to work closely together to combat defamatory or misleading advertising that degrades the image of women and to promote healthy standards so that advertising can have a positive influence on society's perceptions, respecting human dignity and gender roles.
madam president, domestic violence, genital mutilation, honour crimes, forced marriages and trafficking are just some of the types of violence against 45% of women across europe. women and minors need improved protection. the european protection order is a good step forward to doing just that, in full compliance with the vision of the stockholm programme for a united europe: an area of freedom, security and justice serving the citizen. protection orders issued in one european country against an offender will thus be enforced in all the other 26 eu member states. the initiative of the spanish presidency, embraced today by all of us, emphasises the protection of victims and prevention, and promotes uniformity in legal order procedures. it empowers victims to break their silence in seeking protection beyond geographical boundaries in europe. i hope the commission fully endorses the report of the two co-rapporteurs in its ambitious package on victims’ rights.
on behalf of the ppe group. – on behalf of mr daul, the chair of our group, i want to ask the following question. the epp group would like to know your views pertaining to the current efforts to resume direct negotiations for the settlement of the palestinian question. the united states has abandoned efforts to convince israel to extend the moratorium on settlements in east jerusalem and the west bank, probably because they are leading nowhere. what efforts are to be undertaken by the eu separately, or in conjunction within the quartet, to get the negotiations under way? in view of the present developments, how should one read the reiteration of the eu’s readiness to recognise an independent palestinian state when appropriate? what is the assessment of the humanitarian situation in the gaza strip after the decision taken by israel in june 2010 to ease the closure of the crossings and the efforts for the liberation of gilad shalit?
president of the commission. – as you know, the european union strongly supports the resumption of direct talks. yesterday, the foreign affairs council expressed the european position, regretting that israel was not able to accept a new freeze of settlements as requested by the european union, the united states and the quartet. i would add that the situation is disappointing, particularly because creating the necessary conditions for a two-state solution is not only in the interests of palestine, the region and the international community at large, but also, i believe, in the interests of israel itself. concerning negotiations, the foreign affairs council also agreed yesterday on intensifying coordination with the quartet and the united states. special envoy senator mitchell will shortly meet catherine ashton to debrief her on the current state of affairs. the european union will convey its full support for the peace process and its full engagement in the region. i believe the quartet could be revitalised, with the european union working very closely with the us. high representative ashton has been in touch with key players in the region, and we are also looking forward to the arab league meeting this week. we need to give negotiations a new chance, a new impetus because stalemate should not be an option. i am convinced that the way forward will be found with the united states.
on behalf of the ppe group. – i would like to ask again about the humanitarian situation in the gaza strip following the opening of the closures, and what is happening with corporal gilad shalit.
president of the commission. − i believe we are not completely prepared for that, which is why the commission recently put forward some proposals on fighting this kind of cyber attack. it was commissioner malmström’s initiative, and now those proposals extend to all kinds of cyber attacks. regarding the cyber attacks that you have mentioned, let me tell you that the united states state department denies having issued any direct instructions to paypal, visa or mastercard, so i do not have any comment to make on decisions by companies to service – or not to service – wikileaks. the commission is against any kind of cyber attack made by one side or the other in that controversial case.
president of the commission. - first of all, we think that what has happened in the united states can happen in virtually any security system. no security system is completely immune to the possibility of a person breaking the law. it is true that in the american system, apparently, according to the information received, hundreds of thousands of individuals have access to highly confidential information, but the truth is that in systems which value freedom, as european systems do, 100% security is impossible. that is why we are determined to work with our american partners and friends to strengthen security, but always with respect for fundamental freedoms, and we think it is important to find, as i said a little while ago, the right balance between these two precautions. it is true that, particularly because of terrorist activities, it is necessary to exchange certain very sensitive information. at the same time we should do so in accordance with the rules of prudence and, in general, observing the principle of fair balance.
president of the commission. − as i said earlier, i cannot comment on specific cases or criminal accusations. regarding mr assange, an accusation has been made by the swedish judicial system and is now being considered by the british judicial system. both sweden and the united kingdom respect the rule of law. we have to let the normal process of law go on. i cannot comment – and i should not comment – precisely because i very much respect the presumption of innocence and everybody’s individual rights. i cannot, therefore, comment on that. regarding the other comments you made about some of the things in wikileaks, i do not think it is right for me to comment. the comments are attributed to united states diplomats and are therefore their responsibility. i cannot comment on them. i can only tell you our position, which is not the same as the united states’ position. our position – the european position – is clear on the matter that you have asked us about. we do not have to comment on specific leaks, whether they come from wikileaks or elsewhere.
mr president, i think we are still missing the point. at least, i think your answers miss the point. first of all, i am very much struck - and i want you to tell me if you are too - by the incredible silence of the european institutions on the suppression of freedom of expression. unfortunately, all the defenders of freedom of speech are absent from this chamber as well. they're gone! my question is: do you see this thing being used to suppress the ability to transmit information? all of us who are crying out for the right to the internet for the chinese, for the cubans - and rightly so - now that there is a literal suppression of this right, what can and should we do? what can and should you do as a committee? the question is therefore: what will you do to enable the european citizen to access the wikileaks website?
madam president, what matters are policies and not who applied them. let him cast the first stone... the crisis of the euro may not end with ireland and we may have not seen the worst yet. the market predators will never endlessly attack any vulnerable opening, despite the painful austerity measures taken by all member states. but if the eu wins this battle, and succeeds in adversity by demonstrating determination to do whatever it takes in solidarity and concerted effort to thwart regulators and convince the markets, then this would be the triumph of european integration and a great victory. this will be achieved as a result of collective wisdom. let us prove wrong those who predict the end of the euro and the withdrawal of countries, strong and weak, from the eurozone. fiscal discipline, economic governance and the rescue of the euro will be incomplete without a mutually agreed plan at european level to stimulate growth. in the past, an american marshall plan saved the economy of europe. the challenge today is an equivalent from europeans for europeans.
in writing. the regulation covers not only the supervision of credit rating agencies by the european securities and markets authority but also the supervision of the use of credit ratings by individual entities supervised at national level. national supervisors will remain responsible for overseeing the use of credit ratings by those individual entities. however, national authorities will not have the power to take supervisory measures against credit rating agencies in the event of infringement of the regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the proposal is implemented in a uniform manner. the proposal creates a system of control which, in the current neoliberal environment, is not intended to be allowed to have any real meaningful application other than its psychologically innovative action, which is mainly aimed at the general public. however, it does not replace an earlier system but rather establishes a new control system that did not exist before, even in this way, which allowed credit rating agencies to behave uncontrollably. in this sense the existence of the system is perhaps better than its absence.
in writing. the regulation covers not only the supervision of credit rating agencies by the european securities and markets authority but also the supervision of the use of credit ratings by individual entities supervised at national level. national supervisors will remain responsible for overseeing the use of credit ratings by those individual entities. however, national authorities will not have the power to take supervisory measures against credit rating agencies in the event of infringement of the regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the proposal is implemented in a uniform manner. the proposal creates a system of control which, in the current neoliberal environment, is not intended to be allowed to have any real meaningful application other than its psychologically innovative action, which is mainly aimed at the general public. however, it does not replace an earlier system but rather establishes a new control system that did not exist before, even in this way, which allowed credit rating agencies to behave uncontrollably. in this sense the existence of the system is perhaps better than its absence.
mr president, i would like to point out that in the matter of economic governance and the objectives set, and much more so as economic governance is set out in the lisbon treaty, specific questions arise as to whether a policy is being pursued which is socially sound, whether an economy is being pursued which aims at green growth and whether an economy is being pursued which prevents unemployment, and particularly unemployment among young people. i would like to mention the republic of cyprus, which is now under surveillance. the measures taken are far from providing an outlet for a sound social policy and social attitude, and they are in particular contrary to the interests of the young generations growing up on the island.
madam president, it is a great pleasure to hear the head of the european union's external action service say unequivocally that we are in favour of the application of fundamental freedoms and human rights and that as the european union we have to make the greatest possible contribution to the application of these principles and freedoms which are common to the whole world, so that we can play this positive role. you know our position, that we want to see a special section on human freedoms, and more particularly that there should be a monitoring and delegation of this. but i would say, mrs ashton, that we must look beyond the outside to the inside. i am coming from cyprus and i would like to point out that we have two hundred thousand greek cypriot refugees who are deprived of their basic human rights (access to their homes), and we also have a turkish cypriot community which is oppressed by the turkish occupation. organize your department! a word of advice and a request: send your first envoy to the territory of the republic of cyprus!
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, our key position in this report is the counter-insurgency strategy in the eu action plan, and i thank mr arlacchi for understanding this. this strategy must be given time to work according to the timetable set by president obama, with 2014 as the deadline for the complete afghanisation of military and police operations. the final stage will certainly be political, with an agreement reached through negotiation by all afghani parties to the conflict. contact with the taliban is an afghani affair, but this should begin when the insurgents cease to feel in a position of strength. aid distribution and the use of private contractors need to be rethought so that they benefit the local population – and certainly without paying protection money to local insurgents for the supply routes. equal importance should be accorded to narcotics – alongside security – for the sake of the lives of european young people. we are strongly against paragraph 71, which condemns the use of drones – an integral part of the counter-insurgency strategy. what are the european soldiers in the field going to think if the european parliament condemns such an effective weapon in their fight against insurgency? i urge colleagues to vote against the third part of paragraph 71.
madam president, mrs ashton, i think we live in a paranoid world and you are called upon to play a role in it, to mitigate, i mean, that paranoia. as everyone knows, the cost of the war in afghanistan has exceeded three hundred billion dollars. the cost of ending poverty in this country is equivalent to the cost of a five-day war. the cost of operating just one week is enough to run six thousand schools. with three hundred billion dollars, two hundred thousand schools could be built. with the same money, 30,000 hospitals could be built. do the math and you'll see! i'm talking about ten million dollar hospitals each. do we need any more evidence to understand that we live in a paranoid world? if we were to distribute this money to all the families in europe living below the poverty line, we would give every family. does anyone believe that? in twenty-seven million families, twenty thousand three hundred and fifty-five euros each. who's driving this insane race? it's run by nato. i therefore call on mrs ashton to play a catalytic role by being a leader in the european union, to bring down this organisation from within!
madam president, the european union is a unique and essential partner for nato. as a document of the new strategy concept puts it, nato and the european union can and should play complementary and mutually reinforcing roles in supporting international peace and security. an active and effective european union contributes to the overall security of the euro-atlantic area. therefore, more favourable circumstances should be developed by strengthening the strategic partnership in the spirit of full mutual openness, transparency, complementarity and respect for the autonomy and institutional integrity of both organisations. we should also point out that close cooperation between the eu and nato is of vital importance, and this should be developed without prejudice to the principle of decision-making autonomy and with due respect for the nuclear status of some eu member states.
in writing. the european union must make its greatest contribution to the implementation of the principles and freedoms governing human rights so that it can play a leading role in this field. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must monitor and closely monitor human rights violations within its member states as well.
