i think we can all agree that this is the greatest tragedy in the last 200 years in this region. and i would like to express my sympathy and condolences on behalf of my colleagues in the european conservatives and my fellow citizens in the czech republic to all the victims and those affected. however, despite this tragedy, it is clear that the european union is still uncoordinated and inaccessible after the adoption of the lisbon treaty. it reminds me a little bit of a four-headed dragon. we have the president, the prime minister, the president of the commission, and the commissioner-designate. ladies and gentlemen, i personally think that in this case i must say that the european union has fallen asleep. the citizens of the individual member states are not asleep, and they are providing both material and financial aid today and every day.
in writing. i know of few countries relatively close to europe that have succeeded in pushing their development back by a few decades through 'democratization'. iraq, where unfortunately the eu troops have also been very negative, is definitely one of them. now, one of the most secular states in the islamic world has been turned into a rubble, where three communities are constantly bickering and fighting. what survives of the past are the memories of a relatively good education and health system and a relatively developed infrastructure in the country. as the only country in the region, autonomy was guaranteed to the kurdish minority, while no ideal democratic conditions prevailed in the state. after all, in which country in the region can we call a regime truly democratic? the fact that the us military has succeeded in completely subverting the iraqi state after the invasion, together with the partial destruction of the social, health and educational infrastructure, is a huge step backwards. the cover of the so-called democratic elections can't cover it. attempting to distract attention from the problems of the present by staged trials of prominent figures in the regime of saddam hussein is naive. only a person who is completely ignorant of the matter would think that this way the situation could be improved. the only positive thing about the last period is that both the us administration and the iraqi government have understood that without good relations with iran, it will not work.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have repeatedly criticised the fact that national parliaments and ngos from developing countries are not involved in development aid decisions and that they do not have access to strategic documents. this must be corrected in the new revision of the cotonou agreement. the new agreement must also include commitments by governments and parliaments to build functioning tax systems in their countries. it's important to both parties. the acp countries finally need standard fiscal management, i.e. planned tax revenues for their development objectives. this in turn will help the union in the fight against tax havens, tax evasion and illicit capital flight. as vice-president for human rights, i call for international agreements to include human rights clauses, not just for african, caribbean and pacific countries. i regret that mrs jola's report, which is good news, does not contain such a request. i ask the commission and the spanish presidency to correct this.
colleagues, more than one million people are exploited for slave labor every year, 90% of them for sexual services. only 3,000 victims received assistance and only 1,500 acts were brought to justice, despite the fact that it is a criminal offence in the eu. studies show that the profits from human trafficking exceed the profits from drug smuggling and distribution. with the enlargement of the union to the east, this organised crime is increasing. however, there is still no common strategy, no coordination of the actions of the different institutions and member states, which should not prevent the harmonisation of legislation, even if it is not enshrined in the treaties. i therefore ask the spanish presidency to conclude negotiations with the member states on common definitions of penalties and sanctions. i would like to stress that the new directive we are awaiting should also tackle more effectively the demand for illegal sexual services, as it is alarming that the abuse of children in particular is on the rise. in children, it's closer to 20%. what is also missing is effective prevention and education targeted at children and parents. did you know that only 4% of parents of abused children admitted that their children were lured into an online date? in 2008, 1,500 child sexual abuse websites were discovered. what we owe to the citizens of the european union is undoubtedly a new, coordinated approach and harmonisation of legislation to combat demand and, of course, human trafficking itself. i therefore ask the commission to submit to the european parliament a comprehensive legislative proposal to combat trafficking in human beings more effectively, and to do so as soon as possible.
mr prime minister, in the transport chapter of your presidency's agenda you also mentioned the galileo project. the galileo project is one of the largest and most complex projects of the european union. during the spanish presidency, this project should already be in the implementation phase. i would like to ask you to pay close attention to this project, which is complicated not only technically but also economically, because the financing is not completely clear. i hope that, thanks to the spanish presidency, we will be able to complete this programme and launch the whole project. this is a major challenge for the spanish presidency, as it will be followed by other very important projects in the fields of innovation, telecommunications and other related matters.
the assessment of the copenhagen summit and its outcome must be viewed both through the eyes of common sense and through the abundance of available environmental and economic data, which confirm that there is no global warming, and that if there is, it is entirely beyond the control of man and is caused by purely natural forces. by the way, we learned last week that a significant portion of the environmental data that the intergovernmental panel on climate change has been working with has either been deliberately falsified or misinterpreted. that's why it's good that the copenhagen summit failed. i hope that this collapse will first bring about a shift away from aggressive, so-called green policies. second, politics will return to the real issues that are really bothering citizens in this time of economic recession. third, it will prevent taxpayers' money from being wasted on controversial green projects. fourthly, there will be room for practical debate on rational, efficient and cheaper energy sources, and nuclear energy will be given a renaissance. ladies and gentlemen, when i meet with my constituents, they shake their heads in disbelief over the issues that we can discuss here without addressing their real problems.
i will speak as someone who supports turkey's membership of the european union as a full member, not as a substitute or some privileged partner, and allow me to say a few critical words in my own ranks. we are looking at turkey from the perspective of an organisation which has promised turkey full membership of the european union but which is not able to guarantee that if it fulfils all the conditions we ask it to do so, it will actually get full membership. the position of the european parliament on this matter is clear, it has clearly spoken in favour, the position of the european commission is also clear, and here i can only join in praising commissioner rehn for the objectivity and the great work he has done on this matter over the last five years. the european council's position is not so clear because we still have some governments of some member states that simply refuse to make it clear that if turkey meets all the conditions that we demand of it, it can become a full member of the european union. in that case, we're playing a double game here, we're becoming untrustworthy, and we can hardly ask for anything from someone we're not able to guarantee that we'll deliver on our promises. secondly, turkish democracy is just a specific thing in its own way. if we are right to call for it to be brought closer to european standards, if we are right to call for the role of the army to be reduced, for example, then we also need to know what this will mean and what impact it will have on the structure of turkish society and on the whole character of turkish democracy. i am concerned that by mechanically assessing the criteria for democratization we may sometimes cause more harm than good, and i would advocate for more sensitivity, more sensitivity, more empathy towards turkey in this matter.
in the form of letters. accession negotiations with a candidate country should aim at its accession to the eu. in the case of turkey, however, the situation is much more complicated. accession negotiations are open from 3 october 2005. in addition to accession, they are to contribute to the promotion of democracy, freedom and respect for civil and human rights in turkey. this objective must be achieved not so much by political declarations as by legislative adjustments in the context of harmonisation with the legal order of the european union, but above all by political and social practice based on the example of the member states. the arguments against entry on the subject of 'european countries' and 'islamic countries' are incorrect and incorrect. turkey's historical belonging to europe is unquestionable. today, turkey is a member of the council of europe and the organization for security and cooperation in europe. there is no religious criterion for assessing a candidate country, and freedom of religion is one of the core european values. therefore, the only and decisive positions for turkey's accession to the eu must be respect for the rule of law, legislative affirmation of civil and minority rights and respect for all eu member states.
the danube region is a very specific and undeniably vast territory. as we all know, the danube is the second longest river in europe after the volga, and it flows through or forms the borders of ten countries and its watershed extends into nineteen european countries. it is therefore certainly good that this area is receiving specific attention. but i do not think that we should try to influence directly the specific form of the danube strategy here on the floor of the european parliament. a good macro-regional strategy has to be defined from the bottom up, the european institutions should only provide the framework, facilitate intergovernmental communication and support the actors methodologically, data reviews etc. in my view, the commission should not write a macro-regional strategy, but moderate its development, as the content must be defined at the level of the member states, the regions and the individual cities and municipalities. i am also convinced that, however forward-looking the danube strategy should be, we cannot avoid the legacy of the past in its implementation. it should be remembered that during the cold war, for example in what was then czechoslovakia, the danube formed a separate border between east and west. the element of a divided europe in the danube basin persists and in fact limits european integration trends. therefore, the strategy should address this problem. the development potential of the danube cannot be fully exploited if there are disconnected international, interregional and local transport networks, if there is a lack of deeper cooperation in spatial planning and strategic planning for development, if there are mental barriers. the past must be dealt with if we are to move forward more effectively. it is good that in the context of macro-regional strategies we are not talking about administrative units, individual states or nuts and regions, but about the territory within europe. this approach requires not only a change in technology or in the method of implementing cohesion policy, but much more a change in philosophy. indeed, there is a need to promote multi-level governance to solve territorial problems, regardless of administrative barriers. macro-regional strategies are the way forward, a largely unique project, which has never been seen before in the european union. they aim to ensure that member states, regional and local authorities and other relevant actors work together in partnership to address their problems.
for the group gue/ngl ladies and gentlemen, five years ago, in a debate in the committee on transport and tourism, one of the new members of the european parliament, myself, announced a great secret to the others: the longest river in the european union is the danube. since then, my colleagues have not been surprised by this statement and i am very pleased to be able to support the launch of the danube basin development strategy as one of the initiators. of course, this strategy must cover a number of aspects, and it is precisely the aspects of environmental protection, sustainable economic development and the development of transport infrastructure that logically require the involvement of all the countries that use water resources in this territory. it doesn't matter if they're european union countries or our neighbors. the transport potential, which has so far been underutilized, and other development opportunities require the accelerated start-up of the whole project. i therefore fully support the relatively short deadline set by the european commission resolution and look forward to the danube basin development strategy being one of the major development plans of the european union as from next year. the gue/ngl group fully supports the intentions indicated in the resolution and will of course support them in the vote.
the european strategy for the danube region is important for the development of the entire danube basin. there are many common themes. i would like to highlight just a few of them, which are also relevant for countries in the wider danube region, such as the czech republic. one of them is the field of water management, including flood protection. destructive floods are a recurrent feature of the area, and an integrated approach is therefore essential in the area. another topic is the large-scale investment activities that should ensure better transport connections in the territory and its connections with neighbouring regions. it would be appropriate to take this macro-regional aspect into account in the forthcoming revision of the ten-t network. individual projects should not compete with each other. priorities must be clearly defined, projects must be environmentally sustainable and have clear support from local and regional authorities and the public. not isolated actions, but cooperation in the territory with a supra-regional perspective can ensure the sustainable development of the danube region into the future. the european strategy for the danube region can be both a well-understood and stabilising development framework for both member states and countries outside the european union, but which are willing to cooperate, whether as candidate countries or on the basis of the neighbourhood policy.
the next item on the agenda is a joint debate on four reports on taxation. we have here: - report by mrs alvarez on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation (a7-0006/2010), - report by mr dumitru stolojan on mutual assistance for the recovery of claims arising from taxes, duties, fees and other measures (a7-0002/2010), - report by mr casa on the optional and temporary use of the reverse charge mechanism in relation to the supply of certain goods (a7-0008/2010), - report by mr domenica on the promotion of good governance in the field of taxation (a7-0007/2010). i'll give the floor to mrs. alvarez, the reporter, for four minutes.
thank you, commissioner kovács. as you mentioned, this is the last occasion you come to this house so let me also thank you for the excellent cooperation we have had with you during your tenure.
mr president, commissioner, we are discussing today a package of economically and politically controversial proposals to significantly improve administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. tax fraud is undoubtedly a major problem that limits public budget revenues. but what are the causes of tax evasion, and what are the motives of those who resort to tax fraud? first, the high tax rates. the higher the taxes, the more taxpayers seek ways to evade their tax obligations. this well-known economic truth should be borne in mind, especially today, when most politicians believe that public deficits can be solved by raising taxes, i.e. on the revenue side of the budget, rather than by making major cuts on the expenditure side. let me make one more remark. that's why they're tax havens. because the owners are moving their capital to places with lower taxes. if you want to destroy or limit the existence of tax havens, then lower taxes. second, another important reason why tax evasion occurs is the lack of clarity and complexity of tax rules. the more exceptions, the more fraud. statistical data and various studies confirm that the complexity of selecting, for example, vat is mainly due to unclear interpretation and thousands of different exceptions. unfortunately, neither the european commission nor the members of the european parliament propose to the member states tax cuts or major adjustments that can lead to transparency of tax jurisdictions. the proposals at issue are as follows: first, the principle of the obligation to exchange information on taxpayers is introduced; second, the information on taxpayers is precisely specified and is clearly very sensitive; third, for the first time the obligation to exchange information covers all types of tax; and fourth, there is a legislative innovation and a breach of banking secrecy.
madam president, commissioner, the opel case shows us how highly controversial - and our debate clearly shows this - and difficult it is to intervene by political decisions in the solution of the economic problems of business companies. a few months ago, we were discussing here the possibility of financial support for opel by the german government. we all understand very well the important position of the company and the impact of any problems on the company, especially on the thousands of employees, and the consequent impact on the supply companies and of course on the increase in the costs of the state social systems in the event of a catastrophic event. yet we have warned many against political decisions about large subsidies from public finances. as it turns out, neither the so-called scrapbook nor the large proposed financial subsidies have solved the problems. on the contrary, it turns out that there's just been a time shift and a complication of the economic problems of society, and we're not even entirely sure if these are real problems or tactics of society. the crisis situation today affects a certain part, the antwerp company is getting into a very difficult situation. we can only speculate why it is that part of society outside the mother country that is hit by this problem. the opel case takes on another dimension. we are now entering the so-called unpleasant solution of a multinational company, where the question of the territorial ownership of a certain part of the company is being discussed. the problem of the firm thus becomes a problem of the countries concerned, and the solution at the level of the european union is very complex. in this situation, the european parliament should remain in a position of authority requiring compliance with the rules adopted by the member states of the european union, in such a way that the acceptance of the principle of subsidiarity does not distort the competitive environment. it is also very dangerous that such complicated economic problems of large companies do not become a competition between the member states of the european union with the features of protectionism in a particular industry.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when the struggle for women's suffrage was taking place about a hundred years ago, women were not fighting for privilege but for the fair recognition of their basic civil rights. let's try to go that route today. i believe that the promotion of women in political life, especially at national level, will help to ensure a genuine free competition of candidates in the electoral process. under such conditions, women will no doubt survive. for example, in the last parliamentary elections in the czech republic, the total number of women mps elected from all parliamentary parties would have increased from just 15% to an acceptable 26% in a free contest of candidates. and similar results can be found in other types of elections. women don't have to be beggars. if they have a level playing field, they'll prevail. however, as long as electoral systems are competing with a select few candidates for the expected elective seats without any real possibility of other candidates being elected, there is no such thing as a level playing field. let us therefore strive for genuine equality of opportunity for all, including women. after that, the quotas won't be necessary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you once again that the outdated barcelona targets referred to in this report are contrary to the recommendations of the experts. they show that the youngest children, those under two years of age, should not be placed in collective institutions and that it is therefore impossible to impose such objectives on the member states. the 24-hour care of a mother or father is simply essential for the healthy mental development of infants and toddlers. moreover, this report interferes with the rights of member states to change their pro-family policies. our task is to seek effective european action to combat trafficking in human beings and violence against women and children. i think, or i want to point out, that this report does not respect the right to life of the unborn child. and i consider this report to be unbalanced. in conclusion, i would like to thank commissioner spidlov and wish him every success.
for the ecr group. ladies and gentlemen, mr barroso, my group, the ecr, has supported you along with the liberals and the people's party, otherwise you would not be sitting here. we supported you unlike others, and we supported you because you have a reputation as a reformer. we'd like you to really get the full measure of that reputation this election season. i remember that in 2005 you came up with an interesting idea to simplify european legislation, to make the now opaque dense community law transparent. please go back to that idea, because it was a good one. we are living in the era of the lisbon treaty, we are living in the era when it will be even easier to adopt new standards, and i therefore ask you not to allow the european economy to be suffocated by the shoots of unjustified and unjustified regulation, not to allow the triumph of fashionable, politically correct themes to become a pretext for further centralisation, further regulation, further bureaucratisation of the european union. if you go down this road, you can count on us. if you go down the path of reform, if you show yourself to be a true reformer, then you can count on our support, then you can count on our cooperation. but where you stick to the old ways, where you walk the beaten, trodden paths, we reserve the right to disagree with you, or even oppose you. and i hope that the first cases will be, mr president, far more numerous than the second ones and that we will be able to cooperate far more and stand on one side of the barricade than against each other. i wish you the best of luck in that.
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. this debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12:00. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr lambert van nistelrooij, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council (ec) no .../2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1080/2006 on the european regional development fund as regards the eligibility of housing interventions for the benefit of marginalised communities (com (2009) 382 - c7-0095/2009 - 2009/0105 (cod)) (a7-0048/2009)
for the ecr group. mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we know the ghettos and slums from our own experience. it's where the lowest-income people live, people who are often unemployed, dependent on welfare. people who don't pay their rent, their electricity, their water. garbage often washes up on the streets and in the yards of these localities. all the parts of the structure that are common or not common are shrinking. we know from our own experience that these are mostly marginalized communities. they may be read by just a few families or people living in a single large rented house, or they may occupy an entire city quarter with a population of a thousand. the site can be located in the centre of the town, but also on the periphery or even completely outside the town centre. it is therefore good that the proposed amendment extends the allocation of european funds to housing for marginalised groups and that it allows for investment not only in cities but also in the countryside, both in the form of repairs to existing housing stock and new housing construction. but i'm convinced that physical investment in infrastructure alone will not solve the ghetto problem. just because a garbage can is removed, a facade is repaired, the entrance is renovated, and the house is painted does not mean that in a few years the place will not look the same as it does today. because ghettos are not just about the environment, about the buildings, but also about the people who live there. we should therefore look for ways in the future to combine these investments with social work in the field, to link them with support for the employment of people living in the ghettos and to enable young people in particular to escape the trap of social poverty. only then will the ghettos and slums become real urban areas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the current economic crisis is having the most severe effects on the most vulnerable sections of the population. so i welcome the eu's efforts to find ways to help these people. while interventions from the european regional development fund for marginalised communities living in cities are already possible today, rural areas are still virtually excluded from this type of intervention and have to be content with payments from the weaker rural development fund. i believe that this financial imbalance needs to be changed. it is important that eligible expenditure is not limited to the replacement of existing housing with newly built houses but also includes the renovation of existing housing. this would considerably broaden the range of possible interventions and increase the effectiveness of the measures. in particular in the new member states, the housing situation of these communities is often critical and requires immediate and decisive action by public authorities. the european union's structural funds have a wide scope to effectively supplement national resources which are not sufficient on their own to bring about a substantial improvement. i strongly agree with the explicit reference to the roma population as the largest marginalised community, and at the same time i support the idea that other persons in a similar socioeconomic situation should not be excluded from interventions targeting roma.
this debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12:00. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
i would like to begin by thanking all my colleagues for the work they have done on this report. at the same time, i would like to welcome the new commissioner and wish him much success in his very interesting portfolio. i only have three comments because there's been a lot of talk in this whole discussion. i think it is also necessary to emphasize that enlargement itself must also be seen as one of the possible solutions to reviving the economic growth of the european union, we must not forget that. my second point is about the word complexity. i think we have to look at the balkans as a whole, that we cannot focus on just one particular country, whether it is croatia or macedonia, we should look at the issue of a comprehensive approach of countries like serbia. and with turkey, we need to say a clear yes or no, we cannot keep fooling turkey and promising that they might be accepted. you need to say a clear yes or no.
in writing. on the one hand, the way and extent to which turkey is democratizing and moving closer to the eu is crucial. on the other hand, the debate on turkey's future membership of the eu must not be left aside. each enlargement entailed budgetary considerations, whether the country's accession to the european union would bring more or whether negative financial losses would prevail. i am afraid that in the current crisis the common agricultural policy and, in turn, the european budget cannot afford to expand to a country where agriculture is the livelihood of 7 million people (in the eu 10.4 million). for comparison, under current conditions, expenditure for turkey would be around eur 10 billion by 2025, while for all 10 new eastern enlargement member states it would be up to eur 8 billion. direct payments to turkish farmers, rural development payments and market support payments would be a disaster for european agriculture and farmers under the current legislative arrangements. given the large size, population and economic situation of this candidate country, turkey's accession to the eu would impose a huge budgetary burden, with a 9% drop in gdp per capita. for these reasons, there is a need to discuss again and in greater depth the accession of turkey to the eu and the related reform of the common agricultural policy.
mr president, i wanted to speak on the domenica report and i wanted to say that it is worth noting that here in strasbourg we have given such strong support to measures to improve transparency and the exchange of information to enable more efficient tax administration in the member states. it's a pity that the economic crisis had to motivate her to take this step. the achilles heel is the tax havens in the various island countries, many of which are also supported by european union funds. and so it is up to us to confront this, and this with the weight of the whole european union. the attempts by individual member states to conclude bilateral agreements have produced no tangible results, as is shown by the fact that the eu-27 lost 2.5% of gdp in 2004.
it's late, but we passed a resolution on concrete measures to help haiti. what's important is that they're aimed at long-term recovery for a terribly impoverished island. as vice-president of the acp-eu assembly responsible for human rights, i consider it important that european aid is strongly oriented towards ensuring long-term health care and education for thousands of orphaned children in haiti. we also need to prevent the risk of trafficking in children. but what worries me is that today the media is reporting that haitians are protesting because despite all efforts they still don't have tents over their heads, enough food and water. i am also outraged that the high representative for foreign affairs, baroness ashton, did not sacrifice her weekend and arrive on time to the island. this is not a good start for a better european union foreign policy after the adoption of the lisbon treaty.
it is important that we have made clear in our vote today that we insist that iran's nuclear programme be brought under international control, even though the iranian parliament is blocking ratification of the nuclear non-proliferation protocol. the presidency of the council must ensure that this issue is included in the agenda of the next security council. i welcome the consensus that baroness ashton must be held accountable for the incident at the italian embassy, because it affects not only italy, but the entire european union. our statement today also demonstrates that the commission, the council and parliament speak with one voice. i'm pleased to say that we agree that a trade deal with iran will have to be conditional on security and human rights commitments.
i take this opportunity to commend the work of edith bauer and simon busuttil, who have worked hard to negotiate compromises, and for this reason i was able to raise my hand for the report, and i am glad that the socialists have also kept their word. the report now also addresses sensitive issues from the european people's party agenda, such as supporting those who provide assistance to people on the verge of being exploited for trafficking, and defining conditions for granting residence permits, access to the labour market and family reunification.
the draft resolution on the outcome of the copenhagen summit on climate change was the result of the careful work of our colleagues from several committees and follows a long-term strategy for a real green policy in line with the union's economic objectives in a globalised world. however, i must object to a number of irresponsible amendments from the socialist and green groups, in particular attempts to increase the agreed long-term targets of reducing emissions by up to 40%, or a nuclear ban or a transitional european tax on climate change. i also dislike the erc's downplaying of climate change and i was also outraged by the danish prime minister's absurd criticism instead of thanking him for the sacrifices he made to prepare for the copenhagen summit.
i also did not vote for mr tarabella's controversial and unbalanced report on equality between men and women, and i regret that 381 colleagues, apart from the epp members, were able to raise their hands in support of it. i don't think they read it. in many cases, it interferes with the exclusive competence of the member states, in particular with regard to their family policy and ethically sensitive issues. moreover, do they really also want to set up and fund some new institution to monitor violence against women in the union? does he not know that the union has the instruments, the authority and the legislation to monitor the respect of human rights, both for men and women? does she believe that we need a charter of women's rights alongside the already existing and binding charter of fundamental rights of all european citizens? in addition, the report refers to the so-called barcelona targets, although they are contrary to the recommendations of experts, because infants and toddlers at this age need round-the-clock family care, not cribs, as recommended by barcelona. nurseries are supposed to be a last resort. the report's recommendations are not binding, but human stupidity is contagious and therefore parliament should not support such things. it was only 75 votes short, and i appreciate the 253 people who raised their hands against it.
i was pleased to endorse today the report on croatia's key progress in preparing for accession to the union. czech citizens have long-standing relations with croats, tens of thousands of families visit the country every year and make friends there. and that is why this report is so great for us, because it proves that croatia will be able to be a member country in the next year. i believe that the ratification process of the accession treaty will not disrupt any of the intra-national politics within the 27 that accompanied the lisbon treaty, and i also believe that the parliaments of slovenia and croatia will find a good solution to their border disputes.
mr. chairman, i'll be brief as well. it is further good news for the balkans that macedonia is also successfully on track to meet the political criteria for the opening of accession negotiations and also for visa-free travel with the union. the recent elections contributed to this. they have made it clear that the citizens of this country wish to share international standards and peaceful coexistence. and i believe that democratic institutions will be able to strengthen negotiations with greece on an acceptable solution in the problem areas.
again, i'll be very brief. i mean, we have received a very frank report on how turkey is responsibly changing its legislation to the eu model, but also that the political criteria in the area of human rights, especially in relation to women and religious minorities, are still not being met, as well as the cyprus issue. yet, years ago, a majority of meps supported the opening of accession negotiations. i welcome turkey's move towards democracy and europe, but i would remind you again that a privileged partnership would have been a better solution for economic relations than the promise of accession for turkey, which has 70 million inhabitants. it would also be more honest, given that i fear that the accession treaty will not pass in the future in a referendum.
in writing. the marc tarabella report clearly highlights the main obstacles to equal opportunities for men and women. i know that some of my colleagues take the issue of inequality and the discrimination against women that goes with it lightly. but i am aware of the complexities! the global economic crisis has worsened the situation and it seems that women will be sacrificed by austerity fiscal policies, reductions in maternity, social services expenditure. given that women are traditionally more at risk of poverty and low income due to interruption or termination of professional careers for the purpose of starting a family, prioritizing the career of a husband or caring for children and the elderly, the rapporteur suggests adequate ways of improvement. mr tarabella rightly points out that the principle of 'equal pay for equal work' in the treaties, which has been in force since 1957, has not been respected and that women in some member states are still not paid the same as men for equal work. in addition, many eu policies are geared towards helping families with children, but mothers or fathers living alone with their children are often forgotten. the application for the legalisation of paid paternity leave at european level is also correct. dividing family and domestic responsibilities between men and women will help to resolve the situation. for the reasons set out above, i agree with the provisions of the 2009/2101 report and have therefore voted in favour of its adoption.
the agreement on the prevention of sharp injuries is the first ever agreement between the social partners in the sector. given that sharp-edge injuries in hospitals are estimated to reach more than 1 million cases a year in europe, we need not feel that this is a step in the right direction, as these injuries should be prevented if this agreement is properly adhered to. in practice, this will help to create a safe working environment and protect healthcare workers from blood-borne infections caused by sharp-edged injuries. although we may see some ambiguities in the translations or definitions, i believe that everything will be done to obtain as much information as possible from the social partners, to clarify all the provisions, so that the council can adopt the agreement as a whole. i would like to emphasise here that the employers' and workers' agreement is in its own way a unique european legal instrument, which has no equivalent at national level in most member states. this form of self-regulation, where those affected by a problem agree on a solution in the form of a legal rule, is in my view a prime example of european regulation. it is not like the regulation of co2 emissions, the harmonization of taxes or the standardization of public services, where companies and their employees have to do only what we and the member states have served them, with great pain and expense.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking both rapporteurs for the great amount of meritorious work they have done in preparing this document. i am pleased, as a doctor, that here on the floor of the european parliament we are aware of the urgency of the need to better protect healthcare workers from sharp injuries and that the content of the standard reflects this. i am very concerned, however, about the very slow pace of the commission's work. it is now five years since the european commission was first alerted to this serious issue and almost four years since the european parliament adopted a resolution calling for a legislative solution to the question of adequate protection of european union health workers against blood-borne diseases. as a member of the committee on employment and social affairs in the last parliament, i worked with my colleague stephen hughes and my colleague elizabeth lynn and others on this resolution and i regret that it has been so long delayed. i recommend that the measures proposed by the directive be adopted as soon as possible. i call for the greatest possible protection and prevention of health workers to be provided in the shortest possible time.
the development of online gambling allows for the almost uncontrollable circumvention of the laws of the member states and money laundering. for the internal market, the question of the monopoly status of betting shops and the other questions of the opaque financing of professional sports arise precisely because of their link to gambling. it increases the risk of addiction, especially in adolescents. the european court of justice has recognized the right of governments to ban or restrict online gambling in the public interest. although online gambling knows no borders, its regulation varies in each member state in terms of taxation, accessibility, controls and the extent of legal liability of operators. and it's not just the quality of the official betting and lottery companies that needs to be monitored, but the movement of money. effective control is no longer possible today without agreement on common rules for the whole of the eu-27. that is why we asked the commission last year to propose a european regulatory framework for online gambling. i am convinced that the ban on advertising online gambling to young people must also be included. exposing children to the influence of advertising on online gambling is like exposing them to an unlimited supply of alcohol, cigarettes, drugs, and other addictive substances. unfortunately, the czech republic is the most regulated country in the union. not only does it not restrict such advertising, but a combination of gambling and pawn shops near schools is not out of the question either. i expect this report to give the commission a new impetus to negotiate the necessary standards for the harmonisation of the regulation of online gambling in the public interest of the european union countries.
ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, gambling is traditionally highly regulated in most european union countries. but the situation has changed since the internet became the world's largest gaming platform. it is a fact that the technical development associated with the operation of games in the world is progressing very rapidly and the relevant legislation is not yet able to respond adequately. the increasing number of questions addressed to the european court of justice in cases concerning online gambling thus clearly indicates that the interpretation and application of community legislation on gambling is unclear. in addition, online gambling is regarded as a grey area of the law. i think we have to respect that each state has the allocation of gambling licenses within its own jurisdiction. at the same time, we can probably agree on a general level that domestic legislation cannot go beyond the union's principles on business and the provision of services within the european union. however, this paradoxically means that, for example, czech law may not allow czech companies to obtain a licence to operate online betting games, but the czech republic cannot prevent foreign betting offices from doing business on its territory. we can't just sit back and let this happen. and that's not to mention the social, health, and safety risks associated with online gaming, and the tax implications.
dear colleagues, today marks the 20th anniversary of nelson mandela’s release from prison in south africa after serving 27 years of a life sentence imposed by the regime in 1984. (applause)as you perhaps know, mr mandela was the first winner of the sakharov prize when parliament instituted this prize in 1988. marking this 20th anniversary of the release of nelson mandela from prison, jerzy buzek, the president of the european parliament, said: ‘nelson mandela is an inspiration and remains in the hearts and minds of so many people throughout europe, africa and the entire world. nelson mandela’s name will forever be linked to the fight for freedom, justice and democracy. nelson mandela’s fortitude in demanding integrity in democratic life, human rights and reconciliation in relating to past adversaries has set the highest of standards for us to follow and aspire to. (applause)‘ nelson mandela’s continuing fight and charitable work to defeat hiv/aids means that he remains a ray of hope for millions of people around the world. ‘twenty years on, we uphold nelson mandela’s message that: “it’s in our hands”.’
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes.)
would you like to answer, very briefly? (the commissioner declined to do so.) (parliament rejected the request to refer back to committee the report)
i voted to postpone the vote on the treaty and also against the motion to reject its ratification. the fact that pride has triumphed over responsibility in this house is not a good sign, even though the council has communicated poorly with the european parliament. but the analysis of this data has made it possible to detect terrorist attacks targeting european citizens in good time. those who undermined the interim agreement with the idea that it would better protect the financial data of europeans probably didn't read this treaty because it gives a better framework than the practice under the old 2003 agreement, even though there is no known case of misuse of this data. but on the contrary, the interim agreement included new safeguards, such as the fact that only the us attorney general could request the data, as could europol, based on a clear justification of the investigation for which the data would be used. so i don't really understand what happened here. i consider this an unprecedented and proud position of the european parliament.
in writing. the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion by the european community of a convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of maintenance is primarily a measure for the protection of children throughout the eu and is intended to lay down the procedure for the enforcement of international claims and the rules for their recognition and enforcement in matters of maintenance obligations between member states and third countries. as the community has the power to propose conventions in this area with full effect for the member states, this procedure is swift and certainly more effective than if each member state had concluded similar conventions with third countries separately, i fully support the draft report with my vote.
in writing. the tftp (terrorist finance tracking program) is intended to be an effective aid in the fight against global terrorism and aims in particular to monitor its financing. the transfer of european citizens' data to the us is certainly controversial and contradictory. we're concerned about the potential for misuse of private data by organized crime. however, following the review by the european representatives, the transfer and storage of data should be adequately protected. given that the agreement is concluded on a provisional basis until 31 october 2010 and that further agreements may be withdrawn after any discrepancies have been identified, i have decided to support the draft eu-us agreement on the processing and transfer of financial transaction data from the eu to the us by voting in favour of it.
comparing numbers, which hide human destinies, is always tricky. operation cast lead has left more than a thousand gazans dead, compared to 13 israeli military casualties. do we need to know more to make a judgment on the culprit and victim in this war? i think it definitely is. for example, since 2006, thousands of rockets have been fired from the gaza strip at the civilian population of israeli cities, from densely populated areas, no doubt also from public buildings. let's keep asking. how is the state supposed to protect its citizens in this case? can the military fight terrorism using civilians as a shield? and if so, can civilian casualties be avoided? what has the international community done to prevent this form of terrorism? are there not different standards for the purpose of respecting human rights? the answer to these important questions is a difficult task for the eu's common foreign policy. it should aim to facilitate dialogue, confidence-building and the patient search for a sustainable peaceful solution in the context of the whole middle east. an impartial examination of all the circumstances that accompanied and preceded the conflict in gaza may be a step in the right direction.
it has been more than six months since an unprecedented event when canada renewed the visa requirement for one of the members of the european union, namely for citizens of the czech republic. canada justified its action by saying that overseas, czech citizens, especially roma, were seeking asylum in large numbers. i would like to point out in this context that in our country the same conditions apply to everyone, regardless of whether someone is of czech, slovak, vietnamese or ukrainian nationality or whether they are of czech, african-american or roma origin. the charter of fundamental rights and freedoms, which is part of our constitutional order, declares equal national and ethnic rights for all citizens. by making excuses for the roma, canada is discriminating against itself, because it admits that it is changing its visa requirements because of one ethnic group. instead of expensive, bureaucratic visas, canada should think about these conditions.
for the ecr group. the proposal for regular information on investment projects in the field of eu energy infrastructure is open to debate. in doing so, the eu institutions enter the field of competitive relations between mostly private companies. in my view, this proposal has two levels. one is the content of such mandatory information, in particular its scope and detail. the second level is the level of confidentiality and the resulting confidentiality obligations for the commission. i believe that the mandatory information should be more descriptive, giving a rough overview of the energy networks and their future development. this would give the commission a sufficient overview of the links between the countries and at the same time a sufficient overview of the existing networks, also with a view to the future. the question also arises of what the commission will do if it is convinced that an area is under- or over-scaled. if sufficiently general, the problem of unpleasant discussions about the secrecy of certain strategic plans of energy companies would also disappear.
i welcome the presentation of the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy. like the czech republic in the council of ministers, i support efforts to improve, simplify and make more effective the legislative framework governing this area. the commission's efforts to adopt a multiannual approach to the strategy for the conservation of fishery resources and to put more emphasis on finding the right balance between fisheries and the environment are particularly valuable. the green paper must be seen as a first step towards reform in this area. i would like to see an even stronger emphasis on aquaculture in future proposals. the revitalization of the area of not only marine but also freshwater aquaculture will help to promote the development of coastal and rural areas and will also bring benefits to consumers in the form of environmentally friendly food. i support all the amendments in this respect.
in writing. the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy aims to launch a public debate in the eu institutions and the member states. like the common agricultural policy, the fisheries policy is a strategic agenda with direct implications for all eu citizens, which must be tackled in accordance with three main aspects, namely the economic viability of fishing, the protection and conservation of fish stocks and the maintenance of an acceptable standard of living for fishermen. if all these aspects were not balanced in the legislation being prepared, there would be a risk of economic decline in coastal regions, the overfishing of certain fish species or the increase in illegal fishing beyond limits. given that 88% of the fish stocks are fished above the maximum sustainable yield and that up to 80% of the total catch is discarded, it is necessary to set limits to allow the fish stocks to recover and thus significantly increase catches in the future while maintaining sustainability. the rapporteur rightly points out that the imbalance between producers and buyers, due to the entry of the intermediate supply chains , leads to a fall in fish prices, which further threatens the situation in the fisheries sector. the report takes account of all three of the key aspects of fisheries mentioned above and proposes concrete solutions for their sustainability, so it is a good start for all of us to save fisheries.
in writing. i welcome the draft compromise resolution on ukraine, which not only addresses the democratic nature of the recent elections, but also offers solutions to the problems of oil and gas supply and transit, and encourages ukraine to accede to the energy community treaty and energy legislation in accordance with directive 2003/55/ec. i would stress that ukraine's active and positive approach to the eu is not the only evaluation aspect. ukraine must also have good relations with its neighbours, the eastern partnership countries and euronest as a priority. i support the proposals and the other provisions of this compromise resolution as a whole and will vote for its adoption.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last week, important czech media reported that the german traffic police had significantly tightened checks on czech drivers on the german side of the border. the checks are reported to be more frequent and substantially more thorough. to make matters worse, some are even forced to urinate during checks, in conditions that border on the insult of human dignity, according to witnesses. it is therefore not a routine roadside check linked to the checking of travel documents or documents relating to the technical condition of the vehicle or to the vehicle's origin. czech citizens travelling freely within the schengen area may not be considered second-class citizens. they are full, equal and sovereign citizens of a member state of the european union and must be treated as such. mr. chairman, i ask that you convey this information to the appropriate authorities so that they can properly investigate and negotiate a remedy.
we are sticking to the procedure, but you have to take into account that we have more than 60 requests and we have 30 minutes for this procedure. we gave the floor to about 35 of you. we shall write down your name, and i can promise you that next time you will be among the first, but that is the way we do it. i would like to give the floor to all of you but, unfortunately, we do not have the time.
mr tőkés, i personally gave you the floor on at least one occasion. i do not think that it is correct to say that you never had the floor. i would like to remind members to give their names well before we start, because we make a list. i can assure you that, next time, you will be among the first.
the next item is the report by mrs bairbre de brún, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 998/2003 on the animal health conditions governing non-commercial movements of pet animals (com ((2009) 0268 - c7-0035/2009 - 2009/0077 ((cod)) (a7-0082/2009).
in writing. the objective of regulation (ec) no 998/2003 on animal health conditions governing the non-commercial movement of pet animals, which entered into force on 3 july 2003, was to facilitate travel by keepers with their animals. this was done by introducing a passport to show that the animal had been vaccinated against rabies and by making it compulsory to mark the animals for clear identification. in addition to the technical clarification of the original regulation, the proposed amendment again extends the period during which travel with dogs and cats to finland, ireland, malta, sweden and the united kingdom is subject to more stringent requirements. the differences in the protection measures of the abovementioned member states, in particular the different deadlines for vaccination and serological examination and the different dates for antiparasitic treatment, unnecessarily complicate and increase the cost of travelling with pet animals within the eu. in practice, this means that a significant number of european union citizens will be unnecessarily discriminated against for another year and a half when exercising their right to free movement within the eu. repeated extensions of the deadline may mean that the commission set the deadline incorrectly in the original directive and without regard to the facts of the case, or that some member states were unable or unwilling to implement regulation 998/2003 in time. in any event, such exemptions do not indicate an equal approach by the commission to the implementation of the general schemes in the eu member states.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the package travel directive must respond to a number of new challenges in the tourism sector, particularly in connection with the development of new technologies, which have also affected the way in which services are communicated and sold. this is mainly the case for sales via the internet, which has, among other things, made possible the rapid growth of low-cost airlines. every challenge has its opportunities and threats. the opportunity is greater flexibility and accessibility of services to customers, while the potential threat is a lack of consumer protection. the committee on transport and tourism asked the commission a few months ago to respond to a series of low-cost airline failures. in this context, we have seen passengers left at airports without resources and finding it difficult to find alternative solutions for their return. this is just one example of the lack of consumer/passenger protection by airlines. the commission should find a solution that should respond effectively to this situation in the foreseeable future, in the interests of consumers and confidence in the sector. the holiday season is just a few months away, and we certainly don't want to experience the same problems as last year's skyeurope crash. however, the consultation of the commission on this directive has of course revealed other issues. their common denominator is the desirability of strengthening consumer protection, in particular by improving the information of clients on the actual conditions and price of services. finally, let me make a general comment on the public consultation of the european commission on various subjects. i think it is important that these public consultations are available in all the languages of the member states of the european union if we really want to know a wide range of views on a given subject. in this sense, eu citizens are the same clients with rights to information as those to whom the review of package travel services is intended.
for the ppe group. ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, the solvit online service is now in its eighth year of operation and has successfully resolved 83% of complaints from citizens and businesses about the incorrect application of european law in the member states within 10 days. in 2008, solvit avoided litigation and damages of eur 32 million through its informal solution. the problem that our three reports reveal has two dimensions: firstly, the fluidity with which many member states implement european law into national practice, and secondly, the lack of a hundred directives that do not have full effect on the internal market. i know it's a small percentage, but it's an important percentage. secondly, it is a very bad use of the practical solvit tool. for example, in the czech republic, it is well-managed, but only 7% of registered entrepreneurs know about the service. france is the worst of all. according to the statistics, solvit has only one intern in charge. i am pleased that our committee also supported my proposals as shadow rapporteur, such as measures to strengthen the expert administrative capacity of the solvit network in the member states. but above all, it is about promoting the network among entrepreneurs, expatriates, various associations, national parliaments and here. i would point out that solvit needs to be linked to the single points of contact and the advisory services operated by the commission and, of course, it is important that the commission ensures that all countries are informed in good time of the problems solved by the solvit networks. the commission should include these analyses in its annual reports, and this should of course improve the usability of solvit. i am pleased that our committee across the political spectrum has supported all three reports on such a broad scale, and i trust that the plenary will do the same. thank you to all the reporters for their hard work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would perhaps like to start by saying what has not been mentioned here in this chamber, namely that it is certainly worthwhile to thank commissioner kuneva. like all my colleagues, i am pleased to have both commissioners sitting here today, mr dalli and mr barnier, who sat with us on the committee before his appointment. i personally met with the colleagues who are responsible for solvit in the czech republic. it is certainly a very good thing for the internal market, but it is worth mentioning that the approach differs from country to country. the crossborder element is certainly important and i believe that both commissioners will contribute to the opening up of the crossborder consumer market and, in particular, to the removal of barriers in the form of various national exemptions and thus to the achievement of full harmonisation of the consumer market. i personally believe that opening up the crossborder market will bring more competition and ultimately serve as an effective tool in combating the economic crisis we are in today.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. the effective functioning of the internal market is a prerequisite for adequate safeguards of the contractual rights to the free movement of persons, services, goods and capital within the community. in times of crisis, it can help to re-establish a stable and prosperous economic environment. however, the internal market cannot fulfil its function without the correct implementation, application and enforcement of the law. member states are obliged to implement legislation in a timely manner, provided that they have contractually undertaken to do so. the 1% implementation gap may seem small, but when compared to the number of late or not yet implemented directives, it is significant for the proper functioning of the internal market. the errors are repeated in some member states. i support the provision of more detailed information on the commission's website on directives which have not yet been implemented. this information could contribute to raising awareness among the general public and constitutional authorities in the member states. i welcome the call to member states to take the necessary measures, including the allocation of resources, to ensure the functioning of cross-border networks of electronic information systems for the early exchange of information, in particular for dangerous non-food products (rapex), food and feed (rasff) or consumer protection cooperation (cpc) networks. these systems are still not functioning properly and are not relied upon in all member states. attention should also be paid to the correct application of the directives. this can be achieved through effective cooperation between national, regional and local authorities.
the next item is the report by carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the convention implementing the schengen agreement and regulation (ec) no 562/2006 as regards movement of persons with a long-stay visa (com(2009)0091 – c6-0076/2009 – 2009/0028(cod)) (a7-0015/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
as shadow rapporteur, i would like to thank all my colleagues for the fact that our report on the solvit network was adopted by parliament by such an absolute majority. this is a clear signal to the council and the commission to take our recommendations seriously, which should ensure better use of this useful tool for citizens and businesses. it just needs to be a tool that businesses and citizens really know about. i would like to believe that next year the commission will present to parliament a full annual report, where the public will be informed of complaints about the denial of rights that european legislation is supposed to guarantee.
i voted in favour of extending the transitional period during which certain member states may apply derogations, because those member states have undertaken not to ask for further extensions of derogations for veterinary conditions in the future. i understand the concerns of ireland, malta, sweden and the united kingdom, as they have higher documentation requirements for pets travelling with their owners to their countries. the main risks are rabies, echinococcosis and tick-borne diseases. it is necessary to say, however, that this disunity, which transitional periods for some countries have allowed, must be removed in the future and that it is absolutely necessary for us to act together and have harmonized legislation.
i supported the regulation to improve the movement of people with long-stay visas within the schengen area. it is logical that students, researchers and entrepreneurs from third countries should have the right to move throughout the union if they obtain a visa in any member state. but i would like to call again for the solidarity of the country with the czech republic, which is fighting in vain against the introduction of visa requirements by canada. this is an unprecedented inequality of citizens of the european union. canada is now considering introducing visas for other countries, like hungary, and we can't let that happen. they are too generous, and therefore too attractive for asylum seekers. they're literally provoking their own abuse. canada promised to change them, but they're not doing anything. i apologize for taking the opportunity to bring this up again.
parliament adopted all three reports on the functioning of the internal market as expected. but in the report by mrs von thun und hohenstein, the socialists and the greens took up arms against the proposal to carry out regular tests of the functioning of the internal market. they argue that it would break down agreed social and environmental standards. but we know that these standards cost us something, and we also know that they allow for a higher quality of life in the european union. in today's debate, the left did not explain why they are so afraid of the objectification of this value. i voted for everything.
in writing. the eu has concluded a set of agreements with individual member states and neighbouring third countries on the seas, which is made up of the helsinki convention, the bonn agreement, the barcelona convention and the so-called lisbon agreement. the aim of these agreements is to ensure individual and collective action in the event of a threat of or ongoing pollution of the sea or coast. although the lisbon treaty was signed in 1990, it never entered into force because of a territorial dispute between spain and morocco. the additional protocol settling the dispute was signed by all the contracting parties in 2008, so there should be no obstacle to the adoption of the lisbon agreement. in her report, the rapporteur highlighted two persistent and growing problems of marine and coastal pollution, namely the huge floating mass of plastic and rubber items in the pacific ocean, 34 times the size of the medium-sized member state of the netherlands. the second persistent problem that anna rosbach mentions and calls for a solution to is the number of old, discarded and lost fishing nets. this report is an example of constructive work to tackle the major problems of marine and coastal pollution and i will therefore support it with my vote.
in writing. the rapporteur takes a logical and pragmatic approach, based on the results of evaluation reports on consumer markets. both consumer satisfaction and consumer distress can be inferred from statistical reports focusing on content. further development of a reliable consumer database is essential for the identification of markets. however, data collection needs to be improved to take account of the differences between member states' systems, which are sometimes extreme due to diversity. i find the most problematic is the effective enforcement of legislation and contractual obligations. in particular, in the case of cross-border transactions, enforceability is usually zero. the establishment of consumer protection rules in the eu has no effect unless they are properly implemented in national law and applied and enforced at member state level. the rapporteur has addressed the issue of consumer protection in an acceptable manner on the basis of the evaluation reports. however, i would welcome more concrete proposals to improve the current situation. despite this reservation, the report is a contribution to consumer protection in the eu and i will vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. mr president, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on animal health conditions governing the non-commercial movement of pet animals, although i do not fully agree with the text of the proposal. i am particularly concerned that it provides for an extension of the transitional period during which imports of dogs and cats into ireland, malta, finland, sweden and the united kingdom are subject to stricter requirements. for example, malta, ireland and the united kingdom require that pet dogs and cats undergo additional tick treatment, which must also be confirmed in the animal's passport. this is the second consecutive extension of the transitional period, which i consider to be highly unusual in terms of eu legislative practice. the commission should assess as soon as possible the prospect of extending the general arrangements to member states currently subject to a transitional regime and, to that end, have a consultation opinion drawn up by the european food safety authority. i am convinced that repeatedly extending the transition period is not in the interest of european citizens. existing differences in the protection measures of the abovementioned member states, such as different deadlines for vaccination and serological examination or different dates for antiparasitic treatment, unnecessarily complicate, make more difficult and increase the cost of travelling with pet animals within the eu.
in writing. community rules governing the non-commercial movement of pet animals into and within the community provide for a so-called general regime under which pet dogs, cats and ferrets must be accompanied by a document for their identification and a statement of their compulsory vaccination against rabies or past diseases when moving between eu member states. regulation (ec) no 998/2003 also provides for a so-called transitional regime allowing member states to apply more stringent requirements for the entry into and movement of those animals on their territory. the united kingdom is the main beneficiary of this derogation. the commission proposes to extend the transitional arrangements until 31 december 2011 and the rapporteur, ms de brún, is advocating this procedure. given that a compromise was reached in the council and in the envi committee, including this report, i voted in favour of its adoption.
for the ecr group. mr. chairman, i promise you that after genetically modified organisms, i will bring a simpler subject. i think it is right that the european parliament is the forum for discussing the current economic situation, and i am sure that the citizens of the european union and the member states are certainly much more interested in employment and work than in genetically modified potatoes. on the one hand, the speakers in this room are advocating the existence of a big, central, strong government, and on the other hand - and i'm speaking for the european conservatives - we believe that strong governments don't create jobs. jobs are created by companies. i want to ask you three specific questions: first, what degree of autonomy does the european commission give to individual nation states to deal with economic problems? second, can you promise a significant reduction in european legislation that is significantly slowing economic growth? and thirdly, do you agree with us that less regulation, less centralisation, less harmonisation is currently the best approach to tackle the economic problems of the european union?
ladies and gentlemen, according to a recent poll, 76% of czechs would not want roma as their neighbours. for more than 10 years, in my daily political practice as deputy mayor, i have been dealing with the problems of coexistence and neighbourly relations between roma and non-roma citizens of our city. i am therefore convinced that the money is not the solution, as the unconvincing overall results of the projects financed by european funds to date aimed at improving the socioeconomic situation of the roma show. the solution, in my view, can only be found in the cohesion of local communities in cities and towns, which must accept the roma as full citizens, for better or for worse. the same is true in reverse. roma must also feel a sense of belonging to their community and accept its rules and norms. the role of positive examples and role models is of utmost importance for relations with the majority society and for effective work within the roma community. however, a consistent and uncompromising fight against xenophobia and racism in society in general is essential. by all means, by concrete actions and attitudes, let us make it clear that they are completely unacceptable to us. this is where our common efforts should be heading in the future.
ladies and gentlemen, when the european regulatory framework for railways was adopted, we all hoped that there would be more transparency in the financing of this sector of the economy and that new opportunities for other actors would be created. the european railway sector seemed to be on the threshold of a new era. however, the libéralisation of the market that was touted did not actually take place. as we all know, the first railway package has not been properly implemented in 21 member states, including the czech republic, and issues relating in particular to the opening of railway markets to competition remain unresolved. the situation in the czech republic also shows that this is a real problem. although the state has already taken the first steps to allow other railway undertakings to enter the market, in reality there is no political will to allow real competition on the rails. this is also confirmed by the behaviour of the socialist regional leaders who, at the end of last year, signed a ten-year contract with the czech railways with an option for another five years to provide regional rail transport, without any selection procedure. the heitmans, who won a four-year term in the elections, effectively shut down the rail market for 15 years. the monopoly czech railways will now not force anything to improve its services, which will have fatal consequences for the railway. in this context, it is therefore questionable whether the current debate on the taxation of employee benefits, which has been sparked by trade unions in the czech republic, and the related threat of strikes, is in fact merely a distraction from real problems. the problems that cause rail transport to become increasingly marginalised in social and economic terms and, logically, the increasing popularity of the much-criticized road transport by the greens. i would therefore like to urge the european commission to be more active in promoting genuine liberalisation of the railway sector and to monitor closely whether the non-market behaviour of individual players is in line with european law.
for the group gue/ngl i'd like to start by saying that i strongly disagree with mr. vlasak, whose government has also been involved in what he himself criticizes. now, to the point. as the purpose of the railway package was to open up the rail transport market by separating infrastructure, passenger and freight transport, it is relatively easy to see whether member states have formally complied with the requirements of the directive after a transitional period of varying lengths. what is not so easy to see and what the directives did not address are the different safety regulations of the various countries, at least the elementary similarity of the working conditions of the crews of the trains and the workers who ensure the operation of the infrastructure, and a number of differences in the technical regulations. ertms is the spell that is supposed to unify the infrastructure and the kits technically. i therefore look forward to a clear answer as regards the compatibility of the european union rail network with the ertms standard. i didn't hear her. the question of how the opening of rail transport markets is currently being exploited by foreign and domestic operators in individual countries is perhaps also linked to this question. i am not, of course, referring to the related entities formally independent in the provision of regional transport, as in germany, but to the independent operators on the market. in conclusion, i would like to stress that neither the first nor subsequent railway packages address the social conditions of employees. this may be a major problem in the near future in the opening up of the railway market. the lowest possible standard cannot be accepted as a solution.
for the ecr group. mr president, i originally wanted to thank commissioner de gucht for breaking with the approach of his predecessor, who bypassed the european parliament as the only directly elected european institution and did not inform about the negotiation process of this agreement, but i am a little embarrassed because i have always been brought up to respect important personalities and therefore i was quite offended that mr de gucht ostentatiously cleaned his glasses when my colleague kamall was speaking here. anyway, let's get to the point. i personally welcome the fact that this agreement is being made, because intellectual property deserves more robust protection than it does at present. still, i'm sorry that the parties to the agreement are not russia and china, which are the main sources of copyright infringement. i also have concerns about the very effectiveness of this agreement. since the content of the agreement is still somewhat obscure, as many colleagues have said here, i would therefore like to take the liberty of appealing to the commission, as the representative of the member states negotiating the agreement, not to use the agreement as an export tool for the french digital guillotine to other countries and at the same time not to become an importer of software patents to the european union.
colleagues, commissioner, globalisation, and in particular china's entry into the wto, has created a huge problem, we know that. europe is awash with counterfeit goods, which are increasingly dangerous to human health and also represent a high economic cost for businesses. citizens and businesses are concerned that the controls available in the member states are not sufficient and are rightly calling for more effective action at european level, including strong penalties for counterfeiters. this agreement should fundamentally improve international cooperation in detecting counterfeits, but i don't think that cracking down on high school students who download games from the internet should be our goal. the content of the two-year-old agreement is secret, and so they're leaking information about controversial articles that could affect the rights of europeans today, their privacy and information. we did not give the commission a mandate to do that. i am therefore afraid that ratification of this much needed agreement may be rejected in the european parliament, as is the case with the swift agreement, unless the commission keeps parliament informed of the structure and limits of the negotiated agreement. i do not want to be faced with a finished product again, that is to say, approving or rejecting an act without being able to discuss the text in detail and dispel any concerns of our citizens. i also consider it a strategic mistake that china, the largest source of counterfeits, was not invited to negotiate this agreement. so i ask you, commissioner, can you tell us what the tactics are and whether you are negotiating with china to join the agreement at a later date? and you believe that?
madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to reiterate in my speech the need to build a partnership with russia. the european union and russia face many common challenges and threats. i will mention the fight against terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, regional conflicts in the middle east, afghanistan, climate change, energy security, including nuclear security, and so on. neither the european union nor russia can solve these problems on their own. cooperation is needed and this cooperation should be the basis for a new comprehensive agreement between the european union and russia. i would therefore urge the high representative to use her new powers to speed up the negotiations with russia. i would also like to invite you, madam baroness, to use your new powers to coordinate more effectively the positions of the member states and of the various actors in our common foreign and security policy, because only then will we be able to ensure a coherent approach and the promotion of values such as human rights, democracy, the rule of law, equality and balance in relations between us.
in writing. the report on the draft directive on the annual accounts of companies addresses the framework and scope of reporting obligations for micro-entities. the aim of the regulation is to reduce administrative burdens and thus help improve the competitiveness and economic growth of micro-entities. i welcome the rapporteur's proposal which gives member states a free choice and allows them to exempt micro-entities from the obligation to submit financial statements, i.e. to exclude them from the scope of this directive. in fact, in so far as they are limited to the regional and local market and do not have a cross-border activity, they should not be subject to additional obligations arising from european legislation applicable to the european market. i agree with the wording of the report for the reasons stated above.
in writing. i did not support the joint resolution of the socialists, liberals, left bloc and greens to implement the recommendations of the goldstone report on israel. the report was adopted by only five of the eu's 27 member states at the un general assembly last november. the reason is that the report was not responsibly analyzed at the human rights council level, and so the general assembly voted on an unbalanced report that portrays israel as a terrorist organization. i am one of the politicians who are pushing for an objective and uncompromising investigation of all alleged human rights violations in the gaza conflict. however, the credibility of the findings of the investigation is at stake. we cannot allow the politicization of an ongoing investigation that has not yet been completed. the aim should be to achieve a peaceful solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict and the future prosperity of two independent states, israel and palestine, and not to compete with europe and the us for influence in the region.
in writing. mr president, i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on transparency and the state of play of the acta negotiations, because i share the authors' doubts about the progress of the negotiations so far. this is done in a 'secret' mode, which means that only the european commission and eu member states have access to negotiating documents. the european parliament, whose approval of the agreement is a necessary condition for its entry into force, is completely ignored. i am of the opinion that digital content and its handling should not be included in the text of the agreement and, if included, the relevant provisions should not be binding. i insist that acta does not go beyond the existing intellectual property rights and that any penalties for copying digital content are left to the discretion of individual states. the protection of privacy and personal data must remain a pillar of european legislation, which will not be undermined by international agreements. i am in favour of an acta that will combat counterfeiting, which is a real danger to the economy and consumers and an undeniable infringement of intellectual property rights. on the other hand, copying should remain a matter of course if it is carried out for its own exclusive use. in my opinion, to punish him would be a violation of the right to privacy and the right to information. counterfeiting and copying are not the same thing.
in writing. i would like to thank the rapporteurs and all the colleagues who have done the honour of having the european parliament, by such a large majority, clearly express its uncompromising position on the non-transparent negotiations on this important international agreement. we expect it to open up a new international dimension to the fight against counterfeiting, but not to reduce the privacy rights of european citizens. i also see the problem in the fact that china is not invited to the talks. in yesterday's debate the commission replied that it too considered this a strategic error. that china, the world's largest source of counterfeits, would join the negotiated agreement later is unrealistic. i believe that our critical report today will cause the commission to reconsider its approach to parliament, which has been given the power of co-decision in new areas, including foreign policy, by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - i am pleased that the ep voted so unequivocally against the report on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. as a christian, i welcome the fact that more than 60 years after the end of the war, the leaders of western civilization have recognized the existence of nuclear weapons as a huge global risk and are working to reduce them. the real threat is that iran and the democratic people's republic of korea are not going to join the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. moreover, these countries do not comply with international obligations in the field of nuclear safety. iran's refusal to allow inspectors from the international atomic energy agency access to its nuclear facilities poses a current security threat not only to its immediate neighbours but also to the eu. in conclusion, i would like to thank my colleagues for their efforts to achieve the most balanced text possible.
it is high time to develop a coherent european and arctic policy that also resolves the long-standing disputes over new territories. the melting increases the extraction potential of new areas up to 200 m below the surface, millions of km2. but the dispute between russia, norway, the us and canada has also a geopolitical significance. the ice sheet is already half full. but the most important is the protection of water from pollution, and nuclear waste in the russian arctic is also key. madam high representative, i come from a country that seems to have nothing to do with the arctic, but i can assure you that many citizens in the czech republic are also interested in the position the union will take in terms of foreign policy, including its impact on the future of the arctic. it is about sustainable sourcing of raw materials, sustainable transport, conditions for scientific research, nature protection and, last but not least, the rights of indigenous peoples. i'm not a fan of the debate over new and historic states. i fear it may also be a new source of serious conflict. another is the dispute over the strategic northern link between asia and america. commissioner, you should make a commitment to bring it into international waters permanently, and also to make the arctic a permanent demilitarized zone. please take an active coordinating role in reaching an international agreement on all these matters that affect the arctic. the union should not stand by passively but act actively to prevent the escalation of conflicts and natural disasters.
i am personally very saddened by the news of the death of orlando zapata, and i would like to express my condolences to his family on behalf of the ecr group. i was born in 1971, at the height of what was called communist normalization in my country, one of the most dismal periods of communist terror my country has ever experienced. my country's experience with the criminal communist ideology therefore leads to a great solidarity of czech citizens with the cuban people, and we are therefore very sensitive to the sad news that has come from cuba in recent days. if the cuban totalitarian regime, 40 years after the cuban revolution, still uses the slogan 'socialismo o muerte', it does not deserve the slightest tolerance. i believe that orlando zapata's death was not in vain and will incite the cuban people to a more massive resistance against the communist regime. when pavel wonka died in my country in the communist prison as the last victim of communist terror, the regime had only one and a half years left to live. i hope orlando zapata is the cuban pavel wonka, the last victim of communist will. hopefully, cuba will soon break free from the grip of the revolutionary gerrymanders and become a true island of freedom. that's why i'm appealing to you. until there is substantial and irreversible progress in the release of political prisoners, progress towards the democratic functioning of cuban society and the holding of free elections, but also the launching of a process of structural reforms leading not only to an increase in the standard of living of all cuban citizens, there can be no prospect of opening a debate on the review of the common position of the european union.
i'm a doctor by training, and i know how hard it is to save a life. i sincerely regret every human life that was wasted, and i share your sorrow over the death of orlando zapata. i have carefully examined all the motions for resolutions tabled by the political groups. i am afraid i must repeat what i said recently when we discussed the reports on the human rights situation in the central asian republics. i said at the time that we make a mistake when we put ourselves in the position of mentors and we don't find any kind of good word and respect for the specific, historical and cultural traditions of the countries and the positive results that those countries have achieved. the same goes for cuba. i am deeply convinced that the only way to improve the situation in cuba is through a dialogue on equal terms, to which the cuban authorities are ready. in this way, we can also help improve socioeconomic rights in cuba. we must not forget that despite its difficult economic situation, cuba has always been at the forefront of countries that help others, for example in the disaster in haiti. it's true that those who judge quickly, judge happily. we should definitely not go down that road.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the commission statement on the situation in chile and the eu’s humanitarian aid strategy.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
it was an honour for me to support the resolution on prisoners of conscience in cuba today, not only as a member of parliament from a former totalitarian communist country, but also because of my personal encounters with dissidents in cuba some time ago, in particular dr darcy ferrer, who has been imprisoned with others since july last year. on my return i informed parliament of the sad state of health care and i want to stress again that people who are not members of the communist party and who do not have dollars do not have access to medicines. and the doctor, my colleague darcy ferrer, was a very important person in havana, helping the dissidents to get their medicine. he's in prison now. i am glad that we have adopted this resolution, which is a very strong resolution and clearly calls on the european institutions to continue their efforts to bring about democratic change in cuba.
i too voted in favour of the resolution on investment in the development of low-carbon technologies (the set plan) because i believe it is a key instrument for the union's transformation into an innovation economy capable of meeting ambitious targets. in this regard, i consider it necessary that the commission, in close cooperation with the european investment bank, submit a comprehensive proposal for an instrument for investments in renewable energy, energy efficiency projects and the development of smart grids by 2011 at the latest. this should go hand in hand with a strengthened role for the european investment bank in financing energy projects, especially those with a higher risk profile. i categorically reject the use of the low-carbon issue to make sub-belt ideological attacks on nuclear energy by colleagues on the left of the political spectrum. i insist that nuclear energy is among the clean energy contributing to sustainable development.
for the s&d group. the gilad shalit case has become one of the symbols of the endless despair and frustration in the middle east. and that's both the people who live here and the international community that's involved. gilad shalit is a hostage with a name, whose troubled fate we watch with concern and concern. the people of the middle east are the nameless hostages of this endless conflict. an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. or is there another hope for gilad and all the other sufferers? all the norms of international law cannot replace what we hear so desperately little about in this conflict - the call for humanity. try to abandon the geopolitical view of the world, where you play with human cards and destinies. to empathize with the families of the victims and all those innocently detained and suffering. what's to stop you from releasing gilad shalit and all the others whose guilt has not been established beyond a reasonable doubt? and encourage those who want to live in peace. the key to it is trust, compromise and the courage to defend it against all the unforgiving. please take the first step.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has been experiencing a crisis of confidence among its citizens in recent years. one of its manifestations is the very low voter turnout in the european parliament elections, which is the result of a widespread feeling that citizens cannot influence the course of events in the european union by voting. i therefore really welcome the possibility of a citizens' initiative that the treaty of lisbon opens up to eu citizens, and in this context also the public consultation with the commission and the publication of a green paper on how to put the citizens' initiative into practice. i agree with most of the proposals in the green paper. but if we extend a helping hand, we must not be afraid that eu citizens will accept it. therefore, as far as maximum dialogue with citizens is concerned, i consider some of the restrictive measures to be too strict. in particular, the minimum number of member states from which citizens of the signatory countries come and the definition of the so-called substantial number of countries. the proposed 1/3 of countries, i.e. currently 9, is in my view discouraging and practically unrealistic for any initiatives. i would consider reducing this figure to 20% to be a welcome step towards the european union's civil society, which will also perceive, for example, the increasing emphasis on the role of macro-regions in european policy-making. why not?
in writing. the quality policy for agricultural products is not a static policy separate from other policies linked to agriculture. on the contrary, it is intended to be part of the reform of the common agricultural policy as well as policies addressing adaptation to climate change, the conservation of biodiversity, the security of energy or water supplies, animal welfare or european fisheries. a product quality policy can help to increase the competitiveness of european farmers and to maintain economic profitability in rural areas in times of crisis by focusing on the quality of agricultural products and high quality food. it is essential that it remains unconditional that buying products from the eu means buying high quality products that are produced on the basis of the different regional traditions in europe, while respecting the highest production standards in food safety. i support the commission's proposal to introduce a european quality logo to be used on products that originate and are also processed exclusively in the eu. consumers confuse the indication of the place where the food has been processed with the origin of the agricultural product. it should be emphasised that it is the production cycle that can significantly affect the quality and characteristics of the product in a negative way. i also welcome the preservation of the registration systems for geographical indications and traditional specialities, as these indications are important for european agriculture not only from an economic point of view but also from an ecological and social point of view.
today's world tb day is an opportunity to remind that despite the progress made in the fight against the disease, tb remains a serious global problem. more than 2 billion people are infected with the tuberculosis bacillus, and one in ten of these people develop the active form of the disease. the prevalence of tuberculosis, but especially the different levels of treatment and control of the disease, is related to different socioeconomic conditions in different regions and also in different social groups. early diagnosis of tuberculosis, its consistent, fully controlled treatment, i.e. treatment that is continuous and of sufficient duration, is essential to reduce the risk of developing extensive drug resistance and multidrug-resistant tb, which is extremely expensive to treat and difficult to access in many countries. equally important is the adaptation of health systems and daily practice, including disease surveillance in at-risk groups, qualified medical staff and adequate instrumentation. who estimates call for $44.3 billion to be spent on tb at the national level over the next ten years, but barely half of the required funds will be available. the european union therefore has a task to join forces with the who and individual countries with their national health systems and to make the fight against tuberculosis a priority of development aid to third countries.
in writing. the european central bank has been the subject of constant criticism from the left not only across the eu since its inception. the primary cause of this legitimate criticism is the bank's objectives. if the main objective of this authority is to keep inflation below 2% and the budget deficits of the eu member states below 3% of gdp, then it seems that in times of growth everything is fine, unemployment is going down, banks are going liquid and it is possible to pressure the governments of the individual member states to reduce their debt. the moment the economic crisis hits, everything is different. the misstated objective of the cfi requires a fundamental departure from it. however, the report, which assesses the ecb's annual report and its performance in dealing with the financial crisis, stubbornly adheres to this misplaced headline target. the report also states that the policy of stimulus packages and the provision of liquidity to banks, which were the main, so-called unconventional, measures to overcome the crisis, should be abandoned. the report does not address the dire financial situation of at least five eu countries and its authors seem to be ignoring the skyrocketing unemployment rate. all of this only confirms the harmfulness of the current conception of the european central bank. therefore, the report must be rejected.
i appreciate that the report on the quality policy for agricultural products builds on the steps taken so far to strengthen the quality policy. in particular, i consider it useful to develop a system of geographical indications and designations of origin while maintaining the rigorousness of the criteria for obtaining protection. i agree with the retention of the traditional speciality guaranteed instrument, with the simplification of the rules for registration. since this is a lower standard of protection without the need to prove the specific geographical characteristics of the product, i see no reason why the processing of the application should take the same time as that for geographical indications and designations of origin. i see a weakness in current practice in the commission's ability to reject, on a discretionary basis, an application it considers incomplete. this is often done at random and arbitrarily, without knowledge of the specific characteristics of the product and geographical area. it is also necessary to create safeguards against the circumvention of time limits in the registration procedure by the commission coming up with more and more comments and supplementary questions.
while i fully support this proposal, because it significantly increases the transparency of fares and the charging of safety charges for all european consumers who use air transport, i am puzzled why there is not more harmonisation in this important area. i am concerned that, because of the dominant position of some airports, passengers are paying excessive charges without any direct impact on the level, speed or quality of security measures at check-in. the commission should be much more courageous in its evaluation report two years after the entry into force of this directive to propose a uniform and binding method for the calculation of security charges across the eu. i fully support the demand that more stringent measures, such as body scanners, be paid for by the state budget and not by passengers, especially as we have not yet concluded the debate on their necessity and health risks. finally, i am concerned about the interpretation of the provision on the payment of the costs of security measures carried out not by the airport but directly by the airline, which, on the contrary, can be charged to passengers and which, in my view, potentially risk being abused by over-estimation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in two weeks’ time, during the part-session in brussels. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the short presentation of the report by helga trüpel, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on europeana – the next steps (com(2009)0440 - 2009/2158(ini)) (a7-0028/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in two weeks’ time, at the next part-session in brussels. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by marit paulsen, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the evaluation and assessment of the animal welfare action plan 2006-2010 (a7-0053/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in two weeks’ time, during the part-session in brussels. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by stéphane le foll, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on eu agriculture and climate change (sec(2009)0417 - 2009/2157(ini)) (a7-0060/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in two weeks’ time, at the next part-session in brussels. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. agriculture is and will be directly affected by climate change because it is created by living organisms and its outcomes are primarily affected by the quality of soil, water and air resources. unfortunately, agriculture is also currently contributing (about 10%) to greenhouse gas emissions. nitrous oxide is released from nitrogen fertilisers and methane is produced during the digestion process of livestock. but it is agriculture that can help to combat global warming, in particular by introducing new methods of tillage to conserve soil and reduce and store co2, by promoting forestry and agroforestry and by promoting organic farming. i welcome and fully share the rapporteur's view that a genuine european forestry policy should be introduced, which would promote the management and further production of forests rather than using them primarily for economic activities, with the main objective of generating financial profits for semi-public or private operators. scientific evidence shows that this is the only sector capable of capturing carbon in a natural and non-polluting way. in addition, forests help to address land degradation and erosion, water scarcity, pollution, and to protect the biodiversity of plant and animal species. for all the reasons mentioned above, i fully support the adoption of the report.
the next item is the report by herbert dorfmann, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on agriculture in areas with natural handicaps: a special health check (com(2009)0161 – 2009/2156(ini)) (a7-0056/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in two weeks’ time, at the next part-session in brussels. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by richard ashworth, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on simplification of the cap (com(2009)0128 - 2009/2155(ini)) (a7-0051/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in two weeks’ time, at the next part-session in brussels. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the commission statement on coordination of humanitarian aid and reconstruction in haiti.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 13.10 and resumed at 15.05.) written statements (rule 149)
my colleague josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra mentioned at the beginning that europe shares very similar values with latin america. however, it has its own unique characteristics. we were here in march discussing the situation in cuba. when discussing the eu's strategy for relations with latin america, cuba cannot be overlooked as a major player in the region. the cuban stalinist regime, with its totalitarian practices, is seeking to damage eu relations with the region as a whole. this region doesn't deserve it. latin america is an important partner for the union, even without the cuban regime. the union's partner on the cuban side cannot be the current castro regime, but the movers for change and the democratic opposition. i have great respect for all opponents of the cuban communist dictatorship and i thank cardinal jaime ortega for the courageous words he spoke yesterday, i think, to the regime. i believe that democracy, respect for human rights and freedoms, freedom of expression, the rule of law, the rule of law and the rejection of any form of dictatorship or authoritarianism are not only the basis of a bi-regional strategic partnership, but its necessary condition.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the eu's common visa policy is now facing a major challenge in the form of a visa requirement for czech citizens in canada that has been in place for 10 months. moreover, by its unilateral action against the czech republic, canada has completely and unacceptably circumvented the eu institutions responsible for the common visa policy. the rights of the citizens of a member state and, with them, the prestige of the eu institutions that guarantee them, have thus been put at risk. the canadian government's unprecedented action against a member state of the union is putting the eu as a whole to the test of coherence. the citizens of the czech republic are counting on the european commission to take on the role of defender and representative of the member state and its legitimate interests with all its determination. the unique opportunity to do so will be at the upcoming eu-canada summit, where the issue of visas should be one of the talking points. it is high time to make a breakthrough in this long-drawn-out cause. i appreciated that the european commission adopted a report in october 2009 calling on canada to open a visa office in prague and to set a timetable for the abolition of the visa requirement. canada has met the first condition, the second one is still not met, and so the european commission and the council should not be satisfied with the current developments. the pressure on canada must not be alleviated, but rather increased. in this context, i call on the european commission to make clear its commitment to propose countermeasures in the form of a visa requirement for canadian officials and diplomats in the event of insufficient progress. i believe that the stampede must end. czech citizens do not expect eu institutions to make sweet promises and pitying cuddles, but to take concrete actions towards their goals. i believe the ball is now in the court of the european commission, and in particular of president barroso, who will be the prime negotiating partner of the canadian prime minister at the summit. unless we start acting confidently and forcefully towards the canadian government, any efforts we make will be ineffective and the result will be that the trust of czech citizens in the european institutions will suffer serious fractures. then we can tell them what we want about european solidarity.
madam high representative, may i point out that the successful ratification of the eu-canada treaty is an achilles' heel for the czech republic, romania and bulgaria, as it creates an inadmissible second-class citizenship in the union. not only another country in solidarity, but many members of parliament will have the full right to block ratification if canada does not do what it has promised, namely to tighten its benevolent asylum policy, which is supposed to be a condition for visa waiver. mrs ashton, can you tell me whether you have pointed out to canada that it is not tolerable for it to plan to tighten its generous and abusive asylum law until 2013, but that it must change it as soon as possible, also in view of the common values and good economic relations with the european union, the terms of which are to be included in the new economic treaty? madam vice president, do you consider it your priority to open the question of postponing the summit with canada, which will be held in two weeks, and to achieve visa-free travel before the signing of the treaty with canada? otherwise, are you aware of the potential failure to ratify such a significant treaty here in the european parliament, because we are not going to accept canada's approach to three members of the european union? ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of millions of citizens, i would like to thank you for your solidarity and appreciate that the motion for our joint resolution, which we will be voting on in brussels, contains a clear call for changes to the canadian asylum system and the swift abolition of the visa requirement for almost 50 million european citizens.
madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the forthcoming eu-canada summit, let me remind you of one of the fundamental principles on which the european union is founded. it's about the principle of solidarity. this value should be respected at all times, even when the problem is that of a single member state, if the european union is to be credible to its citizens. as mentioned above, in july 2009 canada introduced a visa requirement for citizens of the czech republic. at the request of the czech republic, the issue of the visa link with canada was included as a regular item in the february justice and home affairs council. solidarity with the czech republic was expressed by romania, bulgaria, hungary and slovakia, and clearly also by the spanish presidency. the commission has also voiced solidarity, but even after the expert groups' discussions, no concrete solution is in sight. time is running out and it is not working for the eu and its citizens. for eu citizens from the czech republic, waiting for the adoption of the new canadian asylum law as a condition for visa waiver with the nearest realistic date in 2013 is hardly acceptable. they therefore expect real help from the european union in this regard. if we often talk about the crisis of citizens' trust in the european institutions, let us also look for reasons in this approach, which unfortunately cannot yet be called too much solidarity.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a compromise proposal for a regulation, a proposal to simplify and speed up access to european funds. achieving this objective is certainly in our common interest and must be borne in mind in the debate on the future of cohesion policy after 2014. the proposed adaptations concern mainly large environmental and infrastructure projects, projects generating profit or promoting energy efficiency and renewable energy in the housing sector. the compromise proposal does not therefore contain any revolutionary changes to the architecture of the european funds. because radical change is not even possible today. we can only achieve a partial modernization of the existing system. the proposal is a compromise. i would like to say at this point that i support the declaration submitted by hungary on the use of financial engineering instruments under the cohesion fund for energy efficiency and renewable energy interventions. on the contrary, i am concerned about the retroactivity of the commitment measure, since it is not approved until 2010, whereas the funds were due to be reimbursed to the european union budget at the end of 2009. in this context, it is therefore essential to clarify all the technical aspects of this legislative arrangement. however, a compromise has been reached and the debate must therefore be closed. i consider it essential that the simplification of the european funds that we are approving here in strasbourg should be reflected in the reality of the member states. and in this context, we have a lot of work to do in our regions. i must commend the efforts of the current ministry of local development of the czech republic, which in the middle of this year approved legislative changes to draw individual funds from the structural funds and the cohesion fund. this administrative simplification is mainly in the areas of approval procedures, financial planning and management, including control activities and the handling of irregularities.
mr. chairman, one of the most effective tools in the fight against terrorism is to uncover the financial flows of terrorist networks. in february, the left rejected the interim agreement without proposing another appropriate framework for the security forces, complicating the work of the police and the judiciary. now we must join forces to accept a new, final treaty. i appreciate that the council and the commission are communicating openly today, and that is why i ask the commissioner whether it is necessary to transfer 90 million pieces of data per month, because i have doubts about that, and i also ask how our citizens will appeal to the us authorities if they suspect data misuse and who will control the data transferred to the us government. i think it should be an independent judicial body based on international treaties on mutual legal assistance, rather than europol, whose decisions cannot be reviewed and does not have the appropriate powers or we would have to amend its statute. the fight against terrorism is a priority, but neither can the charter of fundamental rights, which is supposed to guarantee the protection of personal data, be circumvented. i believe that the safest guarantee will be to open the way to judicial review in contentious cases.
ladies and gentlemen, as we commemorate the tenth anniversary of the major environmental disaster caused by the leakage of cyanide from a gold mine in romania into european rivers, we are putting to the vote a resolution calling for a ban on cyanide mining for gold throughout the union. this method is extremely dangerous not only in the event of accidents that threaten large areas, but also causes an already unbearable environmental burden in mining. a ton of rock contaminated with a highly toxic substance that is very difficult to break down in nature yields only a few grams of gold. this produces tons of toxic rock. moreover, the objections of most foreign mine owners against our activity are slight, because there is an alternative, safer, though slightly more expensive for them, method of extraction. i would like to ask you to support our joint resolution calling on the european commission to ban all cyanide-based technologies from 2012 onwards in the eu and also for the commission and the member states to not support cyanide-based mining projects both in the eu and in third countries. the ban is already in place in the czech republic, germany, hungary and other countries would not allow this type of extraction. i consider it essential to call for compulsory insurance for mining companies against damage incurred in the event of an accident, including the cost of restoring the area affected by the accident. in conclusion, i want to emphasize that the small profit from cheaper gold mining with cyanide cannot absolve us of our responsibility to a functioning ecosystem and to preserving it for future generations.
ladies and gentlemen, i have decided to speak on this subject because i have been following closely the developments surrounding the exploration and opening of the deposits of the mokrsko and the caspian mountains in the czech republic, where fine-grained gold was to be obtained by cyanisation. back then, in the mid-1990s, we were considering the environmental impact of the chemicals used, the fact that the process of cyanidation was processing huge amounts of ore, and the harmfulness of not only cyanide, but also the substances used for what is called decyanidation, which is chlorine and calcium oxide. another important factor is that the procedures used can mobilise harmful co-factors. of these elements, arsenic is particularly dangerous, as it is contained in arsenopyrite, a very common companion mineral. i myself am in many cases in favour of mining as a necessary prerequisite for any further development of technology, but in the case of the use of kyanization of gold ore deposits i have joined the opponents of this technology and i am glad that in the czech republic it was possible, by means of the amendment of the mining act of 2000, to achieve the exclusion of this technology from the permissible methods of gold processing. given the high risks associated with cyanizing, it would be good to exclude the use of this technology not only in the european union but also globally. the risks of cyanization are disproportionately high, especially in third world countries with lower levels of environmental protection. commissioner, are you sure that the new alternative technologies, the new separation methods and the separation flotation have been well considered?
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the may i part-session. i wish you a safe journey to your homes. let us hope that it will not be interrupted by a volcano or anything or anybody else! written statements (rule 149)
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting closed at 18.30)
in writing. the commission has put forward a proposal to amend the structural funds regulation in order to provide the member states hardest hit by the financial crisis with the economic stimulus they need. the change is to apply the so-called aid thresholds. the threshold should be eur 50 million instead of the current eur 25 million. large projects should also be protected against automatic decommitment of commitment appropriations. furthermore, certain states should be allowed to request 100% of the costs of labour market measures from the european social fund. if it were possible to open up funding without the need for participation, which i very much doubt, then the only correct and possible way is to compare the rules and regulations for everyone equally. it is absolutely unacceptable that some member states should describe themselves as 'more affected by the crisis' and for this reason exemptions from the rules should be adopted for them. if exceptions, then all similar! the eu is not a huge entity in the sense that we can extrapolate the different consequences of the financial crisis for the member states. economies are interconnected and the results of economic management interact. it is also wrong to punish those member states that seek to stimulate the economy themselves and do not wait for eu help by not allowing exemptions. even in times of crisis, let's fight for equal conditions for equal situations! the report takes this into account and i support its adoption.
in writing. europe has had and still has a strong will and a long tradition of animal welfare. good health and good quality livestock are also essential for public health. strict standards in relation to the rest of the world are part of the european farmers' brand, as is the quality of agricultural products. for these reasons, every effort should be made to establish a legal framework setting minimum standards applicable throughout the eu in all forms of livestock farming. only then will free and fair competition in the internal market be possible. it is necessary to require minimum standards also in a globalised market to avoid the possible relocation of european farmers' holdings to regions with lower standards outside the eu. i welcome the rapporteur's proposal that the higher production costs associated with stricter standards should be compensated for by support for future forms of the common agricultural policy. however, it should be noted that no further progress has been made in satellite monitoring of animal movements and it is also regrettable that some european farmers do not comply with the approved standards, especially in the pig production. it should be borne in mind that higher standards require higher financial expenditure and therefore honest and responsible farmers are disadvantaged by the behaviour of irresponsible ones in the market. for these reasons, it is necessary to provide for appropriate penalties in the event of infringements of community rules.
in writing. the report on support for disadvantaged rural regions aims to redefine the eu's disadvantaged areas and reform their financial and structural assistance. more than half of all agricultural land in the eu has been classified as less-favoured by member states so far, and it is therefore necessary to redefine the terms and conditions for such classification. support for rural development from the european agricultural fund allows member states to make payments for natural handicaps in mountain areas and payments in other less-favoured areas as part of environmental and landscape improvements. those payments are intended to contribute to the preservation of rural areas and the promotion of sustainable farming systems through the permanent use of agricultural land and should compensate for additional costs and income foregone. the review has shown that the designation of transitional disadvantaged areas by member states is based on a set of different criteria and these may lead to different treatment and different levels of payments between member states. i therefore welcome the rapporteur's proposal to leave room for member states to review the new criteria before opening payments. however, this should be set in time, as the entire reform process could be significantly delayed due to the negligence of one of the member states, which would not only negatively affect the payments from these funds, but also contribute to the ambiguous legal environment in the individual member states. i support the report as a whole.
the european union is the largest geopolitical entity in the world in terms of population. our success so far, which we must approach with great humility in the present crisis, lies in the ability of our economies to develop, above all, their capacity for innovation and export. this is particularly evident in the face of competition from the usa, japan, but also china, india and brazil. in this context, i consider it crucial to maintain the strategy's focus on growth and jobs. social issues and climate change in this respect must not distract from these main objectives. at the same time, we must recognise that a prerequisite for smart and sustainable growth in our member states, their regions and municipalities is adequate infrastructure, both in transport and in the environment. this is not sufficiently reflected in the europe 2020 strategy and there is a complete lack of the necessary focus on continuing and strengthening infrastructure investment, especially in those states and regions where infrastructure is underdeveloped.
i come from a member state where i lived until i was 28, 29 years old in a system that was based on central planning, where life was governed by five-year plans and each five-year plan was always replaced by a new plan because the old five-year plan was never met. so please forgive me for being perhaps sensitive or over-sensitive to the fact that we are planning what europe will look like in 2020, and yet in the light of this certainly interesting debate, we are not aware or less aware of what is happening today, not only in greece, but in the entire eurozone. i have been listening very closely to the debate in this chamber all afternoon, and i hear the calls for more europe, more centralisation, more centralised management. and i say to that at this moment, and in this debate, we need less centralization, we need more trust in the market, we need more markets and market mechanisms, because what's happening right now, not just in the european union, not just in the eurozone, but in the united states and other countries of this type, is a story of the incredible failure of all state intervention.
i have been working on the issues of regulation and bureaucracy for a long time in my country. most of you know me more or less from my bicycle ride from prague to the european parliament in strasbourg, which was 866 kilometers. but what most of you don't know is that i ride an electric bike in prague. i'm not an environmental extremist. i use it for practical reasons, because it pays off, it's faster in prague traffic, and i can ride it in a suit. i think that's the way we should approach the issue of standardizing electric vehicles. i have the honour of being the rapporteur for the internal market committee for the european parliament's report on standardisation and standardization. we're going to hold a hearing in june with commissioner tajani, and i'm glad he's taking it seriously. there's certainly more room for discussion. europe needs to be competitive and needs to innovate more than ever. standards are just one tool to help industry. i personally agree with industry representatives that the brussels regulations on the introduction of electric cars are murderous. the pressure for innovation must not be regulations, but demand. if they get a warrant, their vehicles will be prohibitively expensive and no one will buy them. by the way, the electric bike i ride is from china.
as many previous speakers have said, effective cancer prevention must include the full spectrum of measures from prevention, screening, early diagnosis, self-treatment and palliative care. but i would like to highlight one more very important aspect of this disease. it's the families of patients who are losing their fight against cancer. the family should be a place of comfort, support, and encouragement for those close to it. but in the face of a progressive disease, it is extremely difficult, and families must not be left alone in this lot. so when we talk about fighting cancer, we have to think about the conditions for a dignified death. these should take the form of both systematic assistance and counselling to families in difficult long-term home care and a system of available specialist facilities providing expert and, above all, humane care to patients in the terminal stage of this disease.
written declaration 0002/2010 on the european union's efforts to fight corruption, presented by monica luisa macovei, simon busuttil, luigi de magistris, ana gomes and bart staes, was signed by a majority of all members of parliament. the written declaration will be circulated to all the addressees in accordance with rule 123 of the rules of procedure and will be published, together with the names of the signatories, in the texts adopted at the meeting of 18 may 2010.
the next item is the vote. (for results and other voting details, see minutes)
we will now proceed to the explanation of vote.
mrs mcguinness, thank you, and many greetings to your visitors’ group.
for your information for next time, we have only one minute for the explanations of vote. i give the floor to our best speaker today, and that is mrs mcguinness!
ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to inform you that, in the context of the interparliamentary meetings, a delegation from the moroccan parliament, led by mr abd al-wahid radi, president of the chamber of representatives, and mr muhammad sheikh biadulla, president of the chamber of advisers, is currently on a working visit to the european parliament to hold the inaugural meeting of the eu-morocco joint parliamentary committee. i extend a very warm welcome to all members of this delegation. the first joint body of our assembly and one of the maghreb countries is co-chaired by mrs mubarak bouaida, chair of the committee on foreign affairs, national defence and islamic affairs of the house of representatives, and mr panzeri, member of the european parliament. the european parliament welcomes the excellent relations between the eu and morocco, as reflected in the adoption of the joint document granting morocco extended status. this new framework for dialogue will further strengthen relations with the european parliament's delegation for relations with the maghreb countries and will allow for deeper negotiations between the eu and morocco on issues of common interest. i hope and believe that the meeting held in the european parliament was fruitful and will make it possible to make an active contribution to the rapprochement between the two parliaments.
we're still three explanations of vote away.
the minutes of this part-session will be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next part-session. if there are no objections, the resolutions adopted at today's meeting will be forwarded immediately to the addressees and the bodies named in them.
i, too, would like to thank the reporter, astrid lulling, for her work. i also share the view - shared by other colleagues - that the directive cannot be limited to the agricultural sector alone in order to strengthen the protection of the maternity rights of self-employed women and to improve the situation of their spouses, but must of course also cover other areas, including the professions. not all assisting spouses have their own status, so their work is not recognised and they do not have independent social security. it is imperative that their professional status be recognised and their rights defined. i am pleased that the council has accepted parliament's view at first reading that maternity benefits should allow for at least three months' rest, which is the minimum necessary for the normal course of pregnancy and the physical recovery of the mother after normal delivery, even though at least two years of individual home care is optimal for the healthy development of the child. i regret that the council does not see the three months as the absolute minimum standard that the social systems of the member states should provide automatically, and that only further benefits could be voluntary.
in writing. the aim of the regulation on equal treatment for men and women in self-employment is to consolidate existing european legislation and replace several regulations dealing with this policy separately. the social conditions of self-employed persons and employed persons vary widely in the member states and social security is in some cases virtually non-existent in the event of long-term or permanent exclusion from the labour market. the nhs often doesn't pay for health insurance. they work when they're sick because it's more economical. women return to work after childbirth and do not take maternity leave. the spouses who work together are not covered by their own social security. osh are essential for a functioning economy and play an irreplaceable role in society. these citizens provide for themselves and their families financially, pay taxes to the state treasury, and pay social/health insurance. the state doesn't have to give them benefits to keep them safe. their role is indispensable, especially in regions where, for various reasons, there is a lack of jobs for the 'big' employers, and also in agriculture. it is therefore necessary to harmonise minimum standards to promote equal treatment of olaf in relation to staff and the equality of men and women in olaf. the aim should be to improve maternity protection, to provide leave for caring for family members and to recognise the contribution of the assisting spouse.
there is no doubt that increasing the energy efficiency of buildings also thanks to this directive makes considerable political sense. it is a cornerstone of the responsibility for sustainable living, but also of europe's political independence from third-country energy sources. i hope, together with you, that in ten years' time we will have really reduced emissions and at the same time we will have curbed a little bit the growing dependence on energy sources, particularly oil and gas from third countries. i very much welcome this directive, which will give a new impetus to innovation in the field of insulation, not only for new but also for old buildings. construction accounts for a full one-third of greenhouse gas emissions, so our task is, of course, to actively support the member states financially. i also welcome mr marinescu's proposal to set up a special fund. however, this fund should support not only the insulation of panel houses, but all buildings in the european union.
fair competition for european industry and trade, as well as the protection of european consumers, is essential in a globalised world without defining certain production standards and consumer product information. this regulation will undoubtedly bring further improvements to textile labelling, reducing the number of new fibres placed on the market by one year and abolishing consumer labels, better than the old directive. however, there are still some disagreements between parliament and the council, for example on the combination of fibre names with language-independent symbols, or the labelling of non-textile animal parts of textile products, or problematic allergy tests, which is a pity. however, i am glad that this contradiction is less concerned with the country of origin of the product and the conditions for its use. this is mandatory for textiles imported from third countries and now optional for textiles produced in the member states. it is the first vulture that has long been sought by both european producers and quality-conscious consumers. i believe that we will soon extend this principle to glass, porcelain and other commodities, and that we will do so before european products disappear from our market altogether under the pressure of competition from cheap, low-quality products. i want to oppose those who call it protectionism. information on where and under what conditions a substantial part of a product was produced is not a secret, but it is information that will improve consumer orientation in a globalised market. it will boost the promotion of the quality of european brands and rightly perhaps also make citizens proud of what europeans can still produce in spite of the competition of cheap labour. the main added value consumers expect is the hope that they will be able to avoid buying dangerous products, which despite improved controls are still very high. i welcome the commission's support and i am confident that a compromise will be found with the council.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday 18 may 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the short presentation of the report by heide rühle, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on new developments in public procurement [2009/2175 (ini)] -(a7-0151/2010).
i notice that several speakers would like to express their opinions. remember that you each have one minute.
i believe that this report on public procurement, adopted by an absolute majority in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, will be a good guide for the commission's work on the revision of the directive. our aim is to make public procurement much more accessible to smes, to make competitions less bureaucratic and at the same time more controllable. the largest volume of public procurement from union funds concerns construction, where corruption is often suspected, and not only. i regret that we will not be voting on my proposal in this report for the commission to set up a public portal where price differences between the winning contract and the actual cost of construction after completion could be traced. the portal should also monitor and thereby detect suspicious price differences, for example for the construction of one kilometre of motorway between member states. i am convinced that only when corruption is eradicated will the way open for smes to truly open public procurement.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday 18 may 2010).
the next item is the short presentation of the report by franziska keller, on behalf of the committee on development, on eu policy coherence for development and the ‘official development assistance plus’ concept [2009/2218(ini)] (a7-0140/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday 18 may 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the short presenation of the report by hella ranner, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on penalties for serious infringements against the social rules in road transport [2009/2154(ini)] (a7-0130/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday 18 may 2010). written statements (rule 149)
in writing. as regards the schengen information system, i would like to reiterate that the czech authorities, the local authorities and individual politicians, including members of the european parliament, are constantly faced with complaints from czech citizens who, when travelling to the federal republic of germany, are subjected to often unjustified and humiliating police checks and searches, both near the state border and in the wider german border area. this practice of the german police and customs authorities, carried out with great frequency and agility, has a significant negative impact not only on czech-german relations, but above all on the attitude of czech citizens towards european integration. after the accession of the czech republic to the schengen information system, czech citizens were declared free and unhindered movement within the territory of the eu, including the federal republic, as envisaged and guaranteed by the schengen system. i consider that the treatment of persons travelling from the czech republic by the german authorities is in the vast majority of cases unjustified and contrary to the declared freedom of movement of persons.
we have adopted a directive which will undoubtedly open up a new avenue for research into the energy efficiency of buildings and contribute to savings through insulation. but the problem is older buildings, not just the panel houses. yesterday, colleague marian-jean marinescu mentioned a special fund. the question is other resources in times of crisis. therefore, it is necessary to make better use of current resources 4% for the years 2010 to 2014.
i wanted to do a report on the refugee fund, so i volunteered. i'd like to say that the voting machine showed that i was late. but i want to say here that i support a shared responsibility for a more dignified environment for legal asylum seekers and that i was for it. and, of course, we need to do a better job of fighting illegal immigration. and now to the schengen point, if i may. today we voted on further steps to launch the second version of the schengen information system, which will strengthen security guarantees for all europeans living in a single area without borders. however, the idea of schengen and the european community is seriously undermined by the practice of the german and austrian police, whereby many czech citizens are forced to undergo unnecessary, detailed and degrading checks at internal borders. i drew the attention of the european commission to this problem in an interpellation two years ago, and the situation has not been satisfactorily resolved. this is a clear breach of the rules and restricts the free movement of czech citizens, including entrepreneurs and workers, which is one of the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
i'm pleased that the report of the committee on women's rights and gender equality has received such broad support in today's vote. i am aware that ensuring that women entrepreneurs enjoy comparable social conditions to those enjoyed by employed women is primarily the responsibility of the member states. however, this report gives clear guidelines that countries should follow. i don't think it's a breach of subsidiarity, but if anyone has doubts, they can initiate an inquiry. thanks to the lisbon treaty, national parliaments can do the same. i wonder if the critics will take advantage of that, or if they'll just talk into the void.
we voted in favour of a controversial proposal because our imco committee has extended and enriched it by introducing country of origin labelling in the european union. italian colleagues made further proposals at today's plenary session, including the extension of the regulation to footwear. i am very much in favour of this idea for a long time, but it must be prepared by the european commission. it is a question of finalising technical definitions which parliament cannot do well on its own. that is why i did not raise my hand in favour of this, but at the same time i ask the commission to get down to work and put forward a proposal.
unfortunately, public procurement is also one of the biggest examples of corruption. i was happy to support the report by mrs heide rühle calling for simplification of public procurement. but at the same time, i would point out that unless the european commission sets up a public portal with information on the circumstances of suspicious contracts from union funds, not much will change. competition will not be efficient, fair and accessible to smes. i'm talking about monitoring and analyzing, setting a benchmark price for, say, a mile of freeway, publishing the actual owners of the winning companies, including subsidiaries of holding companies, and also the names of repeat winners for the media and the public to check.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on the eu resettlement management and regulation programme prioritises the resettlement and adaptation of refugees to their new environment. humanitarian disasters or other unforeseen events can trigger a wave of refugees, which must be dealt with jointly within the eu. but i fundamentally reject asylum on the grounds of political asylum within the eu. i cannot imagine that in any of the eu member states it would be legally possible to persecute a citizen for political reasons. the participation of cities and municipalities in the resettlement scheme should in all circumstances be based on a voluntary basis, as should the participation of member states. in many countries, a higher proportion of foreigners in the local population is a tradition, but in many others it is something new. to prevent xenophobia and fear of foreigners in certain states or regions, their interest or disinterest in participating should be respected. furthermore, in order to ensure consistency and complementarity of the eu resettlement programme with other eu asylum policies, it would be appropriate to coordinate the proposed programme within the easo. despite these reservations, i support the report as a whole.
in writing. the draft report on the simplification of the common agricultural policy is one of the further steps towards simplifying and making the cap more effective. but much more needs to be done to strengthen the competitiveness of european agriculture, to preserve and create new jobs and to promote the natural development of rural areas. in this context, i would like to draw attention to the problem of direct payments in border regions, where unfair competition and discrimination based on the place of registration of agricultural operators occur. in regions of neighbouring member states with different levels of payments, economic calculation arising from the different levels of these payments by certain farmers is beginning to appear massively. a farmer receiving higher payments in his country of origin farms in the territory of another country (with lower direct payments) at lower production costs and disposals are reported on the opposite side of the border. this discriminates against and puts farmers in a country with lower direct payments at an economic disadvantage on the local market, and gives a farmer in a member state with higher direct payments an economic advantage on the market through eu policy. for these reasons, the following context for payments should be taken into account in the cap reform, i.e. the place of production equals the place for the calculation of direct payments. this rule will also help us to create a new, fair market in agriculture. i support the report.
for the ecr group. let me first express my surprise that a representative of my group was skipped in that opening round of appearances on behalf of the groups. it was obviously just a mistake. i would like to highlight the work of both rapporteurs in my speech, and i consider it very useful. if there is a subject which is truly european in the field of health and public health protection, it is certainly transplantation. this standard is a logical and very welcome step. i also very much appreciate that the rapporteurs have omitted the ethical dimension, which will of course remain the responsibility of the member states. as already mentioned, there are different approaches, for example, in my country there is the institute of presumed consent mentioned. some countries, on the other hand, require explicit consent. i regard it as a cornerstone that can enhance and extend the possibilities of the existing intertransplant, and if it has been said here that this is probably the first standard after the adoption of the treaty of lisbon that can be adopted at first reading, i am pleased. but i'm even more pleased that it's a subject that's truly european. and i really appreciate it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the visa waiver to the czech republic, which is a member state of the european union, and to extend it to the czech republic, which is a member state of the european union.
in writing. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, when a volcano erupted in iceland in the 18th century, the land was covered by a cloud of ash and for three years there was no crop in the fields of europe. there's no reports of any damage to air traffic. this year's much smaller eyjafjallajökull eruption has literally disrupted air travel in the european union. airline and airport damages, i.e. direct damages, have their continuation in the unmanaged care of stranded passengers in different corners of the world. passenger rights are obviously an interesting topic of academic discussion, but in this case, the interest of the responsible officials was at the bottom. we have no reports of any other means of transportation being used to return to their home countries. the chaotic reactions show a lack of coordination and embarrassment at the moment when they have to decide quickly to reopen the airspace. commissioner, will the commission speed up the work on the application of the partial results of the sesar programme to air traffic management practice? any other questions i ask would just be a repetition of brian simpson's questions.
i voted against the report by mr manka on the eu budget for this year. i do not agree that the european parliament should go in the opposite direction and sharply increase its expenditure in a time of economic crisis and the need to investigate public expenditure. i do not agree that the european parliament should take on 150 more staff, nor do i agree that members of the european parliament should receive additional new money for their assistants over and above what we are already receiving. the report by mr manner gives meps an extra €1 500 per month this year and another €1 500 per month, according to the report by mrs trüpel, which was voted on yesterday. this will cost taxpayers an additional eur 13,4 million per year. already, meps are the target of public criticism for the large sums of public money they have at their disposal. any further increases would meet with justified public anger across europe, which is why i did not vote for this proposal.
in writing. − i am pleased that the new energy efficiency legislation for products has finally been adopted after a long period of debate between the european parliament and the council, and that i had the honour of being its shadow rapporteur for the european people's party. the advantage is the extension of class a, which allows differentiation between an ever-growing group of energy-efficient appliances and at the same time motivates manufacturers to produce the most energy-efficient appliances possible. it is also important that the number of classes indicating the energy performance of individual products has not been increased, thus preserving the clarity of the overall concept. a total of 7 steps will enable consumers to make efficient choices when choosing goods on the market and thus contribute to reducing energy costs through their responsible behaviour. as regards the innovation of the obligation to indicate the energy class of products in advertising material, i consider it a success that this obligation has been limited to advertising containing price information or information relating to energy consumption. fortunately, the idea that advertising should be regulated only when and to the extent necessary has prevailed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, although, in parallel with the desirable effort to harmonise safety and quality requirements for human organs intended for transplantation, it is necessary to focus in particular on increasing the number of donors in the various member states, taking into account the different national traditions of health systems. this area must therefore be examined rigorously in the light of the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report, but i believe that the main focus should be on increasing the number of donors in the member states, taking into account the different national traditions of health systems. this area must therefore be examined rigorously in the light of the principle of subsidiarity.
we have been discussing the desired strategic direction of the european union all day today. i think, however, that we should first of all ask the citizens and those closest to them, i.e. the mayors and the municipal representatives, about the desirable future developments. in this respect, i am very disappointed that the role of local authorities is not sufficiently reflected in the eu 2020 strategy. while the strategy correctly states the need for greater involvement of regional and local partners, it is not clear how the partnership principle should be applied in practice. moreover, the consultation process is voluntary and therefore not binding on member states' decisions. i can confirm this with a concrete example. when the union of towns and municipalities of the czech republic made comments on our government's position on the eu 2020 strategy, not only were these comments not incorporated, but they also did not receive a proper response, including their settlement. if we want to avoid a repeat of the failure of the lisbon strategy, we must not continue to ignore the voice of local authorities, which are part of the public administration in all member states and whose role is crucial in the implementation of any european policy. on the contrary, mandatory consultation of the 'lower' actors would provide essential insights for the correct, efficient and effective implementation of the measures taken. i would therefore like to call on the commission to monitor closely the way in which local authorities are involved in the whole process.
education is certainly our priority. but what kind? in one issue of the economist, a study found that 80 percent of the skills and knowledge that executives in large companies consider essential are not taught in universities at all. the result is a frightening number of college graduates who are unemployed. i think we can all agree that the solution is to connect business and universities. this is repeatedly highlighted in various documents, including the leipzig charter for sustainable european cities. the key is how to achieve this connection. i think the right way to do this is to incorporate internships of several months, not just for students, but for professors as an integral part of the lifelong learning process. it is necessary that not only students but also teachers maintain regular contact with the real world. co-financing of such traineeships should become an integral part of university budgets. for businesses, this process involves considerable effort and often considerable expense.
for the group gue/ngl. i would like to say that the kozloduy programme cannot be oriented solely towards financing the transfer of irradiated substances, to increase energy efficiency in bulgaria and to finance alternative energy sources. in my view, this programme must also be seen as a contribution to the economic and social stability of the balkans. because the balkan countries as a whole and bulgaria are among the vulnerable parts of the european union, as the current economic crisis has shown us. i believe that the framework that must not be violated is article 30 of the accession treaty, as the legal consultations with the people of the european commission have shown. although this access agreement or arrangement was exhausted in 2009, the new arrangement must continue in the spirit of continuity as set out in article 30.
the first item on the agenda is the report by mr vincent peillon, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the union for the mediterranean (a7-0133/2010). and i'll give our reporter four minutes.
let me just apologise for the council. the representative of the council could not be here today because it is thursday morning and the debate on this report was originally scheduled for monday.
thank you, i will. i was just trying to explain what the council said. i will, thank you very much.
colleagues, please keep to your time. it is 10.57, and at 12.00 we have the votes.
the union for the mediterranean is undoubtedly also a bold intercultural project, whose success depends, among other things, on the willingness to overcome different cultural and social traditions. cultural diversity leads to mutual enrichment if its impulses are openly perceived as opportunities rather than threats. one of these opportunities is access to gender equality in society. this is an area that is perceived as sensitive in the context of this region. the union for the mediterranean must therefore pay due attention to this issue, not only because of the commitment of the marrakesh ministerial conference of november 2009 to promote equality between women and men de jure and de facto, to strengthen the role of women in society, including their participation in public life, and to combat violence against women. it is one of the key areas that can unlock and offer enormous human potential for the entire region, which can only be gained by doing so. the double standards and the reluctance to change, often based on the pretext of customs and traditions, cannot therefore be accepted, but should be rejected as an obstacle to the development of the mediterranean region.
mr president, the water flooding into poland is flooding from the czech republic, where it caused enormous damage in the first stage of these floods. the czech republic is also part of the european union.
in writing. the eu is currently in a very schizophrenic situation. on the one hand, there is a clear requirement for universities to prepare practically oriented professionals in the bachelor's degree. on the other hand, people who really understand technical education realize that the first three years of a university degree are meant to provide students with a theoretical foundation for further successful studies. and that's the root of all misunderstandings. the forum of universities and entrepreneurs, in whatever format, will always focus on 'practically applicable' graduates. however, the real bearers of fundamental research and significant innovation are mainly graduates of engineering, master's and doctoral studies. however, in order to achieve significant results in their fields, these graduates must acquire a sound foundation in the most important technical disciplines in the first three years of their studies. it is hard to imagine that they will be satisfied with high school mathematics and a basic knowledge of basic technical sciences, supplemented by an examination in simple and double accounting and a practical knowledge of project preparation applicable in a grant agency. a responsible college professor will, through all the statements, forums, communications, and new partnerships, hold a view that is unlikely to differ significantly from mine. for further discussion, i therefore recommend that a clear distinction be made between bologna higher education and 'classical' higher education. of course, new complementary forms of so-called lifelong learning are also desirable.
in writing. the south caucasus is a very interesting area that has been constantly discussed in europe for two hundred years. these are places where the interests of russia, iran and turkey have been clashing all along. the rugged landscape and rich history suggest a vast complexity of ethnic and religious backgrounds. the eu has recently discovered this region. it is quite moving how mrs tagliavini, on the basis of her meetings in georgia, has a perfect knowledge of the whole area, including the historical and current context. i really bow to her deeply. it is excellent that organisations such as the osce have been taken into account by the authors of the report in their call for a new eu strategy for the south caucasus region. it is a pity that they seem to have missed the relations of the states of the region with iran and also missed the specific intentions of turkey in the region. beyond all doubt, the authors have forgotten the famous declaration of the independent state of kosovo and their open outbursts towards russia and the non-recognition of local elections in abkhazia and south ossetia, as the wording 'de facto authorities of the occupied territories' shows. this reminds me strongly of the conclusions of a mission by a certain lord runcinman in the pre-war czechoslovak republic. i believe, however, that in the near future we will be able to improve the information of my honourable colleagues on this area of europe and that the next resolution will be more balanced. for the reasons set out above, the gue/ngl group abstained from the final vote on the resolution.
for more than a decade, we've been watching the internet of things gradually change our world, our habits, and we're just on the threshold of the possibilities of this super-digital revolution. i very much like the report by mrs cutchet because it points out that we need new european legislation to support the development of an additional network architecture for the internet of things, to ensure interoperability between different systems, to anticipate the increased security risks of cyberspace. but we also need high-quality and timely assessments of the impact of the increasing amount of radio waves on human and animal health, including birds and small animals in cities. consumers should be able to identify on each package the location of passive and active rfid tags, their reading range, and the type of data received and transmitted. we should ensure that our citizens can use and interact with chips safely, that is, protect their chips from being infected and data being misused, but also allow people to silence the chips embedded in the things that surround us. the development of the internet of things cannot be left without a regulatory framework to ensure precautionary measures. this is a clear political signal and a task for the european commission.
the internet has been controlled without government involvement. from a safety point of view, this self-regulation is no longer acceptable. cyberterrorism or the unilateral influence of states like china and their intelligence agencies seems very urgent. the us government has influence on key decisions about the internet today, because the main organization is governed by california law, and that may not be good for the european union in the future. i support the commission's desire to reform the internal structures of the internet's governing bodies towards greater transparency and accountability. but i don't think that the inclusion of internet governance under a un agency is a happy thing, i think it's a very inflexible solution. we need an effective appeal mechanism against any major decisions of the existing organisation, for example in the form of arbitration. we also need to increase the democratic nature of representation. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take into account the specificities of the product concerned, in particular the specificities of the product concerned and the specificities of the product concerned. i trust that the european commission will take all this into account.
in writing. the aim of the food information report is to consolidate seven existing directives and one regulation and to clarify existing rules at both european and national level. the existing inconsistency causes uncertainty and confusion in the information on the composition and nutritional values that are indicated on the food. the side effects of these changes to the eu's uniform food labelling are to strengthen the competitiveness of european producers and to promote a healthy diet for the population. i am fundamentally opposed to the commission's proposal to leave the member states a wide margin of discretion in their own legislation. this would lead to further fragmentation and disunity in the internal food market and would completely defeat the main objective of the regulation, which is to ensure uniform and clear labelling of foodstuffs. the 3 mm typeface commission proposed is in many cases not feasible in practice. compliance would require a change in the size of the individual packages, which would logically lead to an increase in the cost of manufacturing the packaging, the transport of the packaged products, the size of the storage space, the price of the food and the subsequent ecological disposal of the packaging. the commission has completely neglected small farmers and the direct sale of unpackaged products. it is unacceptable that the commission should present us with such unbalanced and incompletely worked out proposals without taking account of the latest scientific findings. i agree in principle with the revised version of the envi report and will therefore vote in favour of the new version.
mr president, commissioner, i have been listening very carefully to the debate this afternoon on the credit rating agencies, and i am certainly not an advocate of the credit rating agencies or their advocate. on the other hand, i am not afraid of the emergence of monopoly or oligopoly relationships between the rating agencies, not at all. but i've never heard a speech here that points to where the big debts came from, how some of these states got into financial trouble that they can't get out of. i think it would be quite good to talk about the system of state interference in the functioning of the free market. and maybe if we were to go in that direction in our thinking, we would have less of a concern with the rating agencies.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by wolf klinz, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, se separate paje (com(2009)0491 - c7-0170/2009 - 2009/0132(cod)) (a7-0102/2010).
madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the economic downturn and the financial crisis undoubtedly have a gender dimension as well. the inequalities we face are likely to continue to deepen. wage differentials, pressure on labour law, social protection in relation to maternity and labour market conditions are just a few examples. budget cuts in the context of the crisis in individual countries are an inexorable reality. they mainly affect public services and their availability. most power stations are not affected by austerity measures. so they're saving where they expect the least resistance from those affected by these budget cuts, and they're relying on people to do it themselves because there's just no other way. caring for children and grandparents remains a duty under all circumstances. and it is mainly women who have to do the job. the reduction in funding for the social services sector, which employs predominantly women, is also at the top of the list of austerity measures. it is the responsibility of individual governments to look at their budgetary austerity intentions and their impacts from this perspective and to carefully choose a balanced approach at the expense of the population.
in writing. the 25th summit of the russian federation and the european union raises the question of whether the regularity of such meetings does not lead to underestimation of their importance and poor preparation. i do not want to downplay the importance of the eu-russia summit meeting for developing cooperation and removing legacies of confrontation. what was the benefit of the last summit? it was the first summit of its kind to be held after the ratification of the lisbon treaty and the adoption of the europe 2020 strategy. however, i have not seen any new approaches from brussels. there were a few abstract promises to help russia modernise and statements that the union, unlike the us, did not need to 'reset' relations with russia, but simply to 'follow the path'. moscow's proposals to introduce visa-free travel for russian and eu citizens were not heard. even though the experience has shown that there is no danger of starving migration from the east and that the current system is not an obstacle to the operation of international crime, brussels is silent. i would remind you that during the recent visit of the russian president to turkey, an agreement on visa-free travel between russia and turkey was signed. similarly, russia's application to join the wto is not without its challenges. the ep should remind those who are preparing these summits for the eu that the europe 2020 strategy requires better preparation. i recommend that consideration be given to holding joint meetings of meps and the russian state duma, which would contribute to better mutual understanding and to the substantive preparation of summits.
in writing. the report on the baltic sea joint research programme addresses the possibilities for community participation in research activities in the baltic sea, which have long been carried out by eight eu member states, denmark, estonia, finland, germany, latvia, lithuania, poland and sweden. however, the activity is uncoordinated and has a low cross-border effect. the community contribution is intended to bring together the national research programmes and activities of the participating states into a single joint programme, bonus, and to support the achievement of the research and environmental objectives for the baltic sea region, the marine strategy and the water framework directive. i welcome the involvement of scientists from the russian federation in the bonus project, as the vast baltic area is its territory and thus has a direct impact on the baltic sea ecosystem. from the financial cost point of view, bonus is not a new project for the community, but follows on from and is intended to be a de facto continuation of similar programmes which have already been or will be terminated, i.e. era (20042006) and era-net plus (20072011). i fully support the intention to secure funding from the participating states to ensure the sustainability of this activity after the end of eu funding. i agree with the report as a whole and i will support it with my vote.
in writing. i believe that the additional and additional requirements for food labelling will not help to change significantly the dietary habits compared to the cost of introducing these measures. nor will it eliminate the main problem of obesity and related diseases in the population, which is primarily a mismatch between energy intake and expenditure related to lack of physical activity. my grandmother used to say, "eat half a loaf, drink half a loaf, and you'll live a long life". i apologize for this oversimplification, but it expresses my attitude to this proposal. i abstained from the vote.
ladies and gentlemen, the flood problem is without doubt the most serious issue we are dealing with here in strasbourg this week. for our fellow citizens, flooding is becoming a recurring threat with real impacts on their property and, of course, their health. the european union, which stands for solidarity, support and cooperation, is helping the affected areas through the solidarity fund. the fund allows financial support to be granted to states provided that the estimated damage exceeds eur 3 billion or more than 0,6% of the gdp of the member state. however, recent floods in central europe have shown that despite the overall damage caused by the heavy rains, some countries, especially smaller ones, are not individually able to meet the limits set and therefore cannot receive aid. since the solidarity fund should primarily serve the reconstruction of the affected european territory, it is necessary to provide for greater flexibility in the submission of joint applications reflecting overall damage and not only partial damage recorded in individual member states. i would therefore like to invite the commission to take steps to revise the relevant regulation in this respect.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i come before you as the representative of a country that has been hit by flooding in recent weeks. although their devastating effect was not as great in the czech republic as in neighbouring poland, they left their destructive traces especially in the moravian regions. i am therefore pleased that, despite my warning, the resolution we are discussing does not only refer to poland but to the whole of the central european region. the idea of solidarity is one of the most striking features of european cooperation, and it is this idea that i would like to call on you to consider. as europeans, we should always be ready to join forces and help those in need. we have shown our concern for those affected by natural disasters since 2002, when the solidarity fund was set up in response to the widespread flooding in the countries of central europe. the annual budget of the fund, which is about eur 1 billion, should be sufficient to cover this year's flood damage. however, european assistance must be requested by the affected states. in this context, i would like to draw attention to the difficult starting position of the czech republic, which arises from the fact that the flood damage calculated so far does not reach the required minimum of 0,6% of gdp. the only hope of obtaining a contribution from the solidarity fund for the czech republic is to make use of the second subparagraph of article 2 (2) of the solidarity fund regulation, which provides that, exceptionally, a neighbouring member state that has been affected by a natural disaster on a smaller scale may also apply for a contribution. the connection between the floods in poland and the czech republic is obvious. after all, the rivers that run off the coast of both states originate in the czech republic. there's no time to lose. the application for assistance from the solidarity fund must be submitted within 10 weeks of the first damage occurring, which in our case means by the end of july. that's not much, especially in a situation where the czech republic is negotiating the formation of a government. in conclusion, let me thank the president of the european parliament, mr jerzy buzek, for his personal visit to the affected areas in the east of our country.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the recent floods in central europe have caused enormous damage and loss of life. the european union's assistance, if it is provided, and i believe it is, should be directed, together with national resources, not only towards the reconstruction of destroyed infrastructure, but in the long term primarily towards the implementation of flood control measures in close cross-border coordination. all measures must aim to prevent similar disasters from recurring and, if they do, to minimise their impact. after all, moravia, in the eastern part of the czech republic, is experiencing similarly devastating flooding again 13 years after its restoration. however, floods are also an opportunity to make a careful assessment of what type of flood control measures will be most effective, environmentally and human-friendly. flooding has become a european problem, yesterday in central europe, today in southern france. it is therefore appropriate to consider a european flood strategy. the european union should be the independent moderator of this discussion and the consultant helping to find the most effective solution.
in writing. the world's population of some whale species is now critically endangered, almost entirely by human activities. no part of the human population is food dependent on the whaling industry. there is no justification for killing whales today, and 'whaling for scientific purposes', 'forced feeding' or 'traditional hunting' are just pretexts to circumvent the 1986 moratorium on commercial whaling. any hunting of cetaceans is highly unethical, inhumane and contrary to the applicable laws of the european union, in particular council directive 92/43/eec. the eu is therefore obliged to act as unitedly as possible and to exert its diplomatic influence in the iwc negotiations in morocco in order to ensure an effective administrative and legal framework for the protection of whales and its uncompromising enforcement, including the use of international diplomatic and legal measures. the eu must not support the lifting or curtailing of the moratorium on commercial whaling. the moratorium should be extended to other species of cetaceans. existing marine protected areas must be maintained and new ones established where whaling would be completely prohibited. the prohibition on international trade in whale products must be strictly enforced. in the case of iceland, unconditional cessation of whaling must be a condition of admission to the eu. any killing of cetaceans in eu countries must be punished as severely as possible.
the next item is the vote. (for results and other voting details, see minutes)
i adjourn the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 4.15 p.m.)
mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, i am a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. we had professor monti there several times, whom you asked to process the so-called monti report. i myself called the message very sexy, but i had great doubts about courage. the courage of politicians at european level and the courage of politicians at national level to propose and implement these 'sexy' proposals. i would just like to ask, perhaps indirectly: there have been rumors (in czech) that the european commission and the european council are considering the introduction of the so-called 'super euro' and 'worse euro'. i would be very cautious about this, because in europe we have the experience of the eastern and western mark, which divided europe in the form of an iron curtain. thank you, sir.
in writing. the upcoming european parliament and council regulation on passenger rights in bus and coach transport should increase passenger rights in this transport, set quality standards comparable to rail and air transport and unify the applicable legislative conditions for transport from all member states. parliament was right to demand in its first reading that carriers should be fully liable for the death and injury of passengers caused by the carrier, and that they should be entitled to advance payments in the event of economic difficulties resulting from a road accident. the proposal also prohibited any discrimination on grounds of disability or reduced mobility. we demanded a refund of 50% of the fare plus the ticket price and assistance in case of cancellation or delay of a connection in the form of food, drink, free accommodation and transportation to a place from where it is possible to continue the journey by other means. only suburban and urban transport was to be exempted from this regulation. however, the council has completely changed the scope and level of passenger rights in this transport and even calls for the exclusion of regional scheduled and national scheduled and international services for up to 15 years. by accepting its opinion, we are not in fact guaranteeing any passenger rights and are merely confirming the minimum liability of the carrier in law. i cannot agree with this position in any way and i ask you to support the ep's position at first reading.
for the ecr group. one of the key questions we face in the field of transportation is how to deal with transportation in cities. while more than 70% of the european union's population lives in cities today, by 2050 it will be almost 85%. in addition, cities are an important and integral part of transport networks, as they are transport hubs where different modes of transport intersect. traffic usually starts and ends there. for these reasons, cities deserve our primary attention. unless we change our habits and attitudes, the increase in urbanization and the increasing share of the urban population will lead to more traffic congestion and greater environmental problems. we therefore need to better integrate urban transport with different modes of transport, including public transport. we must make it possible to establish functional urban regions to which both european and national resources will be directed. an integrated approach is needed, focusing on the whole, not just on individual elements such as building a new bridge, widening the road or supporting parking spaces. new technologies must be the main driver of urban transport development. these technologies provide more accurate information to city planners, increase the productivity of transport companies and improve the quality of life of residents. they can reduce congestion, fuel consumption and co2 emissions. for example, the introduction of a smart toll system in stockholm has significantly reduced traffic congestion and co2 emissions. they used the city entry fees to bring london's road traffic down to its 1980s level. all this with an adequate supply of accessible urban public transport. this is the way we have to go.
the future of transport is also undoubtedly in the development and promotion of public transport. the targets of doubling their users by 2020 are moving in the right direction. however, the question remains as to how the consequences of the economic crisis and the policy of budget cuts will be felt in the long term. in particular, the new member states are currently subject to enormous social pressure to individual car transport with all the negative consequences, including increased co2 emissions or road accidents. the pressure to limit public transport is particularly strong on local and regional authorities and maintaining it should be a european priority before irreversible damage is done. finding an effective and motivating way to promote public transport must be an important task for any european transport policy, now more than ever.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday 6 july 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by carlos josé iturgaiz angulo, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the deliberations of the committee on petitions during the year 2009 (2009/2139(ini)) (a7-0186/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday 6 july 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the d8 motorway connecting prague and dresden is also part of the trans-european motorway network. this highway has been under construction since the '80s. it was originally supposed to be finished by the year 2000. it's now clear that the delays are making 2012 unrealistic. the problem is the ten-mile [16 km] stretch that runs through the protected landscape area of the czech central highlands. the project is to be financed by european funds amounting to approximately czk 8 billion, with co-financing from both the european union and the czech republic. however, in mid-march this year, the czech republic again announced that the assessment of the d8 motorway project was suspended and took another four-month period to reconsider. of course, we cannot agree with that. it's bad public perception, it's bad for the environment, people are dying on the roundabouts. i would therefore like to ask the european commission to kindly speed up the process of deliberation and final opinion.
in writing. in the european union, 118 to 138 million tonnes of bio-waste are produced annually, of which 88 million tonnes are biodegradable municipal waste. up to 40% of bio-waste is landfilled. such practices pose a significant risk of groundwater and soil pollution and contribute to greenhouse gas emissions. this leads to the irreversible disposal of biological material resources from the economic and natural cycle, instead of enhancing soil productivity, including its water-holding capacity, through quality compost. in the context of the need to make massive use of compost in agriculture, it would be appropriate for the commission to press for the unblocking of the soil framework directive in the european council. the main shortcoming in the field of bio-waste management is the different level of implementation of existing legislation in the member states. i therefore welcome and fully support the request that the commission should draw up a proposal for a separate directive on the management of bio-waste by the end of 2010. the commission's approach to this issue must change, it must be significantly more proactive and far more ambitious than it has been so far. i also believe that it is necessary to strengthen the educational elements in the field of waste management. the best and most effective way to promote recycling and waste prevention is to create the necessary social demand. the most direct way to do this is to educate the young generation and to introduce sustainable waste management as a societal norm.
the problem of transport links between the baltic states and neighbouring regions was rightly one of the most discussed topics during the recent visit of the committee on transport and tourism to latvia and estonia. it is not only the direct links to the east, where there are significant bottlenecks (for example, the border town of narva, both estonian and eu, with a waiting time of several days for crossing the border), but also the links to the more remote regions of europe. in this respect, the so-called baltic-nuclear corridor, linking the baltic sea region to southern europe, is of undisputed benefit. it has the clear support of all the regions and municipalities concerned and will also lead to further positive effects for the economic development of territories far beyond the borders of the baltic sea macro-region.
i reject the arguments put forward by the opponents. i want to remind you that since february, when the swift agreement was blocked by the left and the eurosceptics, banking data is being transferred without any contractual basis. remember, there have been no known cases of any misuse of sensitive data of europeans since september 2001. i appreciate that the european parliament has achieved, thanks to the lisbon treaty, that it will now be a european official, and not an american official or a member of europol, who will decide in the states whether to hand over any individualised data. i ask the commissioner to indicate the date on which the names of the three candidates for this post will be known. i would like to say to those who have always opposed european-american cooperation that it is our duty to protect the lives of citizens effectively from terrorist attacks. this agreement now provides high safeguards while protecting data and offering the possibility of litigation for damages if commercial data is ever misused. i thank the members of the commission and the members of the libe committee for this result.
let me explain my vote on mr karas' report on the quality of statistical data. the report certainly has a number of very good points, but i abstained because i do not share the rapporteur's belief that eurostat should have the right to intervene in the exercise of the rights of the national statistical authorities without any prior warning.
the outcome of the vote on the report by mr cancian showed that the european parliament, unlike the council, has clear priorities, particularly as regards safeguarding the rights of citizens travelling in europe by bus. this strong position will allow us to improve the protection of passenger rights, in particular for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility. it is about abolishing article 11, the possibility of refusing them a reservation, and we also impose on companies the obligation to provide free assistance when boarding a bus and during the journey, as is the case in air transport. it will enable disabled citizens to travel independently in europe, improving their quality of life. the strong position of parliament is a show of strength to the member states, who, i believe, will no longer have the opportunity to weaken this proposal at second reading in the council.
mr. chairman, thank you very much for the opportunity to explain your vote on the green paper on the management of biological waste. it is a general framework, the aims of which i agree with. however, i would point out that before drawing up legislative proposals, the commission should also complement the current global approach by taking into account our commitments to food security and food structure, both in the eu and in developing countries where millions of people are hungry. and to conduct a more in-depth analysis of the overall environmental effects of the conversion of biomass to alternative energy sources. as a doctor, i also consider it crucial that member states monitor the safe disposal of hazardous, i.e. toxic, biological waste on their territory.
in writing. bus transport is the only sector which has not yet adopted a european-wide passenger rights regulation. the persistence of different levels of protection for passengers depending on the mode of transport they use is unsustainable. that is why i voted for the report on the rights of bus passengers. unfortunately, member states are playing along with the carriers and are hampering stronger passenger rights. the european parliament, however, is making sure that people travelling by bus will have the same rights as those travelling by plane and train. i understand that in the event of an inadvertent delay in arrival, the passenger will be entitled to compensation of 25% of the fare if the delay exceeds one hour, and 50% of the ticket price if the delay exceeds two hours. i also consider that passengers' rights are significantly enhanced by the possibility for them, in the event of a cancellation or delay of a connection of more than two hours, to choose between continuing to their destination at no additional cost or receiving a refund of the fare and compensation of 50% of the fare. another benefit is the right to food, hotel accommodation and alternative services for passengers in the event of cancellation or delay of more than one hour on long-haul routes. the european parliament also voted to require that the carrier be liable for loss of or damage to checked baggage up to eur 1800 and, in the case of hand baggage, up to eur 1300.
in writing. the economic crisis has of course also led to an increase in the eu unemployment rate. young people, along with those in their pre-retirement years, have been hit the hardest. the unemployment rate of young people under 25 is over 5.5 million, or 21.4%, almost double the eu average. youth unemployment is a big problem. it causes, on the one hand, the loss of hope and the vitality of the persons concerned, their gradual complete social exclusion, the decrease of the tax base of the state, the increase of the social expenditure of the state and, on the other hand, it brings more poverty, disease and crime. in europe, we traditionally expect young people to contribute to their parents and grandparents, and to help them financially, especially in times of economic crisis. how can they meet our expectations if they are unemployed when they enter the workforce? all member states should adopt priorities and strategies based on their national specificities, but we should put in place a common eu-wide strategy to combat youth unemployment. the report by mrs turunen is the first step in this direction and i fully support it.
in writing. the report on atypical contracts, secure career paths, flexicurity and new forms of social dialogue responds to the labour market situation in the current economic crisis. every effort should be made to preserve as many jobs as possible, but they must be of good quality. at present, there is a strong expansion of employment in the form of so-called atypical and very atypical contracts across the eu. these are contracts for less than six months, for less than 10 hours per week or contracts concluded orally. the economic and social situation is the one that most compels young people under 25 and the so-called pre-retirement age, and women, to agree to such employment provisions. we should consider whether this is an adequate response to the market situation and to clarify or limit the possibilities of concluding such contracts and to maximise the transition to jobs of higher quality rather than the maintenance of the number of jobs, if a significant part of them have such value. i fully support the report and will vote for its adoption.
in writing. − waste is the fourth largest source of greenhouse gas emissions after energy, industry and agriculture, with landfilling the main source. landfilling poses a huge threat not only to methane production but also to the potential contamination of groundwater, soil and, of course, the land area where the waste is landfilled. this is where a growing area of irreplaceable loss of land value occurs. biological waste is the most commonly landfilled waste worldwide, and only a negligible percentage is sorted and recycled. up to 100 million tonnes of kitchen and garden waste and up to 37 million tonnes of waste from the food and drink industries are produced in the eu each year. however, biowaste has an important role to play in the fight against climate change and, if used, represents a huge potential for renewable energy production. the european population is already aware of the need to sort waste. however, biological waste almost always ends up in landfills. in some of the old member states, biowaste can be contained, processed and recovered. in the new member states, it is almost impossible to separate, in addition to plastics, glass and paper, biological waste, because the citizen has nowhere to put it. it is therefore necessary to create conditions for the recycling and re-energetisation of bio-waste in each of the eu member states. the report addresses the issue adequately, and i shall vote in favour of its adoption.
for the ecr group. i've been listening to this debate this afternoon and i think there's been some pretty serious sentences here. the first sentence was spoken by president barroso when he said that we are willing to do anything to save the euro. and the second sentence was said by someone in your audience when you said that a stronger or more cohesive european union could save financial stability. that's the whole point of the debate about financial architecture, about oversight of financial architecture. there is a monetary union. monetary union cannot be separated - even by economic science - from fiscal union, and fiscal union cannot exist without political union. the citizens sitting here watching us can rightly ask themselves, "so what's your solution?" so let's say to them: 'we want to create a political union, but because we have already gone through the catharsis of the lisbon treaty, we need to do it outside of you. we need to do this outside of your decision. and that, i think, is the wrong approach.
as rapporteur for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i regret that there is no agreement between the council and parliament before the second reading, despite the fact that the regulation will allow a harmonised authorisation procedure in a single place in the union, access to the entire single market, i.e. less bureaucracy, less financial claims, easier access to the market for traditional food from third countries, improved food safety assessment, support for innovation. i already put forward in my opinion at first reading that in ethically sensitive cases the opinion of the european group on ethics in science and new technologies would be required. the point at issue is now cloned animal products, which i personally do not support, and the labelling of products from animals fed genetically modified food. however, this regulation did not originally cover genetically modified food covered by other directives and we should ask the commission to review it. but before that, this house should say that meat from cloned animals is not part of our agricultural policy.
it is certainly very important to push for a reduction in the emission of hazardous substances in industry. this process is very important. on the other hand, it should not be a straight line, an administrative line, because it can happen that, because of the economy, because of the pressure of different solutions, we could get the exact opposite. there can be a shutdown, and the cost of solving the problems that follow is much worse than if we were really looking for the best solution. i also don't believe that it is possible to push companies to just find and use the best technologies, i see it as an important mechanism to find the best solution so that emissions actually decrease. i speak as someone who has been mayor and alderman of a very complex industrial area for 16 years, where it has often been very difficult to deal with this in the context of discussions.
i would first of all like to express my sincere admiration for the incredible work of the rapporteur, mr krahmer, not only in terms of expertise but also in terms of negotiations, because to reach a compromise and a balanced result in a complex and sensitive piece of legislation of this kind is almost a superhuman feat. the new directive will thus finally harmonise the procedures applied in the european union and will help to reduce the administrative burden, ending the disparities in the implementation and enforcement of the rules in the member states. i am aware of the dissatisfaction of the citizens' initiatives and the regions in my own country with the outcome of the trilogue, but i am also aware that, although the european parliament has not been able to make all its demands and comments known, a strong compromise has been reached which will actually reduce emissions and improve the environment, not only in europe. the transitional national plans, together with the possibility of exemptions for large combustion plants, will slow down the modernisation process to some extent, but at the same time will give national economies that are dependent on coal the opportunity to innovate within realistic timeframes. the requirement to create a european safety net has been weakened, but the european commission will have to reassess the minimum emission limits at regular intervals, thus providing a basis for a european emissions benchmark. strict rules on granting deferrals in connection with the introduction of best available technologies have been enforced, albeit with a considerable degree of flexibility granted to the competent authorities. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i am convinced that the compromise negotiated between the council and the european parliament is a sensible solution to the ambitious review of integrated air pollution prevention and control in the union. it builds on the political consensus reached under the czech presidency on temporary exemptions for existing facilities which urgently need time and resources for extensive modernisation, which is no easy task, especially in times of economic crisis. as a doctor, of course, i would welcome a more drastic reduction in emissions limits, but that's not realistic in practice. i am glad that in the czech republic there is already an agreement with industry and that there is a national plan to gradually reduce the emission ceilings so that the new limits should be met within ten years. i fear that accepting any further proposals beyond the scope of the hard-won compromise would bury the whole review for years to come. congratulations to all the negotiators.
in writing. it is a known fact that every year in various countries of the world thousands of acres of forest are lost without replacement. in many cases, illegal mining is also found in eu countries. even in developed countries like the czech republic, timber is stolen by selective logging or by holodeckers without the owner's knowledge. of course, not only do farming forests have an ecological function, but the very name of a farming forest tells us that the desired product is also wood. it is important that legislation is taken to restore the optimal composition of wood in the forest. this also includes the regulation of livestock, especially the tall ones. it is appropriate to address these issues at the appropriate level, i.e. national or regional. even the best of directives cannot affect the damage caused to the economy of individual regions by the export of all wood outside the boundaries of the region. i believe that the proposals contained in the ep report are in line with the existing positions of this highest community legislative body and that it is appropriate to support them to the maximum extent possible. the accelerated entry into force of the regulation, the penalties for infringements and the prohibition of trading are the minimum necessary. the efforts of some governments to adopt an extremely liberal approach to the sector are reprehensible and may even damage the national economies of the countries which promote them in the council. the gue/ngl group will certainly support the rapporteur's proposals.
in writing. - i'm aware of how difficult it was to negotiate the compromise proposed. i appreciate that the principle of subsidiarity has been applied successfully in many of the provisions of the directive, reducing the number of powers delegated to the european commission. i also regard it as a success that some countries have not succeeded in pushing through the tightening of the proposal beyond the framework proposed by the commission itself. i consider all of this a triumph of reason. however, i am seriously concerned that the emergence of transitional national plans does not give enough room for individual plant operators to prepare themselves for the new limits. it is right that we are striving to achieve reductions in harmful emissions, but we must also bear in mind the economic implications of these steps and their rationality in terms of competitiveness and the specificities of the economies of individual member states. the forced closure of some facilities already in the middle of their life cycle will undoubtedly have an impact on final energy prices, but it will also affect the steel industry, which may have fatal economic consequences in some regions. therefore, i would personally appreciate the directive giving more flexibility to transitional national plans with a cut-off year not in 2020 or 2023 for terminal installations, but in 2025. despite the awareness of the difficulty of reaching the compromise proposed, i abstain in view of the competitiveness of the czech economy.
in writing. today we voted on the proposals concerning the legislative package on financial supervision in the eu. the dispute over the form of financial supervision concerns the extent of the powers that the newly created european institutions will have to oversee the functioning of banks, insurance companies and financial markets. in the legitimate effort to prevent a repeat of the financial crisis, it is necessary to proceed with a cool head and not succumb to hysteria. european financial market institutions should complement national institutions appropriately, rather than crowding them out. the problem of a bank, insurance undertaking or investment fund should always be addressed by the supervisory authority which is closest to the situation and therefore able to assess and evaluate it with the greatest sensitivity. and the european regulator is not and will not be in many cases. the veto of national governments in the decision-making of european regulators is, in my view, necessary to avoid the temptation and, at the same time, the danger of applying a single approach to different calamitous situations in financial markets in the member states. the emerging european financial supervisory institutions with virtually unlimited powers are reminiscent of the leviathan, to which states entrust their sovereign power in confidence, but they will be all the more vulnerable if it is misused or even abused.
the representative of the draftsman of the committee on international trade. − if you have the report by elmar brok and guy verhofstadt on the functioning of the european external action service is a compromise and, like any compromise, has its pros and cons. we regard as a major positive the fact that the european external action service will be accountable to the european parliament for political and budgetary control. however, this parliamentary scrutiny should be further strengthened to take due account of the position of national parliaments, in particular on foreign policy and security priorities, which the european external action service will promote on behalf of the european union as a whole. as regards the practical functioning, it is a pity that the report does not include the opinion of the european parliament's committee on international trade, which was also unanimously supported by the ppe and alde members in the committee. the core of this opinion was the clarification of the competences in relation to the directorate-general for trade of the european commission, which corresponds to the definition in accordance with articles 207 and 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
the european external action service will be a visible and important foreign policy instrument under the treaty of lisbon. we need a common foreign and security policy, not 27 politicians. i am grateful to my colleagues elmar brok and guy verhofstadt for having started negotiations with the council in good time and for having applied over 70 carefully prepared amendments to the commission's proposal. these reflect our deep conviction that the diplomatic service must represent the union and promote common intergovernmental interests, not partial national interests. it is therefore important that programming and financing be carried out by the commission and the parliamentary committee on budgets. all diplomats should also be paid from union funds and according to a single career scale, including the one-third nominated by the member states. they will certainly cooperate with national diplomatic missions, but we expect their loyalty to a common institution. i agree with the high representative that the quality of diplomats will be paramount. but i would remind the commission that we will also be careful to ensure a balanced geographical representation of diplomats and staff at all levels. this is important, in particular, to ensure that all member states accept this service as their own and identify with its objectives. i would like to call on the commission to actively guard against this service being labelled as serving the interests of only some of the large countries of the union.
for the s&d group. let me say a few words about albania. albania has made considerable progress on its path towards european integration. this is, after all, reflected in the report by mr nikolaos chountis, to whom i would like to thank for this very good report. but much remains to be done. at this point, i would first mention the issue of strengthening democracy and the rule of law. albania is wasting too much energy, too much precious time, on the inability of the government and the opposition to find common ground and work together on vital priorities. these priorities include reaching a consensus on the 2009 elections. here it is necessary that all political parties take responsibility, engage in dialogue and implement the decision to establish a parliamentary committee of inquiry to draft the necessary changes to the electoral law, before the next municipal elections, i.e. next year. the main political parties also need to reach consensus on economic reforms. little progress has been made so far, for example in consolidating property rights, registering real estate, registering state land, legalizing illegal construction, etc. the proportion of the grey and black economy in the albanian economy remains disproportionately high and, of course, the level of corruption. on the contrary, significant progress has been made in the past year in fulfilling the conditions and criteria for achieving visa-free travel. i would therefore welcome the recent adoption of the commission's legislative proposal on visa liberalisation and i believe that the other conditions will be met in the coming months so that the council and this parliament can approve the introduction of visa-free travel for albanian citizens this year.
mr kovács, may i just remind you that this is a joint debate on kosovo and albania. it is neither a debate on hungarians nor on vojvodina, so next time please keep to the topic we have on the agenda.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the grounds for our actions often confusingly combine a somewhat biased analysis of the situation with the feelings of the authors and with vague recommendations. i note these facts: first, kosovo's independence was prepared and proclaimed in contravention of international law. the basis in this case is un security council resolution 1244, which states that kosovo remains part of serbia. the secession of kosovo from serbia is the result of the unclean practices of secret diplomacy, which is based on a double standard. secondly, the creation of two essentially ethnically pure albanian states side by side is only a temporary prelude to the creation of a greater albania. the annexation of kosovo to albania has always been the goal of the kosovo separatists. third, kosovo's independence has only been recognised by some eu states, especially those most responsible for the illegal bombing of yugoslavia in 1999. fourth, the so-called kosovo itself is completely non-independent. an artificial, unhistorical state has been created that is economically, politically and militarily unviable. it exists today only because of foreign donations and international crime. the eu enlargement with some balkan states only masks the efforts of the kosovo fathers to subsidize pristina from eu funds. even if we the european parliament, the union as a whole and europe in general manage to resolve the kosovo problem better ourselves, the basic fact remains unchanged: kosovo's secession was contrary to international law.
the biggest injustice of the current cap is that subsidies are distributed unequally and unfairly between the old and new member states. this year, farmers in the new member states, which joined in 2004, are receiving only 70% of what farmers in the old european union, the so-called '15,' were receiving. the bulgarians and romanians even only 40%. all of them operate within the european union's single market. i believe that this injustice must be removed as soon as possible. all farmers throughout the union must enjoy equal status and the same conditions for receiving subsidies. i therefore support amendment no 6, which calls for this objective to be achieved as soon as possible, and i hope that my colleagues will support it.
colleagues, by way of explanation, i have about 18 people on the list. i understand that everybody would like to take the floor but we have five minutes for the catch-the-eye procedure – one minute each – so i can take five speakers. today i took eight speakers. i tried to distribute it evenly according to the strength of the political groups so, if you noticed, there were three speakers from the ppe group, two speakers from the pse group, one speaker from the alde group, one from the efd group and one from the non-attached members. so i think i have done the maximum i could have done.
commissioner, i am also sure that this will not be the last time we do so. the joint debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by alain cadec, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on arrangements for importing fishery and aquaculture products into the eu with a view to the future reform of the cfp (2009/2238(ini)) (a7-0207/2010).
mr gallagher, we have to carry on. i would like to ask all colleagues to please keep quiet so that we can work for 10 more minutes and finish this important report and important work.
we indicated that the votes would be postponed until 12.15 or 12.20, so please let us carry on with the answers from our commissioners. i am sure that we will be able to vote at 12.20.
by way of explanation, mr de gucht did not reply because of the noise in this room, so i would like to apologise to both our commissioners for the noise. the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly.
mr president, we are changing one word: ‘all electoral material’ should be replaced by ‘the electoral material’, so ‘the’ instead of ‘all’.
in writing. the motion for a resolution on the european integration process in the case of kosovo is a document whose author does not seem to live in the real world and does not know that kosovo is not a recognised member of the international community. the replacement of pressure to improve the internal economic situation, the coexistence of indigenous populations, i.e. serbs, goranci, roma and other nationalities currently in the majority with albanians, the prevention of bullying of minority populations and the crackdown on drug-distribution gangs across europe are key issues that can contribute to improving the situation on the ground and to strengthening cross-border cooperation. the population register has not been restored, and the country is still completely dependent on foreign economic aid. the political will to ensure at least fair municipal elections and conditions for the functioning of municipal offices is lacking. the fight against corruption and organised crime, as well as decentralisation and reform of public administration in the territory, is still a purely formal matter. therefore, it has no real impact on the situation in the country so far. widespread corruption, arms smuggling and drug trafficking are bringing unrest to the region. it is strange that the euro is used in this territory. in particular, the elementary conditions for such use of the single european currency do not appear to be met. clearly, the gue/ngl cannot agree to a similar proposal.
in writing. − i supported this report because i believe that the eu's common agricultural policy must remain a common european policy and that there should be no further renationalisation in this area. an important objective of the common agricultural policy must be to compare conditions for farmers in the eu, in particular as regards direct payments.
the european union is also committed to the protection of human rights and the rule of law in the dprk. the resolution calls for a moratorium on public executions, the abolition of the death penalty, the end to torture and the release of political prisoners. on the other hand, the call for food and humanitarian aid to be provided to all citizens in need is hypocritical. it is notorious that north korea has long had problems with food security, and if i am not mistaken, many countries in africa and asia have similar problems, and yet the european parliament has not accepted similar calls to the governments of these countries. this does not change the fact that there is a shortage of food and that this shortage is objectively a major problem and causes malnutrition and related health problems for a part of the country's population. the situation is undoubtedly serious and i am not at all convinced that any of the measures proposed in the resolution will bring about a significant improvement. the criticism of china by the authors is a classic hypocritical bluster to show the double standard of the authors. the european union countries are invited to accept refugees from north korea, while all of the european union's southern neighbours are invited to accept refugees. if this is not a double standard, then i really don't know what to call these hypocritical formulations. there is no hint in the entire resolution of any attempt to ease tensions and demilitarise the korean peninsula, because those are the necessary steps in the right direction. the whole gue/ngl group cannot vote on a resolution worded in this way.
madam president, commissioner, i welcome the progress we have made in negotiating the agreement with korea. of course, market development is our goal, development of competition helps us, and korea is undoubtedly a friendly country. on the other hand, there are still serious questions to be answered in the present form of the agreement. on the one hand, there are environmental commitments which should be reciprocal, on the other hand, there are human rights issues and there is also the fact that products from other countries are not coming into europe through this agreement with korea. all of this could threaten our jobs, it could threaten our businesses. i hope that, as we have done so far, we can move quickly forward and find an acceptable compromise. without that compromise, it would be very difficult for us to vote for this agreement.
in writing. ensuring a fair income for our farmers is one of the main objectives of the common agricultural policy. we are aware of the problematic situation in the food market. farmers are at a disadvantage in their negotiations with wholesalers and supermarket chains, and are forced to accept ever lower food purchase prices, while citizens buy basic foodstuffs at the same or ever-increasing prices. the profit margins of the sellers are also more than 200% on the way from the farmer to the buyer. the report points to a number of unfair contracting practices, limited market access and fees charged to producers for the inclusion of food products in the retail sector, late and deferred payments, unilateral changes to contracts, etc. the situation on the food market needs to be addressed urgently and a legislative framework for the management of both buying and selling prices needs to be found. price transparency in the food chain would help to increase competitiveness and avoid price fluctuations, and contribute to awareness among market partners of supply, demand, prices and negotiations. however, in my view, the only effective instrument is the definition of minimum prices covering production costs. this would ensure a fair income for farmers and prevent them from selling at a loss. this price could be the reference price in the negotiations between producer organisations and downstream sectors of the food chain.
i consider the failure to link the business registers to be a failure of the commission's coordination role. for three years now, member states have been required to keep business registers in electronic form. nineteen countries, including the latest new country, the czech republic, are sharing their data as part of the european trade register project. however, the quality and predictive value of the data vary widely. there is no legal responsibility and no data accuracy or there are no national but only regional business registers. i support the rapporteur and ask the commission to give this matter its due attention. it also asked the commission to provide the remaining eight member states, which are new members only, with appropriate assistance, including financial assistance. the cross-border availability of registers is important not only for creditors, business partners and consumers, but also for enhancing legal certainty and transparency in public procurement.
in writing. the report on the interconnection of business registers responds to the council conclusions of 25 and 26 may 2010. this initiative is part of the eu's comprehensive approach to consumer protection. i believe that any initiative that leads to transparent access to information on companies operating in the european union deserves support. i would like to emphasise that i support in particular the commission's call for the creation of a single point of access to information from business registers and, above all, the involvement of all eu member states. only in this way can a genuine and transparent area of consumer protection and legal certainty be achieved in the union's internal market as a whole.
it is a bad sign of our civilization that women over 65 are at a 5% higher risk of poverty than men. and that's because they've raised families, they've raised children, and that's why their lifetime earnings are lower than men's earnings on average. and that has to change. the time they spend caring for young children must be considered, not as vacation time, but as work for which they are entitled to a wage and also a pension contribution. and that should be true of men too, if they're devoted to the child instead of the mother. i do not agree, however, that states should take into account the specific situation of older lesbian, bisexual and transgender women. does this mean that they should have a higher status than other older women? i hope that such discriminatory articles will not pass the vote tomorrow.
i have a message for president barros. the dakota indians have a saying, "if you're riding a dead horse, ride it down". and such a dead horse is your recommended 20-20-20 policy. if we in the european union think about this saying, we do the opposite of what the indians do. we're putting together teams to improve the performance of a dead horse, to improve the nutrition of a dead horse, or to possibly improve the image of a dead horse. think, mr. chairman, if it's not time to get off your dead horse.
the achilles' heel of the korea agreement is the difficult to control and yet expected damage to european industry through the reimbursement or exemption of duties on products imported into korea mainly from china. this is an unprecedented opening of the market, which has no reciprocal benefit for the eu. that's why i'm not in favor of a deal like that with korea. the report of the committee on international trade attempts to draw attention to the problems and to facilitate the implementation of any safeguard measures. the agreement should be amended in this article before we ratify it. otherwise we are cutting off our own branch of the european industry, not just the automobile industry. i welcome the postponement of the vote, it's a good way to go.
i supported the report on fair farmers' incomes and i am glad that the european parliament's committee on agriculture and rural development has been looking at the malfunctioning of the food chain, i.e. the discrepancies between low farm purchase prices and high consumer prices. but let me also reiterate here that there is an unacceptable discrimination and unequal competition for farmers from the eu 12 because of the higher subsidies for the eu 15. for example, milk, vegetables, eggs and other commodities from czech farmers are difficult to reach for czech customers, as multinational chains prefer better subsidised and therefore cheaper goods from eu-15 countries. that has to change as soon as possible.
i agree with the author of the report that ethnic minority women in the union suffer from various forms of discrimination and that it is our duty to seek to improve their conditions, particularly in terms of access to education, the labour market, social security and healthcare. however, the report also requires the commission to collect statistics broken down by ethnicity. but the charter of fundamental rights and freedoms specifically prohibits the collection of data disaggregated by race. let me ask you two questions: is the commission able to provide such analyses without breaching international law, or is there an attempt to amend the relevant article of the charter to allow such analyses to be made? is the author and this entire house aware of this conflict situation? i still supported the report.
i voted against this report because it passed a motion that states should take into account the specific situation of older lesbian, bisexual and transgender women. does this mean that they should have a higher status than other older women? i emphasized in the discussion yesterday that the reason women are at higher risk of poverty in retirement is because they have been caring for a family, raising children, and therefore their lifetime earnings are lower than men's earnings on average, and that this needs to change. but it has nothing to do with their sexual orientation.
the positive aspect of this report is that it repeatedly recognises the growing role of national parliaments and emphasises the principle of subsidiarity. it also contains various proposals such as increasing transparency, publishing information, facilitating accreditation of journalists, etc., which are certainly worth supporting. on the other hand, it contains arguments that are more than debatable. the report proposes to set up a group of correspondents whose task should be to cover european union issues in a more educational way. it also requires that each member state have a dedicated eu affairs office whose task will be to explain the implications of european union policies. it also proposes to increase the budget lines for parliament's information offices. i think that better effect can be achieved by greater efficiency and new methods, not by increasing the budget. that's why i rejected this report.
in writing. − i supported the ep and council regulation on the free movement of workers within the eu, as amended to take account of the ep's legal objections. adoption at first reading will speed up the entry into force of this regulation, which is important. however, i must note that some member states continue to place various obstacles to the free movement of people within the eu, at different levels and under different pretexts, in breach of the tfeu. i want to draw attention to the current unjustified harassment of czech drivers by the german border police. yesterday's working meeting between the two countries' top police officials did little to resolve the issue and ended in a verbal altercation that has been picked up by the media. i ask the commission to start looking at this in all seriousness.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, allow me to use this opportunity to comment on the fact that the commission has forgotten in its draft regulation that, under the treaty of lisbon, it cannot bypass the european parliament in the matter of cooperation in the delegation of powers for the adoption of acts of this nature. it's as if she's forgotten that the lisbon treaty is already in force. i thank the rapporteurs for adding the necessary articles so that the commission must inform the ep in advance and take our views into account before adopting delegated acts in the customs area. i trust that it will serve the commission well in other cases.
in writing. − i support the european commission's initiative to link business registers. i believe that the possibility of cross-border information sharing is a way not only to revitalise the internal market but, above all, to increase its credibility and to strengthen the legal certainty of all actors operating in the internal market. the significant impact on the reduction of the administrative burden on entrepreneurs cannot be overlooked either. according to the anti-administrative burden group led by edmund stoiber, enabling cross-border electronic access to business information would save up to eur 160 million in administrative costs for businesses each year. however, i would like to ask the commission to ensure that the solution is fully interoperable and technically neutral when implementing this plan. i would not like us to save eur 160 million in administrative burden on the one hand and then spend a comparable amount on the implementation and technical solution of the interconnection of business registers on the other.
in writing. − i abstained on the report on developing the job creation potential of the new sustainable economy because i do not share the rapporteur's view that a 90% reduction in emissions over 40 years will solve unemployment. this certainly encourages the introduction of new technologies, but it does not necessarily mean jobs for european citizens. we are part of a liberalised global market which offers businesses, municipalities and consumers new technologies, also from asia, which compete with those in europe, particularly at low prices. that doesn't mean we shouldn't raise the bar for environmental improvement, just don't live under the illusion that it's the cure for unemployment.
in writing. the eea-switzerland report: obstacles to the full implementation of the internal market was supported by me mainly because it draws attention to and encourages the european commission to take a number of steps to facilitate and deepen economic cooperation between the european union and switzerland. in particular, the report rightly points to the unnecessarily complex system of 120 bilateral agreements in various economic sectors between switzerland and the eu. the effort to simplify and approximate legislation as much as possible is justified, in particular as regards the removal of barriers to access to the swiss market for eu companies and vice versa. the report points, for example, to a completely unnecessary legal requirement for companies entering the swiss market concerning the lodging of a financial guarantee. in my view, this is an unnecessary obstacle which should be removed and which the report rightly points out.
in writing. − i voted for the report on fair incomes for farmers: better functioning of the food supply chain in europe, because i believe that this issue needs to be given increased attention within the eu. but i have one objection to the report. i think it is a mistake that it does not pay more attention to the unequal bargaining power of farmers compared to processors. while the food industry is integrated and economically strong, farmers are often fragmented and are forced to play short-term in trade negotiations. however, the commission intends to promote a deeper integration of the food industry within the internal market as part of its measures to strengthen competition in the european food chain. the report is virtually silent on how to make farmers equal partners in the processing industry and the supply chain. i was also interested in the call to stop the development of national and regional systems of designation of origin, which should be replaced in the quality policy by a new framework for geographical indications. personally, i see regional labelling schemes as a possible appropriate complement to the european labelling system, provided that they do not restrict the free movement of goods within the internal market.
in writing. − i welcome this report as an initiative which finally opens up the question of the real situation of the functioning of the food chain in europe. farmers face constantly falling farm prices in most production sectors, while consumers pay either the same or even higher final price for the final products in the retail network. strengthening the bargaining power of producers and consumers is undoubtedly desirable, as is the elimination of asymmetries in bargaining power between the different links in the food chain in general. this topic should also be part of the discussions on the new cap. i voted to accept this report.
in writing. much has been said about the unequal status of women in society. women are still discriminated against in working life by lower financial remuneration for the same work and are often forced by circumstances to interrupt their careers or to choose lower-paid jobs close to the family home. first, because of childbirth/caring for a child, then for an aging parent or a sick family member. in most cases, these are women who sacrifice caring for their family/children at the expense of their work and career. it's a stereotypical expectation of society, i must say. the result is financial dependence on the partner, lower or even no social/pension security for old age. for these reasons, older women are much more vulnerable than men and are the most vulnerable group in society in terms of poverty. added to this is the fact that women often care for their parents and grandchildren in their old age, and this care is free of charge, with women spending all their income or savings on it. the potential of older people is not being exploited. the social life-style, where young and old live separately, also contributes to this. in the past, large families had their own roles and functions, and even the oldest members were not excluded and condemned to live in poverty. i support the report by mrs pietikäinen and will vote in favour of its adoption.
the european council in strasbourg on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation of the unemployed in the european union. unemployment is at its highest since the introduction of the euro in 1999, at 10.1%. more than 23 million people are unemployed, 16 million of them in the euro area. we all agree on the urgency of this problem, but the report does not show a way out of the crisis. we do not believe that the introduction of the right to full employment is in itself a solution. we set artificial goals, even though we don't know how to achieve them. what is the point of administratively setting the percentage of participation in the labour market, increasing the employment rate of women or youth and reducing the proportion of students who leave school early, if we do not know who and how the achievement of these goals will be measured and compared. we believe that achieving a deep and effective single market is a key tool for ensuring the overall macroeconomic performance of the european union and that a flexible labour market is the best environment for new employment.
first of all, i appreciate this debate being taking place. as practice in many eu countries shows, although freedom of speech and of the press is formally declared everywhere, in reality it is fragile. power tends to exert its influence in this regard. in the czech republic, we have a so-called gag law that prevents the publication of information that is unpleasant to politicians and threatens journalists with extreme penalties, including imprisonment. no country in the european union has a similar pseudo-democratic system, although the trends in many of them are similar. moreover, freedom of expression is strongly influenced by the economic situation of media actors. whoever has the money has the power and also the influence in the media. the views of the underprivileged are often deliberately ignored. i'm not an idealist, one discussion won't fix everything, but we should come back to this more often to be closer to truly democratic conditions.
i do not think there is a single member of the european parliament who would want to question the necessity of freedom of speech and of the press. after all, these are fundamental rights, codified in the eu charter of fundamental rights (article 11). i would also like to recall that last year the european charter for freedom of the press, which was welcomed by the commission, was adopted unofficially, and in which journalists demand that the governments of european countries respect the principles protecting them and their work - from the prohibition of censorship to the personal protection of journalists. but i think that's only one side of the problem. the other is the ever-growing brutal power of the media, the massive failure of journalists to uphold basic ethical standards and to be accountable for free speech, and their pseudo-independence given by the economic and political interests of media owners. almost all the press in the czech republic, from the regional to the central, is divided among foreign corporations, which unscrupulously interfere in the political events of the country through their media. does anyone competent in the eu care? i doubt that. we'll keep on coining fancy slogans and phrases, but reality will take its course.
in writing. i welcome and support the jeggle report on the european parliament and council directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes, because the compromise reached is a step forward from the current situation. however, i am also deeply concerned that the final proposal has failed to ensure that all invertebrates are included in the scope of this directive. the ep called for the inclusion of at least those invertebrate species for which there is scientific evidence of the potential to experience pain, suffering, fear and lasting harm. nor is this requirement included in the proposal. while i recognise the need to use animals for scientific research, i believe that the directive should have gone further and covered all animals without exception. let's just say that the level of cognition is still expanding across the spectrum of animals, where official science is willing to recognize their ability to feel pain, suffering and fear and to suffer permanent damage. so we can extrapolate that the ability to feel fear, suffering and pain is widespread throughout the animal kingdom. recognition of this fact is more a matter of moral judgment than of science. the compromise we have unfortunately made shows that european culture has not yet completely abandoned the cartesian concept of the animal as a thing and that we still have a long way to go in this direction.
in writing. − i support measures to prevent or alleviate the suffering of animals when they are used for scientific purposes. methods other than animal testing should be preferred for the verification of the effects of new medicinal products and for scientific studies. but that does not mean that in the interests of animal welfare we should accept the use of human embryos as an alternative method. i regret that the council has omitted such a restrictive clause on alternative methods from the european parliament's proposal adopted at first reading. decision-making in these ethically sensitive areas falls within the competence of the member states and regulation at national level varies widely from one country to another. in the czech republic, the use of embryonic stem cells from embryos for scientific purposes has been permitted by law since 2006, despite the fact that successful results in biomedicine have made it possible to conduct research using stem cells from non-genetic tissues rather than from embryos. the fact that we did not vote on the council's draft directive at the second reading today in strasbourg, or adopt any resolution, means that the council's proposal will take effect after its publication in the official journal, regardless of the position of the majority of members.
this question to the commission from the members of the left is, as they say, out of the question, meaningless. and not just because the bill that the knesset will vote on in a month's time has a different form today. i believe that a democratically functioning country like israel has the right to pass laws as long as they don't conflict with international law, and the original government proposal clearly didn't. i want to remind you that in my country, nonprofits are required to disclose their sources of funding, including foreign and private sponsors. the union co-finances ngos all over the world, and we are not always sure what the support ends up doing. on the contrary, we should appreciate that the israeli government and parliament are seeking greater transparency of the financial flows that flow to political movements and politically active ngos from abroad. rather, we should be concerned that some of them, using these resources from foreign terrorist organizations, are undermining peace efforts and worsening the security of israeli citizens. i'm sorry that some of my colleagues on the left here are bothered by the good relations between israel and the union. but our priority is the peaceful coexistence of israel and a future palestinian state, not the spreading of prejudice and slander. but what bothers me is that the union is not invited to these intergovernmental meetings, and i ask the commission: can the commission change this situation?
non-profit organisations are a legitimate and necessary part of civil society in a standard democratic country. however, the requirement for transparency of their financing, both from public and private sources, is equally legitimate. the question to be discussed is therefore the extent to which and the specific legal framework to be used to ensure such transparency. it would therefore be good to approach this matter objectively, without prejudice and with a little confidence in the work of our democratically elected colleagues in the israeli knesset.
the drying up of the jordan river is undoubtedly a serious regional environmental problem, affecting the ecosystem of the whole area and the lives and health of its inhabitants. long-term over-pumping and pollution, but also drought, are the main reasons for the situation as well as a weak ability to ensure effective water management. as some colleagues have already said, for drinking water supply, but especially for extensive agricultural plantations or industry, over 90% of the river's flow is drawn. the annual flow has decreased from historically about 1.3 billion to about 100 million cubic meters. of course, the political conflict is exacerbating the environmental problem. but water need not be the only source of conflict. it can also be an example of positive, practical cooperation in the region and can play a key role in building mutual trust. peace based on everyday cooperation and shared values has a better chance than any of the round table solutions.
in writing. the free movement of workers remains a pressing issue in the european union. why should the commission consider market opening measures in the case of bulgaria and romania in particular? in the current economic crisis, it is certainly much easier to find excuses to justify the opening of the labour market. it is a well-known fact that all the so-called new eu member countries are second-class citizens. the question to the commission should be: what is the commission going to do about it? in fact, the selection of staff to provide technical support to the eu institutions still requires knowledge of two of the 11 original 15 languages. or has that rule already changed? if we look at our membership card, ladies and gentlemen, we see that more than six years after the enlargement of the eu to include the countries of central europe only 11 of the old 15 languages are still spoken. isn't that discrimination against the new member countries too? is this also in line with the lisbon treaty and the eu charter of fundamental rights?
thank you, reporter, for a well-crafted report. let me make a few remarks about it. the commission has taken a number of steps in recent years to improve the regulatory environment, and i personally support it very much. even though i can see with my own eyes that she doesn't always do as well as i'd like. sometimes i get the feeling in this venerable institution that the right hemisphere sees the content of better regulation diametrically differently from the left hemisphere. i would also like to highlight the results of the work of the high level group of independent stakeholders for reducing administrative burdens, led by edmund stoiber. i have to disagree with the report on one thing. the commission has also been asked to increase the number of staff on its impact assessment committee. in my view, we should rather consider how to help the commission in this matter. for example, within the current capacities, we would establish a committee here in the european parliament on the reduction of red tape, which would assess impact assessments as part of its work, as well as the reduction of the administrative burden of the proposed legislation. the operation of such a committee would make the commission's difficult task easier without affecting parliament's operational expenditure.
mr batten, it was a point of order, information to the house.
i think you have made your point. everybody knows and noticed that you say ‘no’ to the european union.
colleagues, before you go i still have two announcements to make. the text is in czech so i will read it in czech.
written declaration no 0012/2010 by françoise castex, zuzana roithová, alexander alvaro, stavros lambrinidis, on the lack of transparency in the process and possibly the problematic content of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta), was signed by a majority of all members of parliament. the written declaration shall be sent to all the addressees in accordance with rule 123 of the rules of procedure and published in the texts adopted at this meeting. the names of the signatories will be published in the minutes. written declaration no 0020/2010 by marc tarabella, barbara matera, marije cornelissen, ilda figueiredo and antonyia parvanova on the european year against violence against women was signed by a majority of all members of parliament. the written declaration shall also be sent to all the addressees in accordance with rule 123 of the rules of procedure and published in the texts adopted at this part-session. the names of the signatories shall be entered in the minutes.
colleagues, we now come to the explanations of vote. those of you who do not wish to explain their vote please leave the house quietly so that we can proceed with the explanations.
in writing. the report by ms de oedenberg focuses in particular on the evaluation of the 15th and 16th ec reports on better law-making covering 2007 and 2008, the third strategic review on better law-making of january 2009 and the action programme on reducing administrative burdens of october 2009. the rapporteur seeks to promote more strongly subsidiarity and proportionality as fundamental requirements of european law, in order to allow member states to exercise their own legislative powers and to ensure that citizens' expectations are met. however, further efforts are needed in the area of impact assessment and administrative burden reduction. the report points out that up to 32% of the administrative burden in the eu is caused by member states applying european rules excessively rigorously, going beyond the requirements of european legislation. in the new member states, we are faced with this problem very often. i welcome the fact that the new possibilities of the european citizens' initiative are being highlighted. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty gives eu citizens the opportunity to actively participate in the process of european legislation. the report as a whole is a contribution to our legislative work and i agree to its adoption.
in writing. - the return of more than 8 000 roma from france to their countries of origin, in particular romania and bulgaria, is certainly a subject worthy of the ep's attention. i'm not a fan of rash judgment and intimidation, but i prefer the path of thorough investigation and evaluation. let us have a dialogue with the french side, let us give the french government a chance to explain and clarify everything, and only then will we be able to conclude whether this is really a violation of human rights or whether the procedure in relation to the roma is taking place within the limits of european law. i expect the european commission to take an active approach in the spirit of its role as guardian of the treaties. it would be a mistake for her to choose a strategy of concealment and trying to keep the problem quiet for the sake of convenience. i would also like to add that i consider the only way forward in tackling the roma problem to be the adoption of a single european strategy covering all the countries concerned and having a direct link to the european social fund or other financial instruments of the eu budget. but first, we must recognise that the roma problem is a european problem.
in writing. the situation in the middle east has been complicated for years, politically, economically and environmentally. the grass has never been abundant, the flow is very unstable, the forests have given way to agricultural land since ancient times, and the grassland annually destroys bushes, trees, and other greenery. the jordan river has little more polluted water flowing through it, and the dead sea is becoming more and more dry. technically, ensuring sufficient flow of water in the river is a major problem that can only be solved in a peaceful political climate. the european union has long been involved in a number of projects whose main objective is to promote the peaceful development of the whole region. support for the key programme of ensuring the restoration of a rational water regime in the middle and lower jordan river is therefore also desirable. as local governments in many parts of the sahel and asia are facing similar problems, not only the commission's response but also concrete steps to remedy the situation will be a valuable inspiration for tackling similar problems in many other places. i support the adoption of the joint motion for a resolution.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at midday tomorrow (tuesday, 21 september 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by metin kazak, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on trade and economic relations with turkey(a7-0238/2010).
the loss of biodiversity continues at an extreme rate. the extinction rate of some species is 50 to 1,000 times higher than the natural rate. stopping the loss of biodiversity must be a priority for us, firstly for ethical reasons, because we should preserve a sustainable planet for future generations, secondly for ecological reasons, because the scale of interaction between species of living organisms is essential to ensure the habitability of our planet, and thirdly for economic reasons, because nature and its original diversity provide us with the basic resources for life - food, water, fuel, fibre - and also restore the fertility of the soil or provide land for plant breeding. maintaining biodiversity is also important for us because of the reduction of the manifestations and consequences of climate change, as land and marine systems absorb co2 and are the only natural mechanism for capturing and storing carbon. environmental directives allow the adaptation of implementing measures to the local situation. however, care must be taken to ensure that differences between member states are not significant in the protection of biodiversity. it is necessary to establish the principles of protection which must be respected at all times. it is also necessary to extend the protection of biodiversity to the fisheries sector. farmers have a special role to play in the effective conservation of biodiversity. as the population grows, it will be necessary to increase production, but at the same time to promote rural life and to maintain biodiversity in order to balance these three aspects.
in writing. i welcome the report presented and believe it indicates some steps in the right direction. on the other hand, i lack a much more critical approach to the activities already undertaken in this direction and a more ambitious attitude towards the future. it's time to face the facts. the european union has failed to meet its 2010 target for halting biodiversity loss. both european legislation and the general approach to this issue are still moving at the level of species protection. progress is needed to protect ecosystems, including the planetary ecosystem. it is necessary to realize, without religious or ideological bias, that man is part of the planetary biosphere and that the human species cannot exist without the planetary ecosystem. the pressing issues of our time, including greenhouse gas emissions, land degradation, the threat to marine ecosystems, food shortages and more, can be summed up in a single common denominator: population pressure on homo sapiens. if we don't look at the whole problem from the perspective of the ecology of our own species, going far beyond the social, economic and political realms, then by 2020 we will find that the targets for halting biodiversity loss have once again not been met, and worse, we will find that the planetary ecosystem is once again on a path to a state that is intolerable for the continued existence of our own species.
i am very pleased that the rapporteur is also drawing on my report on consumer confidence in the digital environment, which was adopted by the european parliament in the last term. although online trade is growing by 50%, its potential is being underutilized in the european economy. in particular, up to a third of online retailers or distributors reject customers from other member states. this is due to the fact that some companies have tried to create artificially separate national markets in order to apply different prices, and at the same time to the persistence of legislative obstacles that have not yet been overcome at european level. i appreciate that in today's report my colleague also makes suggestions for increasing the safety of children and young people on the internet and draws attention to the main dangers, whether it is pornography, the anonymous purchase of tobacco, alcohol, gambling or communication with unknown people via so-called social networks. i believe that the commission will be more successful, at least in protecting children from harmful content on the internet, than it has been in promoting e-commerce.
as rapporteur for the imco opinion, i am disappointed that mrs gallo did not follow our recommendations in the text. however, the european commission, in its reply to my question, confirmed that it would take account of the proposal to create european protection for certification marks as early as next year. thank you, commissioner. we must fight counterfeiting, especially from asia, by all available means, as the gallo report very rightly suggests. i regret, however, that the part on combating the downloading of copyrighted works has created such an insurmountable gap between members. the mass sharing of copyrighted works on the internet needs to be regulated, but with balanced measures, not by criminalizing high school students. copyright law is ill-conceived in europe and does not offer modern rules for the promotion of authors and the wide use of their works by the public. rather, it favours the interests of copyright holders and collective management organisations over those of authors and users of works. i regret that this report does not have the ambition to formulate the much-needed balance for copyright in the digital world.
in writing. respect for intellectual property rights in the internal market (marielle gallo, a7 0169/2010) the report, while containing a number of valuable ideas and conclusions, is unfortunately a typical manifestation of the lack of conception, or even helplessness, of intellectual property rights at community level. however, even more significant is the commission communication on enhancing the enforcement of intellectual property rights in the internal market (com (2009) 467), to which the report refers, among other things. i find it particularly alarming that the commission has so far failed to carry out an in-depth analysis of the impact of directive 2004/48/ec of 29 april 2004 on the field of intellectual property rights. the continued absence of a community patent is a very significant obstacle to the establishment of an effective community system for the protection of intellectual property rights. the last point concerns the proposal to set up a european centre for the detection of counterfeiting and piracy. no need for more bureaucracy, more bureaucracy, more expense. the commission has sufficient capacity to handle the tasks to be entrusted to the centre itself.
mr president, commissioner, in january 2009 europe was shaken by the problem of limited gas supplies from russia, we call it the january 2009 gas crisis. but we should be very careful, because this situation was far from being a european union-wide problem, and our analyses suggest that it was more of a structural problem. we should not be unreasonably drawn into too much regulation, because an increase in the number of large or excessive supply orders or regulations in response to supply would mean an increase in the price of gas and could of course complicate the situation for end-users and also worsen competitiveness. i think the report has managed to find a very reasonable outcome to preserve the flexibility of the whole solution. i also very much like commissioner oettinger's view that it is necessary to evaluate the impact of the report on gas prices over time and to assess the overall impact of the measures taken on the gas market.
mr president, last year's energy crisis was unpleasant, but it did not show a structural market failure. therefore, any excessive regulation of the gas market or the gas supply market is not necessary, as it would ultimately mean an increase in the price of gas for the final customer. let me make three comments in this context: firstly, the definition of the so-called protected customers must be very careful to avoid a definition that is too broad, which would certainly lead to an increase in the final price of gas. secondly, we need to be very careful in defining the mandatory period for which suppliers must provide gas, not the 60 days, but perhaps only the 30 days, because that would of course mean building huge storage tanks, which would be reflected in the final price of gas. thirdly, it is obvious that a precise definition of the so-called coldest period is needed.
for the s&d group. madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the european union and china are facing many common global challenges and problems: overcoming the global economic crisis, climate change, terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, uncontrolled migration and many other challenges. none of these challenges, none of these problems, we can solve by ourselves. cooperation is needed, partnerships are needed to find common solutions, and in this area the european union and china are natural strategic partners. we therefore expect that at the forthcoming summit both partners will recognise their global responsibilities and propose concrete actions and concrete solutions to at least some of these challenges and problems. today, as another summit is taking place in new york under the auspices of the united nations, the global poverty summit, i think it is worth recalling that the european union and china are particularly suitable partners in tackling this problem as well. meps also expect that at the eu-china summit on 6 october, european representatives will make clear their views on certain bilateral issues: the development and promotion of mutual trade, access of european goods and services to the chinese market, including, of course, public procurement, the protection of intellectual property, the protection of labour standards, human rights, the development of tourism, the development of student, youth and other exchanges.
for the group gue/ngl ladies and gentlemen, for more than 30 years, foreign observers have been amazed by the pace of growth of the chinese economy. a developing country where the vast majority of the population lived off subsistence farming is now catching up with the advanced nations of the world at a pace of economic development never seen elsewhere in a long time. some statesmen and political commentators forget that this is still a developing country, where about 70% of the population today feed their families with organic farming, so if they are born, the family is fed, if not, it means hunger. the current development stage of china can therefore be compared to the second half of the 19th century in the industrialized countries in this respect. only if we keep this fundamental point in mind will we be able to reach mutually beneficial agreements at the summit without embarking on the thin ice of anticipating history, let alone pushing the partners to make a big leap in some of the areas under discussion. in such a case, the chinese side will be very unwilling to yield to the pressure from the eu. anyone who knows the results of the great leap forward in the 1960's will understand.
commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, a correct relationship between the eu and china, based on mutual respect, must be able to perceive and understand the differences between our two cultures. the key is a sincere and unbiased effort to get to know each other. personal experience and human capacity building, including the removal of language barriers, are essential prerequisites. i therefore welcomed the joint declaration of the 12th eu-china summit in nanjing in november 2009 which talks about strengthening cooperation in education, promoting talent, joint research, promoting language teaching, including a commitment to make maximum efforts to substantially increase student exchanges. as i am not aware of whether and what concrete progress has been made in this regard, both at eu and member state level, i would like to reiterate my call for a fundamental strengthening of this area as a necessary condition for effective intercultural dialogue.
madam president, we know that the existing community system for investigating accidents in civil aviation is not entirely optimal. over the last few years, there has been a significant increase in traffic, the enlargement of the european union and more sophisticated investigative methods. this regulation therefore aims to respond to the situation and to ensure more effective prevention of aviation accidents. the proposed regulation allows the involvement of easa, which has existed since 2002 and is responsible for the certification of aircraft, in the accident investigation process, the creation of a european network of civil aviation safety investigation authorities, and proposes changes to the nature and scope of the transmission of investigation reports, including ensuring the requirement for the availability of passenger lists on board a crashed aircraft. the text under discussion is the result of a compromise between parliament and the council. the czech republic has agreed to the compromise in the council. the report is technical in nature and will contribute to greater aviation safety. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. − while the internet is the fastest growing retail channel today and the number of people shopping online is increasing every year, the number of crossborder transactions between member states is stagnating. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry suffered material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. in the case of increasing crossborder sales of goods via electronic commerce, i believe that one of the important incentives can be the complete harmonisation of consumer law, i.e. the elimination of national exemptions, combined with a liberal concept of consumer protection. but i see a big problem in the area of restricting access to online services based on ip addresses of some countries. there are no legislative barriers in this area in principle, and yet the electronic internal market is limited in this segment. i believe that in this case the commission should use all its enforcement tools to act against the artificial creation of barriers in the internal market, which is the blocking of ip addresses. the report also talks about the 2020 targets for broadband access. i personally do not like such a proclamation, and in a sector which is developing dynamically, it is very difficult to predict in which direction it will develop in the next ten years. despite this criticism, i consider the report to be balanced and have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. the report on trade relations with turkey highlights the greatest successes and difficulties of eu-turkey trade. since 1963, turkey has had an association agreement with the eu, leading to the creation of a customs union in 1996. the establishment of the customs union has contributed to a high degree of market integration and turkey has become one of the eu's key trading partners. for example, in 2009, turkey exported eur 33.6 billion worth of goods to the eu and imported eur 40.4 billion worth of goods from the eu. despite these achievements, the possible extension of the customs union to include services and public procurement, as well as the removal of current problems such as turkey's insufficient enforcement of intellectual property rights, could contribute to the further development of eu-turkey trade and economic relations. according to the report, a comprehensive reform of the customs union is hampered by turkey's eu accession bid. it is therefore necessary to consider which of the above-mentioned options for integration and cooperation would be mutually beneficial and more useful to the economies in times of economic crisis. the rapporteur has, in my view, addressed all the relevant issues and the report as a whole is not one-sided. for these reasons, i shall be voting in favour of it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done in preparing this report and all of you for the care with which you have dealt with this work. the pharmacovigilance directive has not been significantly amended for almost a decade and therefore let me point out that a comprehensive revision of this directive is more than necessary. i fully support the idea of the patient being better informed and at the same time being a full partner for the doctor. the availability of information is undoubtedly a key factor in this change, and this information includes, of course, information on medicines, their effects and side effects. the consolidation of information on the effects of medicines in one place, as well as a good and functioning exchange of information between national information systems on this matter, will lead to improved awareness, increase citizens' confidence in medicines and can prevent fatal consequences, such as rapid withdrawal of a dangerous product. this measure will therefore help to improve health, the quality and safety of healthcare.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a serious issue concerning medicines. medicines save lives, but they can also do significant harm. as mentioned here, adverse drug reactions have been shown to be the fifth leading cause of death in hospital patients. therefore, a robust, transparent and proactive pharmacovigilance system is essential to ensure patient safety. i am convinced that, in the course of the negotiation of these legislative proposals, we have together succeeded in achieving a significant improvement in the quality of the text and in improving patient protection. i very much welcome the direct reporting system, which allows patients across europe to report adverse reactions directly. this system allows for earlier detection of side effects, and patients reporting those that they might have difficulty discussing with their doctor, such as psychological or sexual side effects. patients can submit information both online and by other means, which is good for people who do not use computers. we have also succeeded in promoting patients' right to information by improving access to information, by creating a european web portal and by opening up the european pharmacovigilance database. particular attention has also been paid to the protection of personal data in this area. we have achieved good results, but there is much to improve: increasing the transparency of the decision-making of the competent authorities, providing the necessary resources for the competent authorities to operate, ensuring their independence and a sustainable budget, and, last but not least, adopting strict requirements on conflicts of interest to ensure that decisions taken in the area of patient safety are not influenced by commercial interests. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent cooperation.
in writing. pharmacovigilance is an important part of the patient protection system that reduces the risks and increases the benefits of medicinal products. in particular, the assessment and monitoring of the safety of medicinal products in the first years of their use is of great importance. the pre-marketing safety information from pre-clinical and clinical studies is the main focus of the marketing authorisation process. however, many of the possible harmful effects of a drug can only be detected after it has been introduced into medical practice. in this context, patients, along with healthcare professionals, also play an important role in detecting or suspecting adverse reactions. however, an expert evaluation of this information is equally important, especially in view of the often uncertain causal relationship between the adverse reaction and the administration of the medicinal product. i therefore support a new patient empowerment element with active involvement in the adverse event reporting process and a quality assessment system. in the czech republic, patients already have this option on the website of the state institute for drug control, which i consider to be an example of good practice for those member states where this option does not yet exist.
it is important to remember that biocides, however unavoidable their use, are nothing but the poisons we come into contact with on a daily basis. and as such, they simply pose a danger to human health and a burden to the environment. it is therefore logical that the highest level of protection of human, animal and natural health should be respected. excessive flexibility poses a significant danger, because the risk is not only in these substances, but also in the ways in which they are used and the misuse of the quantities in which they enter the food chain. i would consider a total ban on extremely dangerous biocidal products, including mutagenic and carcinogenic substances and substances toxic to reproduction, to be a major achievement. the new legislation is and should be ambitious and i think it is within echa's power to start with a single european authorisation for biocidal products as early as 2015, rather than 2017.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament is elected by the people of the member states of the european union and must share their destiny. if the economies of most european countries are in crisis and if people are forced to tighten their belts, this parliament cannot go the other way and demand an increase in its own spending and that of the european union as a whole. such a policy diminishes the european parliament's credibility and authority in the eyes of our voters. the böge report, which we are discussing today, seeks to give the european union more money, with reference to the treaty of lisbon and other treaties. i personally can't agree with that. yes, the lisbon treaty gives the european union new powers and new responsibilities, but the european union can and must seize these powers in such a way that the overall amount of money it redistributes is preserved. i am convinced that the management of the european union until 2013 must be based on the approved budgetary perspective and, if any adjustments are necessary, only those that reflect the state of the european economy and the economic crisis in which we find ourselves.
it is more than two years since we have been discussing the problems of the less-favoured regions, and in particular the outermost regions, in the european parliament. after reading my original talk with some delay, i had to conclude that it was still very current and that i would not change a word. unfortunately, on behalf of the group of european conservatives and reformists, i have to say that we will not support the joint motion for a resolution for four reasons. first, we are against the idea of social engineering and excessive government intervention. it is important to remember that some problems of island, mountain or sparsely populated regions cannot be solved. these are problems sui genesis, which have their own geographical and structural specificities, and we will not change them. secondly, we do not agree with the view that all island, mountain or sparsely populated regions are a homogeneous group with common characteristics. what does the french mountain resort of chamonix have in common with the greek island of lefkada or the finnish area above the arctic circle around rovaniemi? thirdly, the border regions are completely forgotten in the proposal and in the debate itself. i do not think i need to remind anyone that, under article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, cohesion policy should pay particular attention to rural areas, areas affected by industrial transition and regions which are seriously and permanently disadvantaged as a result of natural or demographic conditions. while an island will always be an island and a mountain will always be a mountain, borders, at least administrative ones, can disappear. a greater focus on border regions would therefore be appropriate. fourthly, we consider it premature to discuss new concrete legislative measures, regional development programmes and funding for these areas. it is clear that the debate on european funds and their use after 2013 is starting to intensify. it is clear that the individual states, regions and territories will seek to draw attention to their problems and needs, which they would like to finance from european sources, in the context of this debate. it is common ground that the less-favoured regions deserve different conditions in terms of the level of co-financing, the rules on state aid and the regulation of the internal market through the application of customs legislation. this should also be taken into account in the european framework, which must allow the specific nature of these regions to be preserved and their constraints to be mitigated. but the question is how effective the complex european programmes are in this case. rather, european structural policy should be guided by the idea that funds must be directed primarily to the poorest regions, where they are most needed. whether it is an island, a mountain, or an uncultivated area, the bible says that "the earth is the lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and those who dwell in it".
i very much welcome the commission's modernisation of the community trade mark regulation within a year, by simplifying and making it cheaper to register trade marks, i.e. protection for trade marks, company names, names of their products, etc. it's another tool to fight counterfeiters. i personally appreciate the commission's commitment to incorporate into the regulation the proposal for the creation of european protection for certification marks, which i have been working on for some years. today, it is possible to abuse quality and safety certification marks with impunity. for example, in third countries, traders affix our ce marking to goods for the national market which obviously do not meet our standards at all. protection of certification marks is desirable. we will guarantee consumers the quality of products and we will not only protect businesses against unfair competition, but we will also open up the possibility of extending our standards to other businesses through licensing. and this protection is possible without additional costs and institutions, because it is only possible to extend the registration powers of the office for harmonisation in the internal market in alicante to certification marks.
ladies and gentlemen, as a doctor, let me stress the importance of the new regulation voted today, which will allow the sharing of information on the side effects of medicines throughout the european union. although healthcare is not an eu competence, member states have managed to agree on the need and details of how to create a common database to store and thus share and evaluate information on clinical experience with eu medicines. this is great news for european patients and it also demonstrates the benefits of deeper integration of european countries. i appreciate the work of the envi rapporteurs, because they have reached agreement on all the points of dispute, and i am particularly pleased that they have improved the commission's proposal in terms of more careful protection of personal data.
mr president, i am pleased that we have succeeded in completing the creation of the conditions for effective supervision of the financial markets, whose failure was a major factor in the onset of the economic crisis. i welcome the fact that europe is building the tools with which it will hopefully be able to prevent crises in the future, and that is why i supported all the reports in the financial supervision package. the aim should be to improve the application of good governance rules, which do not include budgetary excesses or debt accumulation at the expense of future generations. for this reason too, i reject the proposal by commission president barroso to write off european bonds, which he mentioned in his recent speech to the european parliament when he spoke of rewards for states that respect the rules of good governance. the consideration was in the form of european bonds.
mr president, the report by mrs gallo has divided parliament into three camps. no report has offered the much-needed and balanced regulation of intellectual property. the report by mrs gallo deals with piracy in digital networks unilaterally and omits measures against counterfeiting, which is really ruining our industry, although the opinions of the imco and itre committees suggested practical measures. it also proposes a form of harmonisation of criminal penalties for infringement of intellectual property, without, however, addressing the fact that the professional public understands criminal law as the exclusive domain of the member states. however, i appreciate the report's emphasis on prevention and education campaigns. i appreciate the alde motion for a resolution that deals more carefully with rights and obligations, especially of internet service providers, but it was tabled at the last minute. it is strongly inspired by the epp group's proposal and unfortunately has not brought any innovative ideas to the debate. the motion for a resolution tabled by, among others, mrs castex is more comprehensive and up-to-date with regard to the acta negotiations. i also appreciate the more targeted measures against counterfeit medicines. but i do not agree with the limitation of the mandate of the european centre for the detection of counterfeiting and piracy. that is why i did not endorse any of the three motions for resolutions.
in writing. − the report presented aims to harmonise existing european legislation while adapting it to technical developments. biocidal products and devices are no longer indispensable in our society, as they help to meet high health and hygiene requirements. a number of microorganisms have become resistant to the original products and therefore current biocidal products are increasingly dangerous because of their increased efficacy. i fully support the rapporteur's intention to take account not only of practices on the part of manufacturers but also, and in particular, of consumer and environmental protection. it is necessary to extend the rules on biocidal products to manufacturers outside the eu. it is not acceptable that we demand higher values for consumer and environmental protection from our producers at the cost of rising costs and demand nothing from other non-eu and non-european producers who import these goods into the eu. consumers who buy biocidal products in the eu must be sure that the goods meet the minimum standards, whether they buy them in poland or germany, or whether they originate in the eu or china. the report is clearly worded, calls for concrete and feasible legislative changes and takes account of environmental impact. for these reasons, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − i voted for the reform of financial supervision in the eu, although i have a number of reservations about the solution adopted. the need for regulation has been overridden by the need for a free market environment for banks and the financial sector. the powers of the national and european regulator are very vaguely defined and the boundaries between them are very blurred. this may lead, at best, to legal uncertainty for all financial market players, and, at worst, to an abuse of the powers of the european regulator against which it will be virtually impossible to defend effectively. in the absence of an eu single financial market, the legitimacy of strong transnational supervisory authorities with the power to decide on individual financial market players in the member states is in question. if we in the eu are as obsessed with regulation as we are now with financial markets, we will only have to watch china push us off the global stage. while we blame unfair competition, it has long benefited not only from generous state subsidies, cheap labour and environmental standards, but also from innovation and modern technology. and that should alarm and warn us.
in writing. − i am convinced that the expert group chaired by jacques de larosière has carried out a very good analysis of the causes of the crisis and its solution at european level. however, i have some concerns about the commission's proposed legislative package. i personally see the emergence of a european systemic risk board. in my view, this institution may have some justification. the union needs some kind of strategic body of this kind. i believe, moreover, that the very nature of this institution does not threaten to make it a bureaucratic structure. however, i have a very different view of the european system of financial supervisors. the proposal shows that a robust and complex bureaucratic bridge is being built, for which we are not at the moment certain that its broad competences will not be exercised to the detriment of the competences of the member states. in order to avoid the european system of financial supervisors deviating from its original purpose, its competences must be formulated with sufficient precision to leave no doubt that the day-to-day supervision of financial markets will continue to be in the hands of the member states and their independent national supervisory authorities, while preserving the fiscal responsibility of the individual member states. since the legislative package as a whole does not meet these parameters, i cannot vote for it.
in writing. - the issue of respect for and enforcement of intellectual property rights is a very pressing one, affecting a number of european businesses. it is therefore to be appreciated that the commission has given due attention to this problem in its communication. i have, however, a number of fundamental reservations about the wording of the report proposed by parliament. unlike the report, i share the commission's view that the current framework for civil law enforcement in the eu is effective and harmonised to the extent necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market and that no further legislative action is necessary in this regard. i would strongly caution against calling for the creation of a european legal framework to enable the possibility of taking action against infringers of intellectual property rights. in this respect, i think it is right to respect the instruments of the member states. if france has established its own digital guillotine in this area, i fully respect it. however, i have no wish to extend such a controversial instrument to the european level. i'm also very reluctant to create new institutions like the center for the monitoring of counterfeiting and piracy, and i'm also very reluctant to see the benefits of a multilateral anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) without the involvement of the countries that are the biggest source of intellectual property infringement. for these and other reasons, i voted against the proposed text of the report.
mr president, this year is the year of africa, and we remember here a whole series of countries which, 50 years ago, gained independence from the former colonial powers. but when we look back 50 years later at developments in some of these countries, we see, sadly, little reason for optimism. the same applies to the democratic republic of congo. if it wants to be a partner of the european union and a full member of the international community 50 years after gaining independence from the former belgian colonial power, it must actively work to prevent the atrocities that have been committed there in recent weeks, respect human rights and ensure the rule of law throughout the territory of the democratic republic of the congo. the european union, in cooperation with both the un and the african union, should pay tribute to the victims of the violence in congo. in addition, it will contribute to the disarmament of military groups that have launched attacks against the congolese population from neighbouring countries, rwanda, south sudan and uganda. we should also demonstrate our accessibility and here i call on the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy, baroness ashton, to present a concrete plan of action by the european union in the fight for respect for human rights in the democratic republic of congo at the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in kinshasa in december.
ladies and gentlemen, there was a time when passenger ships entering the united states were welcomed into the harbor. it was around the time my grandfather sailed there in the late 1800s. if i want to visit the united states today, i'll pay some kind of strange fee. this fee is somehow justified, but i suspect it's paying for surveillance on my own person. this suspicion is all the stronger the more vehemently the us negotiators demand the handover of often sensitive data on persons coming from the european union. verbals are not about any framing, checking, or issuing visas. in effect, it is a way of getting into the millions of people being watched without properly protecting the data being transmitted. what happens to this sensitive data? god's judgment is upon you! it's just a common situation between two so-called equal partners. the united states will take action, but it is difficult to predict whether or how the european union will react. the results of these negotiations are generally not satisfactory and, for example, the open skies agreement with the united states is highly unbalanced. i understand that the economic interests of both partners often have a direct bearing on the conclusion or non-conclusion of agreements in various sectors. but i do not understand why the measures in place were not properly consulted beforehand, and i am unlikely to ever understand how these measures benefit the citizens of the european union. i trust that the outcome of the negotiations will not be the introduction of visas or, possibly, questionnaires examining in detail the family status of my ancestors.
the deepwater horizon explosion was certainly a major disaster, a warning to both the united states and europe. but we missed a warning. at the time that the envi committee was discussing the deepwater horizon in the gulf of mexico, there was an oil spill going on from the jebel al-zayt oil rig, which is in egypt, a few dozen kilometers off the coast, and we learned about the fact that there was an oil spill from tourists. we didn't even hear it from the media, and when i asked the commission representative at the envi meeting if he had any information about this small but imminent disaster, or rather oil spill, he didn't. no one had that information. so, in addition to the other topics that my colleagues have been talking about, i would like to mention one more, and that is that you need to have timely and quality information, and that is information that will not be politically distorted, just like the egyptian government distorted the oil spill in jebel al-zayt. a moratorium is one of the possible solutions, in my view, although it must not, of course, prevent and hinder the energy industry from supplying us as we need. but what is needed are common safety standards, because the european union's standards in the north sea are very high, but they no longer apply in the black sea. such a divergent approach is unacceptable and it is necessary to ensure that uniform safety standards protect the entire coastline of europe.
in writing. homo sapiens produces the most waste of any species. industrial pollution, municipal waste, co2 production, noise, light smog, heat pollution and all the other known and unknown waste products of our civilization form a huge ecological footprint. the impact of our species ecological footprint is preventing some other species from continuing to exist within the planetary ecosystem. that's the essence of the decline in biodiversity today. biodiversity is the defining condition for the existence of the planetary ecosystem in the metastable state that we know and that allows the existence of our own civilization. the interdependence and interconnectedness of our existence with other life forms on the planet is neglected, underestimated and downplayed. if biodiversity declines, the buffering capacity of the planetary ecosystem declines. this ecosystem becomes less resilient and more susceptible to change, including tidal changes. at some point, it flips over into another state. but the question is whether this new state will allow the continuation of our civilization, or the continuation of the current number of people on the planet, or even the very existence of our biological species. today, it is no longer about protecting one species or another, or even about protecting any single ecosystem. it's about protecting our own species, our own ecosystem. unfortunately, we are still acting like a cancer patient. we lie to ourselves and fail to take the measures that could save our lives.
in writing. the report presented is fairly precise, analyses the examined issues of the proposed new banking regulation (basel ii) in a comprehensive way and discusses in detail its main points, which are currently being discussed at both practical and academic level. specifically, the five following strands, the introduction of which should contribute to greater financial stability in the banking sector and to reducing the likelihood of another crisis: capital quality (improved capital quality of banks is clearly desirable), stricter liquidity standards (liquidity risk has proven to be significant during the crisis), countercyclical measures (the creation of additional capital in banks at good times should prevent excessive credit growth and the subsequent creation of price bubbles, as in spain), the introduction of leverage ratio (this new indicator should contribute to greater stability of banks, but should include not only accounting items contained in the bank's balance sheet but also off-balance sheet items such as deposits and liabilities in the bank's accounts) and, in particular, a series of measures to increase transparency in the area of derivatives and counterparty transactions, in particular for the emergence of a derivatives trading relationship. in the light of the above, i consider that the report submitted contains a detailed analysis and also relevant recommendations in the area of the proposed banking regulation and therefore recommend the report for approval in the proposed version.
ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, in the debate on future cohesion policy, everyone is defending his own interests first. so it's going to be very difficult to find a meaningful and rational consensus that supports as many actors as possible. the first key issue is, in my view, what funds should be allocated to cohesion policy. i personally believe that the existing resources are more or less sufficient, but cohesion policy should become one of the main spending priorities of the european budget. since the european budget is not inflatable, member states have very sick public finances and cannot afford to send more money to brussels, it is also necessary to be clear about where cuts should be made. in my opinion, these are, for example, direct payments to farmers, money from the globalisation fund or administrative expenditure by the european institutions. the second key question is what we should be funding with european funds. the motion for a resolution on the european social fund talks a lot about fighting poverty, promoting the social model, etc. that's nice, but first of all, our economy needs to thrive, people need to have jobs, businesses need to produce and provide services. european funds should therefore be investment-based rather than consumption-based. they should make it possible to modernise what the state, the region, the community or the family cannot, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. the main objective of cohesion policy must remain to reduce economic disparities between regions and member states. and so the only rational criterion is gdp. i can say on behalf of my group that we are interested in a cohesion policy that is clear, simple, flexible, free of excessive bureaucracy and focused on investment and smart growth.
mr. chairman, i want to thank you for your presentation today and i want to thank you for the rich discussion that followed. it fills me with tremendous optimism. the fact that there is agreement on the need for cohesion policy is undoubtedly good news for everyone, and the fact that there is agreement within this parliament is of course even better. i would like to thank the commission for preparing the facility for drawing up the funds, i have had the opportunity to study the draft new financial regulation, it is certainly a step in the right direction. finally, i would like to point out that cohesion has an absolute and a relative dimension. the absolute is what we all understand in terms of supporting the poorest regions, but the relative, within those individual countries, is equally important. i beg you not to forget him.
in writing. i consider the resolution tabled on the basis of the question for an oral answer to be important in many respects. it is certainly worth noting that the common position presented in the motion for a resolution underlines the call, drawing on the experience of the current programming period, for the structure of cohesion policy for the period after 2013 to be simple, fair and transparent. i consider it crucial to retain gdp as the main criterion for determining eligibility for regional policy aid. however, the addition of other measurable indicators for determining eligibility for regional policy aid may be discussed, provided that their relevance is demonstrated. at the same time, i consider it important to maintain the european social fund as part of the regulation on the general provisions on cohesion policy funding. it should be stressed that this fund should have its own rules. in shaping regional and cohesion policy after 2013, i consider it absolutely essential to coordinate it with the second pillar of the common agricultural policy in the field of rural development, so as to avoid overlapping or even contradicting the objectives set.
in writing. let me make a few comments. those in the know know know that there is a heated debate now about what this policy should look like in the future, sometimes even whether it should exist at all. cohesion policy has its supporters, but also its critics. i would like to recall the basic idea behind the creation of cohesion policy in 1974 - the principle of solidarity between the economically more advanced and the economically weaker. the eu still has considerable disparities and without their closure, the notion of the free movement of services or capital within the eu cannot be realised smoothly. there are a number of expert studies that demonstrate that cohesion policy works in principle and creates the desired added value, so i see critical voices more as a reminder of procedural failures and a call for improvement in the future. we know that the situation has changed since 1974 and that cohesion policy is now an important tool for the development of europe's regions and cities. this is also a strong argument for it to continue and cover the whole of the eu. there is a need for a discussion on the intensity of support in the different regions, which will result from negotiations between the council and parliament. i trust the commission to come up with good proposals. i want to express my belief that, if set in the right way, criticism will be reduced and cohesion policy will defend its existence for all eu citizens.
i voted in favour of the resolution on the future of cohesion policy. i would like to point out that we are already working intensively on this subject, even though the official programme documents are not yet available. we are thus demonstrating our commitment to be a key and indispensable player in the decision-making process on the new rules for the structural funds beyond 2013. i do not agree, however, that we think it necessary for the european social fund to have its own rules. i see the danger of opening up the possibility of excluding the social fund from cohesion policy in order to bring it closer to the richer countries and, on the contrary, to keep it out of reach of the poorer ones. this is not the development i want and cannot be desired by anyone who cares about a strong and effective cohesion policy. i have an understanding of the european social fund's own rules as far as the tasks and thematic definition of its activities are concerned. conversely, the rules on geographical competence, objectives, governance, monitoring and specific mechanisms should remain common.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the future of the european social fund for several reasons. first of all, i appreciate that the european parliament's resolution recognises that the structural funds remain largely the main instrument for financing social policy objectives. at the same time, i support the request to the commission, which stresses the need for coherence with other programmes and the need to promote the coherence of multiannual framework programmes such as daphne, progress, the public health programme and the europe for citizens programme. equally important is the call to the commission to increase the potential of the structural funds by simplifying and improving procedures and flexibility, with an emphasis on the social integration dimension, in order to help member states optimise the performance of social and employment policies and achieve sustainable growth. lastly, i supported this european parliament resolution as it stresses that eu regional policy and eu social policy are interlinked and that for the success of the europe 2020 strategy it is necessary to present a clear framework for achieving the coherence of all european policies and structural funds, as the resolution calls on the commission to do.
the minutes of this part-session will be submitted to the european parliament for approval at the beginning of the next part-session. if there are no objections, the resolutions adopted at today's meeting will be forwarded immediately to the addressees and the bodies named in them.
i adjourn the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 1.25 p.m.)
the emerging european external action service is a completely new instrument for institutionalising the european union's foreign policy. at the moment, i see two fundamental problems associated with this process. first of all, it is clear that foreign and security policy remains a matter of member states' sovereignty. the right of veto still applies when decisions are taken on matters of principle, which means that in the case of major decisions such as intervention in iraq or the secession of kosovo, no union foreign policy existed. the newly created foreign service will thus largely provide an incomplete agenda and, in the case of major political decisions, will only second the decisions of individual states or even remain silent. the composition of the diplomatic service remains a point of contention and the available information suggests that the role of the new member states in the selection process is, to say the least, underestimated.
i welcome the opening of the debate on the role of the minimum income as a tool in the fight against poverty. it is clear that in a year which has been declared the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, such an activity is entirely appropriate. the first question i ask myself is the telling power of official data on unemployment, average wages, the percentage of people living in poverty and the definition of the poverty line. the average wage is a figure from the realm of improbable, if not downright false, numbers. if we add up the millions of salaries of various managers and minimum wage workers, the figure can be considered very unreliable. in comparing salaries, managers and executives should be given special guidance. moreover, the relationship between per capita income measured, for example, as gdp per capita and the minimum wage is very loose. in portugal and the czech republic, gdp as measured by per capita income is roughly the same. but the minimum wage varies by almost 50%. the indicator of the poverty line and the measure of the risk of poverty is completely incomprehensible to my late understanding. when i read that in sweden the poverty risk rate for the population is 12%, in the czech republic 9%, while in luxembourg it is 13%, i cannot help but wonder. despite these shortcomings, the report has a certain capacity to speak.
i voted against the adoption of this report on women in precarious employment because i believe that parttime work, fixed-term work and other similar types of contract are beneficial for women in the labour market, especially for women who are caring for children and want to have a job at the same time. i think that these flexible forms of work are really beneficial and that we should encourage them in such a way that employers are interested in taking them, and thus give women more room to choose. at the same time, i cannot agree to any childcare quotas being set, for example that by 2013, 33% of children under the age of three will be in group care. i'm a strong advocate of the principle of family freedom, the need to leave it to families to decide how to care for their children.
i would like to make three comments on the preparation of the european budget for next year. in my view, we must strive for the following approach: first, the european parliament must take account of the real economic situation in the member states, where the economy is either declining or stagnating in most of the countries of the european union and only growing in a few countries. we must bear this in mind and we cannot therefore demand an increase in european spending in a situation where resources are scarce. secondly, the european parliament must continue the tradition of balanced management of the european budgets. it is good that we have balanced budgets and do not have to face the need to restructure debt like almost all member states. thirdly, the european parliament should discuss the budget so that it is adopted, as usual, at the last plenary session before christmas. the certainty of the approved budget is important for economic stability in europe and we should be able to support it in this way.
all levels of government, starting with local governments, must save. all european governments, without distinction, are forced to reduce public spending. this is not only the case with the much-discussed situation in greece, which managed to reduce its budget deficit by 46% in the first six months of this year, but also the czech republic, germany, ireland and all the others. the european commission itself has repeatedly told member states: 'cut down public finances quickly!' i therefore find it rather illogical that in the midst of the ongoing economic crisis the european commission proposed to strengthen the european budget for 2011 again. europe should also be saving. of course, there is no consensus on where to save, for understandable reasons. in my view, it should not be regional policy, but rather european administration, promotion costs and the brussels bureaucracy, which is almost 7%. it is on administrative expenditure that the greatest debate has traditionally been fought, and unfortunately my view differs from that of the majority in parliament.
i think we should start by thanking the rapporteur, mrs barbara weiler, in particular, for the quality of her work, because it was not easy at first, but i think we can be satisfied with the final version. contrary to the commission's original proposal, which seemed to me a bit out of touch with reality, this amendment to the directive has succeeded in bringing it closer to the reality of commercial and contractual relations. the proposal has also been simplified and made more clear, which i consider to be a very important step towards making the standard more understandable. and if anything is worth mentioning, it is the fact that, contrary to the commission's original proposal, we have managed to preserve the principle of freedom of contract in trade and contractual relations. it is also very good news that the provisions establishing the european union institutions as equivalent to the public authorities of the member states have been implemented. this means that from now on these bodies will also be obliged to pay on time, which will be appreciated in particular by the beneficiaries of european grants. i am also very pleased that the most absurd provision has been dropped, which ordered the public authorities to pay a flat-rate penalty of 5% of the total amount owed, in addition to the standard interest rate, for late payment of even one day. i do not need to stress the impact this provision would have on already strained public budgets. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues once again for the efforts they have made to find a common compromise in the form of this report. i think it was a meaningful expenditure of energy.
the necessary proposal for a revision of the late payments directive that we are discussing today is certainly better than the original proposal. but i regret that the resulting compromise failed to ensure the equal status of all actors and to maintain a level playing field for both public and private entities. while payment periods for contracts between undertakings should in principle be limited to 60 calendar days and may be extended in exceptional cases, in the case of contracts with public authorities, which include municipalities and cities, the periods should not exceed 30 calendar days. that's wrong in my opinion, because all actors should be on equal terms. the argument that public authorities have an advantage, that they can obtain funding on more attractive terms than businesses, or that they are less dependent on building lasting relationships, may apply to state authorities or european institutions, but it certainly does not apply to most smaller towns and rural communities not only in the czech republic but across europe. the resulting proposal is therefore highly discriminatory precisely for these smaller cities.
i have no doubt that tomorrow we will vote in favour of this amended directive, and thus open the way to a new business culture where timely payments are the norm and late payments are highly penalised. small businesses in particular will appreciate that even government agencies and institutions linked to the state budget will no longer owe for many months for goods and services and will pay perhaps within thirty days. i am pleased that the council has agreed to a new recovery fee of eur 40 and i also support an increase in the default interest rate by 1% compared to the current rate. i just think it's not sustainable to enforce minimum amounts, which are more like mistakes and have no visible impact on the solvency of companies. fortunately, this does not apply to late payments by consumers. i am pleased that my committee and the council have agreed that it is not possible to introduce a dual regime of sanctions for the private and public sectors, as proposed by the commission. i pointed out the paradox that hospitals, for example, would have to pay their private creditors more in penalties than they could themselves demand from their debtors. this change is creating a quality instrument and i congratulate mrs barbora weiler.
in writing. the report on the fight against late payment aims to improve the functioning of the internal market, to increase payment morale and to support the solvency of smes. the current trend is to pay invoices just before or after the due date. the measures proposed are intended to create a new business culture in which timely payments are the rule and late payments are considered an unacceptable abuse of the customer's position and a breach of contract. a new rate of 1% is to be set for the reimbursement of the costs of late payment recovery, both for individuals, businesses and public authorities, whereby in the case of late payment of a single instalment, the interest and penalties would be calculated exclusively on the late payment. the payment deadline is fixed at 30 days by the proposal. deviations are allowed only in exceptional circumstances. it is necessary to state clearly here when this is an exceptional case. the rapporteur proposes to set a deadline of 60 days as the maximum length of the payment deadline for public authorities, which i fully support. the interest on late payments should be progressive in order to motivate the debtor to pay the obligation as soon as possible. the legal approach, including sanctions, should in my view be supplemented by so-called soft measures by the member states, such as support for electronic invoicing, adjustment of the instalment system for large volumes of work or services, or positive disclosure of names.
in writing. in many eu member states, ninety-day and longer deadlines for invoices required by the public sector and large enterprises are common practice. smes thus serve as banks for public corporations or large enterprises. the internal indebtedness of smes is accumulating and economic poison is being created in the form of invoices with a long maturity and difficulty of recovery. this increases economic inequality and also significantly restricts competition. smes are forced to cover long maturities with credit products, which they always obtain on terms worse than those that large firms or the public sector could obtain from banks. the new terms and conditions for all entities will significantly help smes to guard against this hidden lending. the proposed 8% fixed rate of interest for late payments is sufficiently dissuasive even for large firms, the fixed 30-day payment deadline is balanced for both suppliers and customers, and the 30-day delivery verification deadline prevents the verification procedure from being abused for the purpose of extending the maturity. in particular, the fact that these are european rules prevents the public sector and large companies from distorting the legislation adopted at national level in the member states. i would like to thank the rapporteur most sincerely for her extremely valuable report and for the excellent result.
as we have been listening to this debate since this morning, i think all those who say that the european union is at a serious crossroads are right. on the one hand, there are those who have a strong community approach. on the other hand, and it is fair to say so, there is a minority in this parliament who think that the european union should continue to operate more on an intergovernmental basis. this is also the case with the proposal to introduce various forms of european taxation, although this is called innovative financing. there is a call for a deeper european union, for more powers to be given to the european commission at the expense of the member states. it is a pity that not once since this morning has it been said that the european union or the european commission should reduce its programmes, reduce the number of its often contentious agencies, and reform the common agricultural policy.
in writing. the draft report on the revision of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission aims to achieve the institutional balance between the ep and the ec underpinned by the treaty of lisbon. while interinstitutional agreements do not change primary law, they clarify the relationship between the eu institutions. the final text of the proposal is, according to the rapporteur, a balanced compromise between the positions and views of both institutional parties, with the most difficult negotiations being in the area of eu international relations. parliament should be fully informed in order to facilitate the granting of its consent and to avoid a repetition of non-conclusion of international agreements whose negotiation has already been completed. the lisbon treaty has given parliament new powers to monitor the transposition and application of eu legislation in national law more closely and in depth, which i welcome. common european legislation is of little importance if it is not applied by some member states at national level. i agree with the wording of the report and will vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. i appreciate that the report has managed to insert some safeguards in the form of amendments to ensure that nationals of certain member states are not given an advantage over nationals of other member states when filling posts in the european external action service. the european union's foreign policy is a specific area and the principle of an adequate representation of nationals of all member states among the staff of the european external action service must therefore be applied in addition to the qualification and representation of a broad geographical base. i therefore consider it very important that parliament has proposed to delete the provisions which allowed officials from the council or the commission to be transferred to the european external action service without a prior competition for a vacant post.
in writing. for the first time in its history, the european parliament debated the draft general budget of the european union for 2011 under the new rules of the lisbon treaty. the number of changes made by the parliament's plenary clearly shows that the level of control and democratic functioning of the european union has increased. i supported this proposal in view of the improvement of democratic procedures, but also in view of the budgetary structure itself.
remember, colleagues, try to think outside the box. you can't change the laws or the composition of the electoral commission in a week. interestingly, whenever certain political forces feel that their allies in a country outside the european union have not won, those forces abroad immediately express concern about the state of democracy in that country. i agree with what mr. kamiński and others said. it is essential that the european parliament's actions contribute to the development of democracy and improve the conditions for the mutual development of relations. the effort to support the ukrainian government's stabilization measures seems to have caught the eye of some who relish chaos and injustice. my colleagues seem to think they're better partners than the current government. i recommend that the motion for a resolution be tabled and that the matter be reopened after the delegation returns from kiev.
for the ecr group. i understand why the proposal is being made, but i do not share the reasons for making it. i think that in today's globalised world it is difficult to identify a single country of origin, because the quality of a product is much more guaranteed by its brand than by its country of origin. it should also be stressed that this proposal does not concern the protection of a trade mark or a trade mark and cannot therefore be of any help in the area of trade mark protection. the commissioner has already spoken here of the fact that it will lead to an increase in the cost of a product and therefore probably also to an increase in the price of that product. after all, what has been mentioned here several times, namely that the proposal concerns only certain products, could even be described as something like product or geographical discrimination. i would therefore advocate that we stick to the voluntary marking because, after all, where consumers attach sufficient added value to such marking, the majority of union producers already use this marking on a voluntary basis. the european union is often criticised for being over-regulatory, for adopting too many laws that burden the economic environment. so please, at least in this case, let us not add to the burden on the legal and economic environment in the european union.
czech glassmakers, textile manufacturers and shoemakers have been contacting me for a long time, calling for transparency on the origin of the product. it must compete with imitations of unclear origin which are parasitic on the european union market. most of the goods are of poor quality and often harmful to health. moreover, the information about where textiles, shoes, glass, jewelry, and pharmaceuticals were made is not a secret fact, nor is it a protectionist or a barrier to free trade, as liberals label it. on the contrary, free markets and fair competition work well only where consumers are able to make informed and free choices. i fully support the rapporteur, mrs muscardini, and i appreciate her contribution to reaching a compromise which will hopefully enable the proposal to be adopted tomorrow. i understand that, especially in the nordic countries where the traditional producer has already replaced imports from third countries, such regulations may be seen as unnecessary bureaucracy. but by adopting the regulation, we are keeping pace with our competitors in the us, canada, japan and china, where 'made in' is mandatory. like my predecessor, i want to say that the commission needs to propose at least minimum standards for sanctions, and to ensure that the rules are respected uniformly throughout the union and that third country exporters do not favour some entry countries because of lower or no sanctions. we owe it to our citizens.
in writing. i fully support the report on the indication of the country of origin for various products imported from third countries. the proposal by mrs cristiana muscardini addresses the lack of european legislation in this area. the requirement to designate origin for products can contribute to a level playing field in the world trade market, since similar protection of domestic products is already required by various world economies, such as the united states, canada or japan. protection of this type will therefore help goods produced in the european union to be more competitive with those from third countries. country of origin labelling also contributes to the preservation of traditional production methods, typical product characteristics and quality. this type of protection of european products will also have a positive impact on the preservation of jobs in all member states. i would also like to point out that the indication of the country of origin increases consumer awareness and transparency in the decision to buy a particular product and prevents any fraudulent claims of origin or counterfeiting.
through our written statement, we have sought transparency in the acta negotiations and the safeguarding of personal data protection and the eu acquis. i'm glad that the draft agreement is finally out in the open and that most of the issues that we've been criticizing have been removed from the agreement. however, it would be a loss for the union if, for example, the protection of geographical indications were to be restricted, so that, for example, the karlovy vary wines or the champagne wines in question would not have to be protected by non-european countries throughout their territory. it's not enough to control the borders. i'm asking the commissioner for an explanation. however, i also doubt the effectiveness of the agreement, since the world's biggest counterfeiters from asia are not parties to it, which can also cause problems for businesses and consumers in implementing the agreement. finally, i would ask the commissioner or the commission to provide us with a detailed analysis of the impact of acta on the european union.
for the group gue/ngl an integrated maritime policy is not the first subject to be discussed in the context of the european union, but it is still very difficult to combine environmental protection, fisheries, transport, energy, industry, science and research and to integrate the different aspects of development into a single plan. the commission's report answers the question of how the action plan contained in the 2007 blue paper is being implemented. the report shows that 56 of the 65 proposed measures have been initiated or finalised, usually as commission or council acts. however, for inland regions, the priority is to link the maritime policy with the policy of better and more rational use of the main european currents, see point 40 of the report. traditionally, the focus here has been on the rhine, the meuse and the associated waterway system of france, belgium, the netherlands and germany, including the rhine-mohn-danube link. unfortunately, the central part of the danube downstream from vienna, including the labe tributary upstream from magdeburg, is already in the shadow of these efforts. the transport use of these flows is much less talked about and investment in improving navigability is on the fringe of the european commission and council's interest. this is a pity, because the great energy potential of these flows is not exploited and unnecessary pressure is put on the expansion of transhipment yards in port cities, which transfer freight from ships to rail and road without using the capacity of river ports. of course, alongside the related shipping, rail and road transport, the issues of nature conservation and the energy use of coastal regions must be tackled in a fundamental way. it is logical to add two more questions to the ones raised in the gesine meissner report, namely the continuity and interdependence of maritime and river transport. i welcome the dozens of measures contained in the report. i would like to stress the need for a consistent application of the third maritime package. i consider the key initiative in the prevention of pollution in point 21 to be the work on the ecological solution of cleaning oil tankers and disposing of old ships. the current state of the matter is sad. the gue/ngl group agrees with the report.
i will take it into account. it was of course a point of order and the situation in western sahara and the situation in morocco are not what we are supposed to be talking about this afternoon. i will, however, take note of what you said.
this debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is cambodia, specifically the case of sam rainsy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on north caucasus, in particular the case of oleg orlov see minutes..
i want to think about how it is possible that we're still talking about human rights for a relatively small group of people and completely missing the point. the core of the north caucasus poodle is a powerful outside interference by the wahhabis, who are trained, who are armed, and who are coming in with clear objectives. if you don't know where the wahabis come from and where they're funded, it's from the same sources that other terrorist organizations are said to have. and unfortunately, the resolution is completely missing the point of why there are so many flagrant violations of human rights in various parts of the north caucasus. of course, human rights must be respected, but the conditions for their respect must be created. and if the external financing of terrorist organizations is secured, and it's secured very well, then those conditions are hard to secure. and the resolution, unfortunately, does not capture that.
the debate is closed. the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes) written statements (rule 149)
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting closed at 16.25)
in writing. the forthcoming eu-us summit will certainly confirm the extraordinary importance of these relations. increasingly, globalisation requires both the eu and the us to pursue a policy of all azimuts, and the strategic importance of the transatlantic partnership has not diminished. it is therefore necessary to approach such negotiations with the utmost openness, which is a necessary precondition for the working nature of the meeting to be held. the past few days have highlighted three issues that should be at the centre of the union's negotiators' attention: the different strategies with which the eu and the us are approaching the current global economic crisis; different policy approaches to the adverse environmental situation of the planet and climate change; security issues. the unilateral decision by the us federal reserve (fed) to buy us government bonds for 600 billion without consulting the eu will weaken europe's economic position. it is therefore essential that the eu speak out clearly in favour of seeking a global currency other than the us dollar. the union must continue to be a pioneer in green technologies and legislation and put pressure on both the us government and congress to do so. i believe it is necessary to call on eu leaders at the forthcoming summit to make clear to washington our support for president barack obama's efforts to achieve global nuclear disarmament and to ratify the new start treaty, which was signed by the russian and us presidents in prague this year.
the emergence and operation of hedge funds and private equity funds was driven by strong financial market regulation before the financial crisis. the financial institutions therefore chose these instruments as methods to avoid capital market regulation. so it's not the alternative investment funds, but a lot of different regulations that are the main reason for what we're dealing with today with even more regulation. capital has the ability to react flexibly and is highly mobile. it will not be stopped by state intervention and if regulation is too harsh, it will either push this segment of financial services outside the european union or find new, as yet unregulated forms of its own. it is safe to say that the material we are discussing may be responding to the past, but it does not reduce the risk of a future crisis. however, mr. gauzès and his friends did a good job, i think.
in writing. alternative funds (afs) such as hedge funds or private equity appear to have contributed to the ongoing global crisis and the issue of their regulation is currently being discussed not only in the eu but also in the us. the report follows up the rasmussen and lehn reports (both from 2008) and deals with the draft alternative investment fund managers directive (afim). the report provides a comprehensive analysis of the af issues, including a description of key points, which may include the regulation of the activities of the aifm (including the creation of a single european passport), the obligation of the aifm to appoint an independent asset valuer for each aif it manages, the requirement to enhance the transparency of the aif and market discipline, or the regulation of short selling. the directive also allows member states to allow aifms to offer aifs to retail investors. on the other hand, criticisms of the proposed regulation are raised (for example, the larosière report, the turner review or the reaction of the alternative investment management association). the adoption of that directive should not imply a significant change for af in the czech republic due to the high level of current czech relevant regulation. overall, i consider that the report presented by mr jean-paul gauzèse contains a precise analysis of the issues and also relevant recommendations in the field of af, and therefore i recommend that it be approved as proposed.
malcolm harbour talked about ambition, i'd like to talk about courage. when mario monti was preparing this wonderful report, or so i called it, i asked him if he thought that politicians would have the courage to follow his recommendations, both at the level of the european union and at the level of the member states. and he said very cleverly, because he's a clever politician, "that's your business, you're a politician. so i would like to talk about the courage to push forward the things that i think are important for europe, because the internal market is one of the most important tools for competitiveness in a global europe and at the same time for preserving jobs. in this respect, i would like to ask the commissioner to be courageous in his dealings with the member states, with the national parliaments and with us, because this debate will certainly not be easy. there are certainly issues where we will understand each other, where we will agree with each other, but there will be issues that we will discuss very intensely.
in writing. the single market act is an initiative which i wholeheartedly welcome and support. i would like to mention, however, a problem which i also see in this context, not in the margins. this is a long-term communication strategy not only for this document but for the single market in general. in proposal no 48, the commission states that it will strengthen consultation and dialogue with civil society, with particular attention to take into account the views of consumers. however, if the commission really wants the views of ordinary consumers, it must do much more than it has done so far to promote this proposal. in the czech republic and slovakia, for example, the mention of this key document has unfortunately been completely lost in the media. there seems to be no subject worthy of attention here. the information campaign on the benefits of the single internal market should therefore not be confined to the european institutions but should be as decentralised as possible at national and regional level. it should focus on the benefits of the single market and on solving everyday problems of consumers in the internal market, such as bank charges, comparison of product prices, etc. i therefore call on the commission to improve its communication strategy towards end-users, so that citizens are better informed about the benefits of the single market.
the author. the commission's initiative to set up a pilot programme under the 'active and healthy ageing' innovation partnership is certainly an interesting commission activity. the commission's choice of this pilot project is, for me, a demonstration of the importance of the ageing issue for the european union as a whole. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the european union agency for fundamental rights' activities in the field of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular the european union agency for fundamental rights' activities in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms. this is justified by the different historical developments and the ways in which countries approach the issue. it will therefore be interesting to see how the commission manages to find a truly innovative approach to tackling such a complex problem. i hope that the solution will not be a mere generic description but will be a real help in the area. our discussion with colleagues has led to two other possible topics for innovation partnerships, namely smart cities as the first topic and raw materials as the second topic. in view of the current situation and the problems to be faced, i would strongly advocate such an approach in the area of raw materials. already today, and most likely in the coming years, member states will be under great pressure to secure raw materials. this affects both energy and industrial production. there are a number of problems with raw materials, and many of parliament's committees deal with them on a regular basis. ensuring the continuity of supplies or finding new sources of raw materials is a crucial condition for future economic growth and the competitiveness of european countries. this, of course, has implications in many areas, including the social conditions of citizens living in the various countries of europe. reasonably set rules, with an emphasis on the economics of the availability of raw materials, will certainly be very important in the future.
for the s&d group. this year marks the 35th anniversary of the final act of the helsinki conference. the helsinki process contributed to major historical changes in europe. once divided by world war ii and the cold war, the continent now lives in peace and cooperation. citizens of most countries behind the former iron curtain enjoy their human, civil and democratic rights and freedoms to the full. however, not all the objectives of the helsinki process have been fully achieved. in many regions, neighbourhood and ethnic conflicts persist. many countries have trouble implementing civil rights and democracy. and all osce member states are exposed to new challenges and security threats, such as terrorism, organised crime, trafficking in human beings and drugs, and energy, environmental and cyber security. thirty-five years since helsinki and eleven years since the last summit in istanbul the osce needs new impetus, revival and reform. the corfu process and its current culmination in the upcoming december astana summit offer a suitable framework for discussing these reforms. in its resolution, which we shall be voting on tomorrow, the european parliament has prepared a number of proposals and initiatives for this summit. we propose, for example, that a concrete plan of activities on conflict prevention, crisis management and post-conflict recovery be discussed and adopted at the summit, or an action plan outlining the way forward towards the establishment of a security sector charter in the osce area of operation. the osce, as already mentioned, is a unique and integral part of the euro-atlantic, euro-asian security architecture with a broad membership base uniting countries from vancouver to vladivostok. the uniqueness of this organisation also lies in the interconnectedness of the political-military, economic-environmental and human rights dimensions of cooperation. the european union and its common foreign and security policy, reinforced by the treaty of lisbon, should extend cooperation between the two organisations, since only through such cooperation can common objectives be achieved.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, 11 november 2010 at 12.00. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by agustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders of member states and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (com(2010)0358 – c7-0162/2010 – 2010/0192(cod)) (a7-0294/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, 11 november 2010 at 12.00. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 150).
that concludes the item.
the next item is the report by thomas mann, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the demographic challenge and solidarity between generations (2010/2027(ini)) (a7-0268/2010).
the issue of intergenerational solidarity has many different aspects, as the rapporteur's document by thomas mann describes well. one of the most important is the question of how to provide for old age and, in particular, how to finance it in a sustainable and stable way, guaranteeing a decent level of pensions in the long term. i therefore regard point 99 of the report as problematic, where the rapporteur states, inter alia, that the continuously funded pension system should be replaced by a system based on capital funds. the current crisis has also highlighted the danger of undermining the solvency of some private pension funds, which have been hit hard by falling interest rates and declining investment values. in 2008, for example, private pension funds lost more than 20% of their value. as a result of the decline in their solvency, they were forced to sell their assets at a loss. many of them are still struggling to pay their bills. capital pension funds cannot be the answer to demographic trends. they are primarily financial products with their own risks. i do not therefore think it is wise to expose to such risks such a vital social task as the dignified provision of care in old age.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, 11 november 2010 at 12.00. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. the demographic challenge report addresses the socioeconomic challenges arising from the rapidly ageing population and the associated high financial burden on future generations. ensuring intergenerational justice is one of the main objectives of european social policy. europe's population is ageing. the birth rate in eu countries remains low. in many countries, immigration has reduced the birth rate, but we can't say that it's a success. a large percentage of children from immigrant families receive only a low level of education and face unemployment in the future. a substantial proportion of immigrants create their own social networks without integrating into society. i agree with the rapporteur that migration is conditioned by the willingness of immigrants to adapt and the willingness of the host countries to accept them. another hidden problem is the social composition of the children born. the largest percentage, apart from immigrants, are children from the socially weak and most vulnerable groups. unfortunately, it is now the norm that people with qualifications and a responsible approach to life often have only one offspring, while the maladjusted and socially weak have an average of four. these are often called "birth-parents" to solve their current financial shortage. for these reasons, in addition to the resources requested by the rapporteur, i would welcome support programmes to increase the birth rate of those who are qualified and have a responsible attitude to life, and not particularly those who are not adaptable, as is the case today.
the next item is the report by maria da graça carvalho, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on simplifying the implementation of the research framework programmes (2010/2079(ini)) (a7-0274/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, 11 november 2010 at 12.00. written statements (rule 149)
this is the second time in this parliamentary term that the european union's accounts have been included in the programme. first of all, i would like to thank mr da silva caldeira and his team for the work they have done. on the other hand, i am surprised to see the error rate of almost 92% of the expenditure side of the budget, when all chapters except administrative expenditure and economic affairs are included. i wonder to what extent the member states are involved in these errors and to what extent there is insufficient control by the commission. the report suggests that the answer is that there are many shortcomings in the member states' control systems themselves. so i think that what is needed first and foremost is more cooperation and openness on the part of the member states in order to avoid big errors.
in writing. the european court of auditors is presenting its sixteenth report, which gives a statement of assurance as to the legality and regularity of the operations underlying the accounts of the eu budget. i would like to emphasize that the error rate of some of the studies is still high. for example, the court finds that the error rate for cohesion projects is more than 5%, which i personally consider to be too high, even though the trend has been improving in recent years. in my view, the european commission should make every effort to reduce the error rate to a maximum of acceptable 2%. it should be noted, however, that the error does not always refer to mismanagement of the funds entrusted, but often to accounting errors in the administration of individual projects.
it is the unquestionable merit of this parliament that the amount of funding for energy efficiency and renewable energy projects reaches eur 146 million. if it were up to the member countries, it would be considerably less. unfortunately, the legal form and structure of the fund and the financial projects it will provide are still unclear. in the interests of transparency, the potential applicant should know who will decide on the applications and how the selection panel will be appointed. in order to dispel any suspicion that the newly established fund is mainly targeted at those who have not used the allocated funds under the five billion package of the economic recovery programme due to the non-implementation of projects, representatives of the new member states should also be involved in the selection process. although the fund is primarily intended for local and regional public authorities, it is appropriate to consider whether it would not be appropriate for private entities to be eligible applicants, beyond cases where they act on behalf of public authorities. increasing energy efficiency and the share of renewable energy sources should be a shared responsibility of both the public and private sectors, and european funding should therefore be available to both groups. i see a big opportunity in combined heat and power and clean urban transport.
in writing. rising cereal prices are threatening the eu's livestock sector, also due to its dependence on imported feed from third countries. the situation is critical in pigmeat production, where feed accounts for 60% of production costs, but rising costs may gradually threaten all animal production sectors in the eu. europe should therefore reduce its dependence on imports of feed from third countries. it's definitely not the solution to switch to genetically modified food from the united states. in the eu, it takes about two and a half years to get approved, in argentina it takes about three years, in brazil it takes three to five years, and china is also taking strict measures in this area. in the us, on the other hand, it takes 15 months to get approval. the crisis in the eu livestock sector should not be used to further the commercial intentions of us companies, which see significant export potential in the european market. the european union should focus on reducing production costs, ensuring that third countries comply with eu standards and that producers receive a fair price for their products. it is not possible for consumers to bear the consequences of rising costs, producers to receive less and less money and distributors to have more and more profits. i do not agree with the commission's position that no urgent measures are necessary because we are facing a structural crisis which needs to be addressed not only to ensure food security.
in writing. − as regards the forthcoming agreement between the european union and the united states on the protection of personal data in the context of police and judicial cooperation, one fundamental question needs to be asked: is there a balanced interest on both sides in such an agreement? i do not think so, the us interest in obtaining data on eu citizens is paramount. taking into account the differences in the personal data protection systems of the two parties, it is easy to conclude that the conclusion of such an agreement is almost impossible - if the standard of personal data protection provided by the european convention on human rights and the eu charter of fundamental rights is to be guaranteed. furthermore, it is essential that the negotiation of such an agreement between the eu and the us precede the adoption of rules on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies and by the member states, as provided for in article 16 tfeu.
in writing. the rapporteur, in my view, is quite right in proposing two measures concerning the impact of the inequalities in demographic trends on the financing of social spending and on the financial situation of pension systems in all the member states. the first measure aims to increase youth employment and the second to push the retirement threshold. i share the rapporteur's view that older people are not a burden on the economy and society, but rather a great asset in terms of their life experience and knowledge. i decided to support the report because the controversial part of the report which supported the idea of replacing the current interim system with a system based on capital funds was omitted from the report.
in writing. − the current uneven demographic developments have a significant impact on the financing of social spending and the financial situation of pension systems in all eu member states. in his non-legislative report, thomas mann proposes a twofold measure, on the one hand, to increase the employment of young people and, on the other, to delay retirement. i support the rapporteur's view that older people are not a burden on the economy and society but, on the contrary, a great asset because of their experience, their life's work and their knowledge. in this respect, i agree with the rapporteur who proposes concrete measures to create a basis for open dialogue and calls on the commission and the council to introduce intergenerational balances in all member states and at eu level.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 23 november 2010). written statements (rule 149)
in writing. the report on the prohibition of fishing for the best quality stock and the restriction of fishing for whiting and plaice in the baltic sea, the great and small belt and the sound seeks to establish new rules for fishing in those areas. the baltic sea has the status of a 'particularly sensitive marine area' (pssa) and is one of the most valuable but also most sensitive marine ecosystems on our planet. for this reason, i agree with the rapporteur that it is absolutely necessary to abandon - and not only here - the industrial fishing method. only economically and environmentally balanced fishing, with the right fishing practices, can help to preserve fisheries and the current stock of fish in a sustainable way for future generations. the baltic sea is also experiencing massive fish displacement due to climate change, which requires regular review of marine protected areas. i therefore call on the commission to do so at regular intervals. it is also necessary to legislate to encourage fishing companies to use the best available gear currently available in terms of selectivity and to avoid massive catches of large numbers of undersized fish and non-target species or discards. in particular, this should be included in the european parliament's proposal for the reform of the common fisheries policy in 2011, which i will be pushing for.
the next item is the joint debate on – the report by christofer fjellner, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending, as regards information to the general public on medicinal products subject to medical prescription, directive 2001/83/ec on the community code relating to medicinal products for human use (com(2008)0663 – c6-0516/2008 - 2008/0256(cod)) (a7-0290/2010), and– the report by christofer fjellner, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending, as regards information to the general public on medicinal products for human use subject to medical prescription, regulation (ec) no 726/2004 laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency (com(2008)0662 – c6-0517/2008 – 2008/0255(cod)) (a7-0289/2010).
for the ecr group. i would like to begin by emphasising that this report is one which i fully support. i've spent my professional life fighting for every citizen to become the manager of their own health, and that can only happen if they're properly informed. as my colleague horst schnellhardt has already mentioned, we have been fighting for this rule to be changed since the last parliamentary term. all this debate about not being able to distinguish advertising from information, i'm sorry, but it seems ridiculous to me today. each of us can distinguish the information we are asked for from the information that is forced upon us. we should open the door fully to all information that is requested. let us remember that we live in a globalised world and let us not force european citizens to look for information on us websites.
for the group gue/ngl like my colleague ouzky, i have spent my professional life as a doctor trying to better inform my patients. but it's customary to start by praising the good work of the reporter, and i'd like to do that, with a small rebuke, which i'll make later. when we started to discuss this proposal, we faced two problems after the election of the new commission. firstly, the matter was transferred to the new commissioner, and secondly, we were faced with the problem of whether to continue the work begun or to put the old document down and start again. like most of you and commissioner dalli, i agreed that the original commission proposal was not good, it did not meet the needs of patients and consumers. so we didn't want to waste any time and worked together on an old document. we agreed to reject commercial campaigns by pharmaceutical companies. we excluded print media as a communication channel and agreed that patients have a right to know who is providing information and that companies are responsible for all the information they disseminate. i am somewhat surprised that mr fjellner is again tabled in plenary an amendment which we rejected in committee and which would be a step backwards and contradictory to the amended text of the motion. if such a proposal were to be adopted, i'd have a hard time voting for an overall good document.
the medicines directive has not been significantly amended for almost a decade and is therefore more than necessary to revise it. i fully support the idea that the patient is fully informed and at the same time that he is a full partner for the doctor and that he can participate in the decision-making and also take his share of responsibility for these decisions. the availability of information is undoubtedly a key factor in this change. this information will certainly include information on medicinal products and on those subject to prescription restrictions. patients should have access to the product information not only in printed form but also in electronic form. they should have access to information that is independent, objective, complete, truthful, available in an understandable form and in an understandable language. i thank the rapporteur for his good work and i will support his proposal.
i very much appreciate the work of the rapporteur on the rules to improve the availability and quality of medicines information for european patients. as a doctor, i can say that the information in the leaflets is usually reliable and understandable to doctors. now they'll have to be written in a way that the layman can understand. but we also have the ambition to end misleading advertising on the internet that tempts people to buy products that not only do not cure but can also harm patients. however, regulating web content in a globalized digital environment is a challenge. i want to emphasize again that the solution is to implement the proposal for the introduction of a trust mark for secure websites as soon as possible. only then will it be possible to ensure that there is reliable content on medicines on the internet, regardless of the continent in which the site operator is based. this concept was also included in my report on consumer confidence in the digital environment.
in writing. renewable resources are intended to contribute to environmental protection. it is completely against their purpose to create new dangers for the environment and human health. the rohs directive and the council resolution of 28 january 1988 on a community action programme to combat environmental pollution by cadmium are both fundamentally directed against the use of cadmium, as europe is one of the areas particularly at risk from this cumulative carcinogenic toxin. i would like to express my strong disagreement with amendment no. 12. this proposal excludes photovoltaic panels from the scope of the rohs directive. the commission has not found any evidence that the exemption is justified. it is actually about legalizing the production of cadmium telluride cells. cdte cells allow producers to achieve higher profit rates than silicon cells. the approval of this proposal therefore constitutes an incentive to the production of cdte cells at the expense of silicon cells, which have unlimited sources of material for production and do not contain toxic substances. the situation is all the more serious as if the exemption from the rohs directive is granted to pv cells, it will take several years for this decision to be reviewed and reconsidered. only if solar panel manufacturers are required to comply with the rohs requirements now, like everyone else, will this accelerate research into non-toxic photovoltaic technologies.
allow me to make two other points for discussion. the audiovisual services directive, which has already been adopted, improves cooperation between supervisory authorities and provides a high level of protection for children against inappropriate programmes and advertising. but the member states are not disciplined in implementing it, for example, in my country it has only been in force since june. we also have the unfinished copyright harmonization. we need both simplification of the acquisition of cross-border licences for audiovisual works from collective management organisations and the release of the archive of audiovisual works due to unclear copyright in so-called orphan works. i have checked that the commission will be proposing new legislation next year, but it wants to limit it to musical works only, not to audiovisual works. i now ask the commission to tell me whether it will correct this fundamental error or whether we, as members of the committees, will have to deal with it. this problem is addressed in point 33 of this report.
natural, but as the recent tragedy of the toxic sludge spill in hungary has shown, industrial disasters in europe are also a phenomenon that unfortunately occurs relatively often. the credibility of the european union as a community of solidarity in need depends on its ability to provide effective and, above all, rapid assistance to the affected areas and their citizens. time is of the essence here. therefore, the rules governing possible assistance should be as flexible as possible, in particular as regards the cross-border scope of disasters. the condition of achieving the defined expected level of damage regardless of the size of the affected areas and the intensity of the damage appears to be unsatisfactory. you can't really predict everything. i therefore fully support the change towards an efficient and rapid mobilisation of resources. the ability to help one's own citizens is also, in my view, a major positive element in the perception of the eu. how better to prove that europe is here for its citizens?
the draftsman of the committee on regional development. - we in the regi committee welcomed the commission's proposal, but recommended that certain changes be made. we also proposed to extend the deadline for closing non-competitive mines. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiaries of the aid is limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs of the operation of the mine. we have also suggested, among other things, the possibility of adapting the use of cohesion funds to the regions affected. the committee also considers that the only acceptable outcome of state aid to uncompetitive mines should not be merely their closure, but should at the same time allow for a development towards becoming competitive. if the mine becomes competitive by a certain date, this is certainly a desirable situation, which is in the interest of the region and ultimately of the union as a whole. the importance of coal-fired power plants lies, inter alia, in the fact that, in the event of a sudden increase in energy demand, they are practically one of the few power plants able to react immediately and flexibly by increasing production, independently of other factors. if the promotion of the union's energy security is not to be a mere empty slogan, we cannot do without stable and competitive coal mines and a competitive coal industry.
in my view, there is no dispute that subsidies to any segment of the economy distort and destroy competition and that state aid is therefore harmful to the healthy functioning of the market not only in the short term but also in the long term. we are talking about regions that will be affected or could be affected by high unemployment, but on the other hand we must remember the regions that have already undergone restructuring in this segment of the economy, have undergone high unemployment and have coped with it. the cor will therefore support any proposal in today's vote that will allow member states sufficient time to carry out a thorough retraining of workers, to organise the cleaning up and removal of the environmental burden of coal mining, and to have the capacity to absorb any social shocks in time.
this measure confirms the old wisdom that the financier holds the state like a rope to a hangman. i'd like to make three points. first, i think the money should go to support the competitiveness of the endangered mines, which are about 5% of the entire european union. we should also prevent subsidized imports of coal from abroad. third, we should avoid any potential lobbying clashes. i am reminded of an example from the russian federation, where the oil lobby caused the closure of the coal mines in the vorkuta region, causing a social catastrophe. this should not be happening in the european union.
in writing. the report makes a number of recommendations in the areas of civil, commercial and family law as well as private international law. it focuses on measures to improve the enforcement of the law in crossborder disputes and, in the spirit of the stockholm programme, aims to increase cooperation between judicial authorities in the member states. the action plan also proposes a legislative initiative to develop a regulation to increase the effectiveness of the enforcement of judgments concerning the transparency of debtors' assets and a similar regulation on the freezing of bank accounts. i take the question of the unification of the information on personal status in the documents of eu citizens for granted, because of the removal of obstacles to travel. the report also calls on the commission, which has set up an arbitration working group, to consult any legislative proposals before they are submitted, as arbitration issues have a significant impact on international trade. the measures proposed in the report will help to increase the enforcement of the law in the eu, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the focus of the so-called stockholm programme and the plan for its implementation are positive. i consider one of the main reasons to be the fact that the programme aims to create the basis and conditions under which eu citizens can fully enjoy and enforce their rights and freedoms. the implementation of the stockholm programme has and will have its pitfalls. the objective need for harmonisation of legislation on the one hand (e.g. in the area of the right to freedom of movement) and the danger of abusing the heterogeneous interpretation of harmonised legal standards on the other. the stockholm programme initiative to ensure the recognition of official documents between member states is welcome. however, this mechanism must not be in direct conflict with the fundamental standards of the member states, in particular family law. since family law is the expression of a long tradition and a difficult-to-reach social consensus, it is not acceptable that, even with well-intentioned unification intentions, the sovereignty of the member states should be infringed in this area. further developments should focus on ensuring that the unified law does not lead to a reduction in the standards of rights (civil, social, etc.) which vary in the member states. it is also necessary to ensure that the unification of legislation does not lead to the possibility of property rights being created and the integrity of the state being violated, and it must be clearly defined by whom and how the enforceability of unified european legislation will be guaranteed.
as mr schulz said, this is not just a debate about the budget, but it is also a debate about the future shape of the european union, and that is true. it is clear that the debate on the budget is also, among other things, a debate on how best to ensure that the european union's own financial resources, i.e. greater autonomy, are used and how to move the european union further along the road towards a federalist structure. that is something that is, of course, totally unacceptable to me, that cannot be done and that must not be done. otherwise, i must say that it is tiresome to hear the constant hostility towards the council and that it is childish to listen to ultimatums and threats. if the european parliament goes down this road and if this confrontational tone, which we have heard from some of our colleagues here, continues, then only one thing will happen: the european parliament will lose in the media and in the public.
i would like to say that i am disappointed with the outcome of the negotiations between the council, the commission and parliament on the 2011 budget of the european union. at present, all of europe is facing an economic and financial crisis. european governments are facing falling revenues and the need to pay down large debts. the european parliament cannot pretend that it is not concerned. in such a difficult situation it is not right for parliament to ask for a 6% increase in the budget. it is also not right for him to try to exchange his approval of the budget for a promise to introduce own resources. i believe that the european parliament's negotiators cannot rush the negotiations, but must instead work towards an agreement. citizens, households, businesses, municipalities and states in the european union need stability, and only properly approved budgets, not budgetary provisions, can provide it. i therefore call on parliament, the council and the commission to agree on the 2011 budget of the european union as soon as possible.
the coming year will be a test for the european institutions to see whether their policies can support the current economic recovery and enable longer-term growth. the european commission's work programme is a key document in this respect. but i would like to say at this point that sometimes less legislation means more. i therefore follow with concern, for example, the commission's planned regulatory activities in the area of service concessions. in this particular case, it should be recalled that the concession area is explicitly excluded from the framework of public procurement today, as confirmed by numerous judgments of the european court of justice. radical changes would certainly not benefit this area. economic actors, including those in public administration, are most concerned when the conditions with which they have already learned to work are constantly changing and they are thus uncertain about their decisions. all policies also need to be adopted with a significant amount of time in advance to give everyone enough room to prepare during the implementation phase.
not surprisingly, the three countries that caused the budget negotiations to fail are net payers and, moreover, recipients of the rebate. yes, there is no doubt that britain has launched a bond battle for its rebate. the pretexts chosen by the budget pests are rather weak. to limit budgetary flexibility in a time of crisis is completely irresponsible. in a crisis, we need to deepen our flexibility. the rejection of a debate with parliament on new sources of funding for the eu budget as laid down in the treaty of lisbon and the rejection of a dialogue on the multiannual financial framework are sad caricatures of once-prized british humour.
reducing red tape and red tape is in everyone's interest and above all a legitimate demand of farmers who need as much time and energy as possible for their own work, crop production, animal husbandry, not for dealing with official paperwork and filling out forms. in 2005, the european commission committed itself to simplifying the common agricultural policy. it then set an ambitious target of reducing the administrative burden by 25% by 2012. although the commission cannot be denied some effort, its activities so far have not brought the expected simplification or the actual elimination of disparities between member states. in doing so, it is essential to ensure that the framework of the common agricultural policy is sufficiently flexible, in particular as regards the direct payment system. at the same time, the risks should be minimised so that the promotion of diversity does not only support uncompetitive and inefficient production areas of the european union. the objective of simplification must also be balanced by the pursuit of maximum efficiency.
in writing. beekeeping is one of the key activities supporting agricultural production. its specificities require a special approach to those who deal with it. recently, we have seen a massive outbreak of some serious bee diseases (varroasis), while in many countries the population of beekeepers is ageing and support for their work is underestimated by some national governments in times of economic crisis. there are other factors that threaten the continued existence of beekeeping and, indirectly, the yields of a number of important agricultural crops. these include, but are not limited to, the use of chemicals in agriculture and forestry. in this situation, it is high time to take a number of measures to promote beekeeping, to promote research in the field with a focus on the treatment of bee diseases and to train those who are interested in the activity. whether for the transitional period until 2013 or for a new seven-year period, it is necessary to prepare sufficiently motivating programmes for the development of beekeeping supported by appropriate instruments, both legal at eu level and by the allocation of funds and the establishment of control mechanisms to help monitor the achievement of the objectives of the programme for the support and development of beekeeping. without adequate measures, the development of a number of field crops is threatened, along with the fruit industry. i trust that the commission's response will be followed by concrete and timely measures.
colleagues, i welcome the delegation from the eea-efta parliaments, that is our colleagues from iceland, liechtenstein and norway, as well as the observers from the swiss federal assembly, who are in the official gallery. it is a pleasure for me to welcome this delegation to the european parliament in strasbourg, where they will participate in the 35th eea jpc meeting today and tomorrow. i hope that the well-established work of the eea jpc this week will be productive and will contribute to enhanced parliamentary cooperation, as well as to ensuring democratic parliamentary supervision within the eea. welcome, colleagues.
- we now continue with the debate on the conclusions of the european council meeting (28-29 october) and economic.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the council and commission statements on the results of the g20 summit.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
this directive is undoubtedly a step forward in the prevention of waste and the reduction of the use of hazardous substances. however, i find it somewhat controversial that pvc should be included in the scope of the directive as a priority substance. both pvc, or polyvinyl chloride, and its waste are not classified as dangerous under european union law. even if we accept the objection that the legislation on hazardous substances and the studies are already 10 years old and may therefore be outdated in some aspects, the research carried out shows that pvc waste is recyclable and its replacement by alternative materials could in many cases have a negative impact on the environment. the argument that the discouragement of the use of pvc in electrical and electronic equipment is justified by the dioxin emissions from outdoor combustion cannot therefore be fully accepted. this argument completely ignores the fact that the incineration of any kind of waste is an undesirable activity.
i was happy to vote for the directive on hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment in its compromise form. we all have a stake in protecting nature and public health, but we also need to keep a balance. in the current economic crisis, it is not wise to increase the financial burden on small businesses and consumers by imposing very strict regulations. i therefore appreciated that the interinstitutional group had entrusted the commission with the task of reviewing the original list of dangerous substances instead of immediately banning them, which would have a negative impact on smes and also on the union's socioeconomic situation.
i supported the joint resolution on acta, even though i voted differently from my group of meps, because i also think we need to get the commission to produce analyses that will dispel the last remaining questions about the impact of acta on european citizens and close the information gap created by the past reluctance to provide negotiated texts. the main issues are the opinion of the european data protection supervisor, impact studies on existing european legislation or assurances that the exceptions for internet service providers will remain intact. but i am very outraged that the agreement retains the ability to search the computers and other personal belongings of individual travelers at the border. i was also happy to support the epp resolution, which offered a very high-quality and balanced text, but without any major pressure on the commission before the important negotiations on the final form of the agreement.
in writing. − as a member of the delegation to the eu-moldova parliamentary cooperation committee, i welcome any step which leads or may lead to the consolidation of the political situation in the republic of moldova and to the improvement of the living conditions of its people. the recommendation we are voting on today, the implementation of which could strengthen a sound european neighbourhood policy of integration, could also be considered such a step. i agree with the rapporteur that the current crisis in the republic of moldova is a problem that needs to be resolved quickly and above all in a legal way. the very vague and misleading phrase 'european solution' should be deleted. the rapporteur seems to have in mind a solution which is in line with the agreements and document of the council of europe and with the generally accepted democratic rules. in any case, we must jointly firmly reject any form of external deliberate interference in the internal affairs of the republic of moldova. any other approach will only lead to an escalation of tensions in the republic of moldova and not to a positive solution to the problems that the eu has also contributed to by its unbalanced approach in the past.
in writing. i appreciate that the most controversial provisions, such as third party liability, mandatory checks on storage devices when crossing borders or mandatory use of the 'digital guillotine', have been eliminated from the final version of this international agreement. while i welcome the fact that there is an effort to make intellectual property rights more protected, i am not entirely sure that the form of agreement that is being presented to us is entirely optimal. i am very sorry that the contracting parties are not countries like china or russia. the fact that the agreement places more emphasis on the protection of rights holders than on the protection of authors themselves raises concerns in my mind as to whether the agreement will really serve to protect intellectual property rights in general and not just the rights of a narrow group of entities based mainly in the us. the fact that the agreement has not been able to enshrine the protection of geographical indications only confirms my concern. the way in which the agreement was negotiated probably does not need to be commented on again, but i believe that the similarly opaque negotiating method chosen in the case of acta will not be repeated and that parliament will be informed in good time of the negotiating process and the content of the agreement when other agreements of a similar nature are negotiated.
in writing. the protection against counterfeiting and the protection of intellectual property are important elements on an international scale, the importance of which is beyond doubt. however, the proposed acta does not clearly demonstrate the importance of a high-quality and, in particular, balanced protection of the interests of all eu citizens. this long-standing agreement lacked transparency at various stages of preparation and was more favoured in its context by one group. although the agreement also declares, inter alia, the strengthening of the controls of the competent authorities over goods in transit and export procedures or ex officio action, the question arises here of the scope and other possibilities of enforcement of the agreement, since its effectiveness without negotiated ratification by a number of major world countries seems questionable. as regards the protection of intellectual property itself, it should be noted that there are now a number of recognised, functioning and sufficiently validated instruments, institutions and contractual arrangements worldwide which currently provide protection against counterfeiting. the assurance that there is no need to amend the acquis communautaire also merits a more thorough legal analysis of the importance and character of a document of that kind.
for the ecr group. although i am a signatory to the resolution for the upcoming climate conference, i have some critical remarks and reservations about our own resolution. you know, i'm glad that the optimism that we've always had before every conference in the past, that we've always given out here and spread out into the world, and then turned into a lot of skepticism, is not so full this time. i am very pleased that we realize that there will be no global agreement at this conference either, and we all know in this room that without a global agreement, europe alone, even if it raises its own ambitious plans to 100%, has not the slightest impact on global climate change. the blind tightening of our standards may in effect threaten europe, and i confess that i cannot agree to the covert introduction of european taxes under the banner of combating climate change. and not to be just negative, i see a great positive in promoting cooperation with developing countries, and especially in the protection of drinking water, and in our efforts to ensure access to drinking water for all people, especially in developing countries. despite my critical reservations, i have no intention of withdrawing my signature and i hope that some further movement will take place at the upcoming conference.
for the group gue/ngl when you say ukraine, the average european citizen picks up the image of klitschko, a boxer who beats his opponents in a playful way. however, ukraine is also economically important and many european union and balkan countries are dependent on transport routes that supply central asian and siberian oil and gas through their territories. it is clear that the eastern partnership is the most important player. i therefore welcome the improvement in relations with russia and the outcome of the eu-ukraine summit. in many european union countries, ukrainians form a significant part of the foreign workforce and trade between ukraine and the european union is developing dynamically. the country's main problems are similar to those of many european union countries: corruption, unfavourable visa regimes, incompatible legislation. it should be noted that the municipal elections were technically held without any major reservations according to the observers. the resolution proposed across the political spectrum is a balanced compromise, and while i may have reservations about some of the details, the gue/ngl club will support it.
i'm deeply involved in the new strategy on international trade. as a member of the inta committee in the past, i have patiently called for our trade policy to be a tool to promote fair competition, a key to maintaining european values and commercial interests in the global market. pushing for higher social and environmental standards is the way to eliminate injustice and inequality in international trade competition. for six years, i have called for all trade agreements to have human rights clauses, whose observance would be conditional on preferential policies. finally, today the european parliament, through this report, is asking the commission to submit a proposal for a regulation to ban the import into the european union of goods produced using modern forms of slavery, forced labour and in countries where basic human rights standards are violated. and it has to be both the acp countries and china. i thank and congratulate mrs saïfi on this document, which is an example of parliament moving forward.
for the ecr group. i would like to go back to what my colleague, mr sturdy, said. anti-dumping is a good servant, but a bad master. just as it serves to protect european businesses and the european economy from unfair competition and unfair trade practices, it can also be misused in favour of protectionism, in favour of protectionism and, unfortunately, to close european markets to imports from third countries. i therefore appeal to the commission, i appeal to you, commissioner, to prevent such a development and to avoid that anti-dumping measures are misused in the interests of protectionism and in the interests of closing the european market and the european economy to the rest of the world. i think it would not do us any good, i think a closed fortress europe would not do anyone any good, and i think it can always be shown in history that if europe was open and cooperated with the rest of the world, it only prospered from that. please keep that in mind.
the ombudsman's annual report is a good example of how we should present our work to the public. the message is clear, concise and to the point. i appreciate your efforts and your efforts and i would like to personally pay you back. however, at the same time, i would like to note here that i see a systemic problem in the ombudsman's work. the problem is awareness. let us admit that the european union as an international organisation is largely incomprehensible, not only in terms of its funding but also in terms of its powers, institutions, decision-making processes, policies and legislation. i mean, incomprehensible to the average citizen. the same is logically true of the ombudsman's office. i have no doubt that if we were to survey european citizens about the role of the european ombudsman, his work and his activities, we would unfortunately find that citizens perceive him as someone who is far away and in many cases does not even know that he exists. the facts are pretty clear. the vast majority of the complaints sent by my fellow citizens from the czech republic did not fall within the competence of the european ombudsman. the situation is different in other member states. when the 2008 report was discussed here, we all called for greater awareness. large-scale information campaigns were designed, the launch of websites was praised. i myself, however, made a fictitious attempt to file a complaint on your website yesterday. i must say that the interactive guide is far too complex and, frankly, incomprehensible to the average citizen. the complaint form itself is equally complex. it reminds me a little of the tax returns back home, which without a tax consultant, the average citizen is unable to fill out properly. in fact, your site's citizens are more likely to be discouraged from filing complaints. i therefore call for simplification. what i also consider to be extremely important is to reduce the time it takes to deal with cases. after all, we know that if someone complains, it is of the utmost importance from a trust point of view that the complaint is dealt with as quickly as possible and that the complainant receives a response as soon as possible. and if the matter is not within the competence of the body to which the complaint is addressed, the complaint should be referred directly to the national or regional ombudsmen who have the relevant competence. ladies and gentlemen, too much communication kills information. too much information is killing european citizens. in my view, the ombudsman's priority should not be to tackle but rather to prevent maladministration. i therefore consider it essential that these institutions are not misused for media campaigns and that their powers are not extended. after his election as ombudsman, diamandouros stated: 'i will continue to work to improve the quality of the european union's administration.' so i'd like to finish by asking what systemic problem, what specifically you've managed to improve and what you plan to focus on in the coming year. and in the search for systemic solutions, i wish you much success.
mr president, i know everybody wants to vote, but i would just like, on behalf of all the co-signatories – ms brepoels, mr buşoi, mr lehne, mr peterle and myself – to thank all of you who have supported our written declaration on the fight against colorectal cancer. we have reached a majority one month before the deadline. this shows the importance of this issue, and we can promise you that this was not a one-off but part of a larger move targeting the eu and member states. colleagues, thank you for your support.
i voted in favour of the report on the energy strategy, which sets out the directions for future energy policy in the european union. i would like to emphasise the recognition of the role of nuclear energy in the current and future energy mix of the european union, including the implicit recognition of the need to extend the life of existing sources. the strategy can be seen as balanced from the point of view of the individual sources, although not once does it mention, in my view, the important role of coal in the combustion of modernised power stations. without coal as a stable primary resource able to respond flexibly to the sudden increase in energy demand, it is difficult to imagine increasing the energy security and independence of the european union. the weakness is too general and the absence of accompanying legislation. the concrete and practical form of the strategy will also be strongly influenced by the forthcoming action plan for a low-carbon economy by 2050, which is due to be published early next year.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the energy strategy, which sets out the directions for future eu energy policy. i would like to highlight the recognition of the role of nuclear energy in the eu's current and future energy mix, including the implicit recognition of the need to extend the life of existing sources. the strategy can be seen as fairly balanced from the point of view of the different sources, although not once does it mention, in my view, the important role of coal burned in modernised power stations. without coal as a stable primary resource able to respond flexibly to a sudden increase in energy demand, it is difficult to imagine increasing the eu's energy security and independence. on the contrary, its weakness is its too general nature and the absence of accompanying legislation. the concrete and practical form of the strategy will also be strongly influenced by the forthcoming action plan for a low-carbon economy by 2050, which is due to be published early next year. in view of the still-existing lack of regional markets and market-coupling, i consider the objective of creating a single internal market by 2015 to be very ambitious, especially when taking into account that the european commission, in my view, does not sufficiently monitor the proper implementation of current european energy legislation in all member states. the european commission has also appropriately integrated into the energy strategy the so-called infrastructure package, which can be expected to facilitate the construction of electricity networks throughout the eu.
i would like to draw attention in my speech to the desire expressed by the people's republic of china for harmonious relations between all 56 ethnic minorities within its territory. in this context, i am convinced that the preservation of the tibetan language, one of the four oldest and most original asian languages, which is one of the cornerstones of tibetan identity, culture and religion, and which, together with tibetan culture as a whole, is also an irreplaceable part of the world's cultural heritage and a testimony to a historically rich civilization, should be promoted. i believe that china will consistently apply article 4 of the constitution of the people's republic of china and article 10 of the law on national autonomy of regions, which guarantee the freedom of all peoples to use and develop their own spoken and written languages. i believe that every ethnic minority has the right to preserve its own language and script. a fair bilingual education system will help to improve cooperation and understanding, especially if tibetans learn chinese and the han living in tibetan areas are encouraged to learn tibetan at the same time. since the joint motion for a resolution contained all the points i have mentioned, i decided to support it.
the next item is the joint debate on– the recommendation from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the draft council decision concerning the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and georgia on the facilitation of the issuance of visas (11324/2010 – c7-0391/2010 – 2010/0106(nle)) (rapporteur: nathalie griesbeck) (a7-0345/2010),– the recommendation from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and georgia on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation (15507/2010 – c7-0392/2010 – 2010/0108(nle)) (rapporteur: nathalie griesbeck) (a7-0346/2010),– the oral question to the commission on implementation of the eu-russia visa facilitation agreement by kristiina ojuland, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o-0140/2010 – b7-0568/2010), – the oral question to the commission on implementation of the eu-russia visa facilitation agreement by manfred weber, simon busuttil, elmar brok, alojz peterle, on behalf of the group of the european people’s party (o-0172/2010 – b7-0656/2010),– the oral question to the commission on concerns about the correct application of the eu visa liberalisation scheme in serbia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, by simon busuttil, manfred weber, anna maria corazza bildt, monika hohlmeier, on behalf of the group of the european people’s party (o-0181/2010 – b7-0654/2010).
in writing. as regards the subject area of this debate (visas), i would like to comment on two sub-issues which i consider to be the most important. both problems are highly sensitive to the successful implementation of the european good neighbour policy. the first is the issue of the implementation of the eu-russia visa facilitation agreement. i think it is not appropriate to criticise only - from the point of view of an overall assessment of how this agreement works - some of the measures that russia has unfortunately had to apply to citizens coming from eu countries. the overall security situation in that country requires this and such measures, such as the registration obligation, do not in themselves complicate the visa facilitation. the second issue is alleged concerns about the correct application of the eu visa waiver system in serbia, macedonia and montenegro. the concerns are said to be triggered by the increase in asylum applications from citizens of these countries and measures are proposed against the relevant national authorities as a solution. that's misleading and out of line. the overall political situation in the balkans has been strongly influenced by nato and the eu for many years. first of all, let these organizations promote such measures and policies in the balkans that will not force people to leave this hard-hit region.
in writing. the report on the good governance of regional policy reinforces the powers of regional and local authorities in the implementation of eu policies. parliament has long supported greater involvement of public authorities at a lower level than national level in the design of community policies. the principle of partnership, as defined in the committee of the regions' white paper on multi-level governance, needs to be strengthened from an early stage of the eu negotiations. the report supports further simplification of legislative and non-legislative provisions. however, it must be stressed that, in particular, some member states and their public administrations often contribute to an administrative burden which is not required by community rules. here further correction is necessary. the rules of the grant programmes should be simplified in order to make the procedures more understandable and not to discourage potential beneficiaries from participating in projects. the implementation and financing of programmes shows a high rate of error in the expenditure reimbursed (12%) the highest percentage of errors is still reported in the area of public procurement and so-called ineligible costs. the ec's oversight is inadequate and it is clear that the ec cannot form a control system at all national levels. it is essential that the commission's control role be maintained and strengthened at the start of programmes, while during the programmes it is more devolved to the member states and their regional and local authorities.
i welcome the report on the impact of advertising on consumer behaviour. since it does not speak of regulating gambling advertising, let me remind you that online betting and advertising in particular know no borders and are easily accessible to minors. seven member states have banned online gambling, but it is still available. i believe that there is a need to focus on preventing the negative consequences of gambling addiction. we need to enforce a european union-wide ban on gambling advertising targeted at children and young people, because exposing children to the influence of online gambling advertising is simply the same moral hazard to their fate as exposing them to unlimited advertising for alcohol, cigarettes or other addictive substances. moreover, gambling venues and advertising are not restricted outside the internet, so that gambling venues and advertising are often located in close proximity to schools. i hope that today's debate will give the commission a new impetus to propose a ban on gambling advertising in the unquestionable public interest.
for the ecr group. i consider that the improvement of the legislation on the fight against trafficking in human beings is extremely important, alongside the european protection order, because it represents another step towards protecting women and children in particular from violence. much of the text is devoted to protecting child victims and helping those victims who are the most vulnerable part of the population. i am glad that a compromise has been reached with the council and that this text is sufficiently strong and at the same time allows the key provisions of substantive criminal law to be preserved. i believe that, for example, the criminalisation of clients of trafficked persons at european level would be very problematic. i would therefore like to thank you for this directive, which deserves our full support.
all the reports we are discussing this morning have one thing in common: the protection of fundamental human rights in the european union and a common european approach to this matter. it is almost unbelievable that in the european union of the 21st century, several hundred thousand people are victims of trafficking in human beings every year, mostly women and children. sadly, even today this problem is highly topical, and statistics do not indicate that it is on the decline. on the contrary, i did. the perpetrators of this serious crime make astronomical profits from human trafficking, estimated at up to $32 billion a year. the protection of human rights and human dignity must be an unquestionable priority in our work and the joint action of the member states is essential. i therefore fully support the proposal for a directive which introduces additional instruments to combat this form of crime, more effective protection for victims and a more coordinated approach at eu level, in addition to the existing legislation.
i would like to comment on the vote on the european protection order because i personally consider this instrument to be extremely important. i can sympathize with the women who are the primary target of the order and who find themselves in a situation where they are literally being persecuted, wanting to move and needing protection. i therefore regret that the text on which we voted is not based on a legal basis that is reliable. but i firmly believe that the text can be revised, and i believe that this certainly good idea will be fulfilled. but for the moment, i have abstained for these reasons.
in writing. from the recommendation on the creation of an eu rapid response instrument, i promise to increase the pressure to improve the effectiveness of the eu's existing capacity to respond to disasters, whether natural or man-made. i consider the existing community civil protection mechanism to be an important but not sufficient step towards a genuinely accessible and maximally effective civil protection mechanism. the limits of the current civil protection mechanism were demonstrated, for example, in the response to this year's crisis in haiti, which was relatively flexible and extensive, but on the other hand, lacked efficiency, coordination and visibility. it was also unclear who should be in charge of coordinating the overall eu action. given the scale of the crisis, eu assistance was finally coordinated by hr ashton, in close cooperation with commissioner georgieva, responsible for humanitarian aid, civil protection and international cooperation. i see room to deepen the eu's accessibility in disaster management in particular in the creation of a still available civilian capacity that will operate independently of military structures and in the creation of research budgets and industrial potential (e.g. satellite imaging in the gmes programme).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european protection order because it aims to improve the legal position of victims of violent crime. in particular, persons who are victims of repeated violence by their relatives, persons who are victims of gender-based violence or persons who are victims of other types of crime in a member state of which they are not nationals or residents need specific legal protection. i have agreed to amendments which limit the grounds for refusing to recognise or reject a european protection order, set a 20-day deadline for the execution of the order or clarify the situation where a victim moves from one member state to another. i am glad that the problem of the legal basis, which has been particularly contentious between the council and the commission, has been clarified. i believe that the adoption of the amendment, which adds recognition of judicial decisions to cooperation in criminal matters, has removed some of the tensions between the civil and criminal aspects of the european protection order. this was in response to the commission's objection that the european protection order legislation infringed its right of exclusive initiative in civil matters.
i would like to make it clear again today that the european union needs a proper budget for next year. there's no reason for us to be in a budget cut. there is also no reason for the european parliament to make the approval of the budget conditional on any additional requirements. all european countries are now going through a difficult economic period and need certainty in the form of sound budgets, both at national and european level. this is the kind of certainty that households, businesses, and cities and towns need. i can therefore say here on behalf of myself and my colleagues from the civic democratic party of the czech republic and from the group of european conservatives and reformists that we will support the compromise reached between the commission, the council and parliament in the vote tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (wednesday, 15 december 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the council and commission statements on the outcome of the climate change conference in cancún.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. energy efficiency is one of the key priorities of the europe 2020 strategy and the energy strategy for europe 2011-2020, which makes the report very relevant and timely, also in relation to the recent cancun summit. the report builds on the 2006 energy efficiency action plan and calls on the commission to update the plan, revise the energy services directive and also set a binding target of 20% improvement in energy efficiency by 2020. the report discusses the arguments for the benefits of greater energy efficiency: social (the potential to create 1 million jobs or reduce energy poverty in the eu), economic (potential energy savings of up to eur 100 billion), strategic (preserving the competitiveness of european businesses through energy savings) and, last but not least, security (increased energy self-sufficiency of the eu). the report makes recommendations on energy infrastructure, urban and building development, information and communication products, transport, incentives and financing. i consider the role of financial resources (structural funds, elena instrument of the european investment bank, national energy efficiency funds, etc.) in the financing of energy efficiency projects to be particularly important. overall, i believe that the report presented by mr bendt bendtsen contains a precise analysis of the issues as well as relevant recommendations in the field of energy efficiency and therefore i recommend that it be approved as proposed.
in writing. although the european union has set itself targets for a 20% reduction in energy consumption by 2020, unlike the targets for emission reductions and renewable energy, these are not binding. member states are therefore not sufficiently motivated to achieve the best possible energy efficiency performance. technologies and practices to improve energy efficiency already exist, but without binding targets, these projects will not be adequately funded and implemented. but if the eu were to meet its 2020 targets, it would save up to €78 billion a year. in addition to reducing dependence on oil and gas imports and thus increasing security of energy supply, this would also result in significant financial savings for households. i think this is very important because there are more and more people living in what is called energy poverty, where the majority of the household budget is consumed by electricity and gas bills. however, if binding targets are set, households could save up to eur 1000 per year, according to the european commission. in addition to greater competitiveness, improved energy efficiency would support the creation of permanent jobs and at the same time reduce co2 emissions by 780 million tonnes, which is more than the kyoto protocol requires.
i personally supported from the outset the commission's original proposal to repeal all eight directives without compensation. i believe that the commission's proposal was a good example of the right way to go about simplifying european law and promoting a 'better regulation' approach. we should not seek to harmonize all areas at all costs. we should also think about other regulatory instruments than eu legislation, such as international standards. and then to use these alternative regulatory tools where it is more efficient to use them. in introducing metrology regulations, i prefer a voluntary system of mutual recognition of national regulations based on international standards to top-down central harmonisation. i am so sorry that parliament, along with some member states, does not support this exceptional and liberal approach of the commission and prefers a conservative approach to removing excessive regulation. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her efforts to find a compromise solution. i appreciate her personal commitment, which has kept the commission's proposal on the table and has succeeded in achieving at least part of its original intention.
the eight outdated measuring instruments directives are not at first sight interesting political topics, but in fact their repeal represents a concrete fulfilment of the principle of subsidiarity and at the same time a pursuit of 'better regulation'. in the field of metrology, international agreements are already in place, which have been necessitated by the globalisation of science and trade, and so any harmonisation at european level may not be necessary. i appreciate the responsible approach of the rapporteur, mrs anja weisgerber, who has decided to support the commission's proposal to repeal the directives altogether, but on the other hand to leave time for the member states' competent metrology authorities to carry out an impact assessment for national legislation on seven of them. this solution, which we are sure to vote on tomorrow, will also be an interesting test for future directives, to see whether mutual recognition of rules at national level is sufficient and does not lead to legal uncertainty and is therefore more advantageous than amendment or complete harmonisation. i myself would rather see the member states preferring harmonisation. i congratulate the rapporteur on achieving absolute support in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and at the same time thank her for negotiating a position of agreement with the council.
the recommendation of the commission's scientific committee on the limits for the release of the six chemicals is not clear, and this is what has led to this question. i agree with the six experts who conducted the evaluation that they cannot conclusively prove that children are harmed by these substances because they use water rather than lactose-containing baby saliva in their exposure simulation. but we cannot leave the parents of young children in the dark about the possible health risks of plastic toys, and so i ask whether the commission intends to continue its research, for example by launching experiments on mice, as it did in the case of the study of the effects of bisphenol, which is released from plastic bottles for infants and which will now be banned throughout the european union from march. and let me ask you two more specific questions. does the commission agree with the proposal of the scientific committee, which recommends assuming a child exposure of 50% of the adult exposure? and furthermore, given that the scientific committee recommends reducing cadmium levels from 0.5 micrograms per kilogram of a child's weight per day to 0.36 micrograms, may i ask how the commission will translate this conclusion and also the other findings of the committee into concrete measures as regards limits for toys but also other consumer goods. commissioner, we really need to know the time horizon for these measures to know where the parents of the children are actually going.
in writing. the lisbon treaty established a new institution of the european citizens' initiative, which had been missing in the decision-making process of the european union. i personally welcome this new option, which reflects the frequent criticism of the eu's functioning as a democratic deficit in decision-making. this new tool will enable eu citizens to turn directly to the commission to present a legislative proposal to tackle a problem, thereby deepening citizens' engagement with the eu institutions by addressing the often criticised democratic deficit in decision-making processes and involving citizens directly in decision-making. in my view, the european citizens' initiative brings the european institutions closer to the citizens and thus fulfils the principle of subsidiarity as a fundamental principle of the decision-making mechanisms of the european union. i would also like to mention the part of the opinion of the committee of the regions which points out the interest of the institution of the citizens' initiative among local and regional authorities, who could be involved in the process as organisers or promoters, as they are closest to the citizens of the european union. this is one of the many reasons why i support the introduction of the european citizens' initiative.
the creation of the conditions for the citizens' initiative has been a complex process of negotiating compromises and many debates both in the european parliament and with the commission and the council. the nonprofit sector was involved. the debate raised a number of issues, such as the preservation of the european dimension of the initiative, transparency, the way in which signatures were to be collected and other procedural issues. however, i consider the most important one to be the general approach to the citizens' initiative. if we have this new element, we must not be afraid to put it into practice and close the door to open debate. yes, there will be populist and hot topics, so the registration process of the initiative before the start of the signature collection will be very important, which will also assess the compliance of the proposals with the fundamental values of the european union. as the shadow rapporteur of the committee on culture and education, i welcome the compromise reached, in particular the reduction of the minimum number of countries to register an initiative to one quarter and the fact that the european parliament will play an active role in the public hearing of successful initiatives. i am of course of the opinion that elected representatives should also be able to participate fully in their organisation. i firmly believe that the european citizens' initiative will become a future expression of european civic responsibility.
in writing. − in accordance with the treaty of lisbon, member states may establish enhanced cooperation in the area of freedom, security and justice, which covers the issue of divorce and legal separation. the regulation defines enhanced cooperation between the member states (belgium, bulgaria, germany, spain, france, italy, latvia, luxembourg, hungary, malta, austria, portugal, romania and slovenia). the main aim is to eliminate discrimination on grounds of sex, to guarantee equal opportunities for both spouses and to take the best interests of the child into account. the spouses often 'compete' amongst themselves as to which of them will be the first to file a divorce petition with the court, with the aim of ensuring that the divorce proceedings are conducted in accordance with a legal system which better protects the interests of the party concerned. this regulation aims to enhance legal certainty for the couples concerned, while ensuring a predictable and flexible course of proceedings. i supported the regulation, even though it does not concern the czech republic, but i believe its introduction will be a good example for other member states, including the czech republic, to join it in the future and thus benefit from the experience of the pioneering member states.
in writing. − i represent the czech republic in the european parliament, which has not acceded to the enhanced cooperation mechanism in the area of harmonisation of conflict-of-law rules. this is mainly because the czech republic does not consider the draft regulation to be a measure necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market. it also considers that it is controversial from the point of view of the principle of subsidiarity, since the regulation does not have an added value that would justify interference with the national family law systems of the member states. the czech republic also considers the proposal to be contested from the point of view of the principle of proportionality, as the legal form of the regulation chosen is not an appropriate instrument for the unification of conflict-of-law rules in the field of international family law. however, i do not intend to prevent by my vote those states which have chosen the enhanced cooperation mechanism as a tool to unify conflicting norms as regards the determination of the law applicable in matrimonial matters from taking this path.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation establishing enhanced cooperation in the area of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation helps to address the often complex and sensitive issues associated with divorce proceedings for marriages validly concluded between persons of different nationalities. it allows those divorced couples to better orient themselves and to choose the applicable law. in its initial phase, it also significantly increases their legal certainty. the application of the enhanced cooperation mechanism, where the legislation adopted is outside the acquis communautaire, is in this case a step enabling the participating member states to deal with some of the legislative problems of international cooperation associated with the dissolution of such marriages. it gives the other member states not participating at this stage a sufficient opportunity to evaluate, after a period of time, the positive and negative effects resulting from this draft regulation and to consider the possibility of joining. in the czech republic, foreign law has already been applied for many years in duly justified cases in the context of the settlement of the abovementioned divorce proceedings.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of centralised supervision of credit rating agencies. i agree with the overall content of mr gauzèse's report on the proposal for a regulation introducing a model of centralised supervision of credit rating agencies through esma, the european securities and markets authority, in particular in view of the significant mobility of credit rating agencies' services and their immediate impact on financial markets. centralised supervision can contribute to greater transparency in the world of credit rating agencies and can foster greater competition between individual agencies. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report. however, i am concerned that the proposed period for making all changes relating to the transfer of competence and responsibilities from the competent supervisory authorities in the member states to esma is insufficient and should be extended.
in writing. while i agree with many of the insights and suggestions that appear in the material, i cannot identify with some of the theories and suggestions that tend to reinforce the state under the guise of consumer protection. in my opinion, the report should put more emphasis on educating users on how to behave online, how to secure their computer and how and to whom to provide personal data. not that states should come up with technical tools that should be implemented under the pretext of protecting citizens. the computer is vulnerable just like any other electronic device connected to the internet via electronic communications networks. the task of politicians and states should be to educate citizens to understand that privacy needs to be protected, that just as they lock and secure their homes, they need to be just as careful to protect their electronic devices that communicate with the world. another task for policymakers is to set strict penalties for misusing personal data or otherwise violating people's privacy. and it doesn't matter whether they do it online or otherwise.
in writing. in the document by mr juvina, i would like to emphasise in particular the issue of the protection of personal data on the internet. it is necessary to ensure effectively that consumers are informed in a clear and comprehensible manner about the collection, processing and use of their personal data. but rather than regulating the internet, i prefer the way of educating internet users and applying regulation or restrictions only in isolated cases. the introduction of censorship practices will only lead to the search for other, far more sophisticated fraudulent systems and solutions that will always be one step ahead of regulation. information and education activities and the involvement of the internet user in making more choices regarding the handling of his personal data are important. it is important that the commission initiates the preparation of information campaigns on the fundamental rights of consumers in the field of advertising, in particular as regards the use of personal data. i would also welcome the development of eu educational programmes to teach children and other vulnerable groups to understand the insidious nature of advertising. i also welcome the report's focus on protecting vulnerable groups of consumers and ensuring human dignity in advertising. advertising can effectively challenge and challenge stereotypes. it can be positive against racism, sexism, discrimination, etc. however, it can also contribute to negative outcomes, violence, addictions such as smoking and alcoholism, and eating disorders such as anorexia nervosa and bulimia. the report also points to other important aspects that need to be addressed. that's why i endorsed the report.
in writing. the energy efficiency report rightly calls for a greater emphasis on innovative systems such as smart grids or smart meters, a more flexible integration of renewable energy sources and a global heat production strategy. in this context, the policy objective of having 50% of households equipped with smart meters by 2015 and 80% by 2020 should be recalled. i am glad that the proposals for legislative measures on energy poverty were not passed and that instead a wording was adopted which clearly shows that member states are more capable of tackling energy poverty and that this is therefore a problem that should be tackled at member state level. improving energy efficiency should also help to enable the use of 15% of the erdf for energy efficiency projects, although i believe, on the other hand, that energy efficiency should be a horizontal european priority financed from sources other than the structural funds. i consider it a success to reject proposals for a pan-european energy or coal tax, which would only lead to higher energy prices and would hit particularly hard on low-income groups. at the same time, i am of the opinion that energy efficiency objectives should not be legally binding and that the general conditionality of the structural funds to energy efficiency criteria should not be introduced.
the designation of 'european cultural heritage' is undoubtedly a good initiative and a continuation of an already functioning intergovernmental project from 2006. it aims to contribute to the formation of a common european identity, to increase interest in and value for the european union. the concept of 'cultural heritage' is very broad, and that is good. i am very pleased that the report also adopted the amendment to include industrial heritage in this category. industry is an important part of europe's shared history europe was the cradle of the industrial revolution in the 19th century, and the european union's origins are linked to the founding of the european coal and steel community. but it also has a history of civil and social rights. one of the areas of expected benefits of the 'european cultural heritage' designation is also the area of tourism. i believe that this is an opportunity to use the heritage of a common european history to develop tourism in regions that are not traditional tourist destinations. this kind of heritage, in my view, is unjustly neglected and its potential needs only to be discovered and exploited. i therefore welcome and support the report very much and would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs paliadeli, in this connection.
i have received four motions for resolutionssee minutes.tabled in accordance with rule 115(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly.
mr nicholson, i am sorry, it was not a point of order. as i said, the debate is closed. you had the opportunity to raise your concerns before we closed the debate.
it should always be like this. thank you very much. (the sitting was suspended at 11.40 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon) written declarations (article 149) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
